This paper is included in the Proceedings of the 
31st USENIX Security Symposium.
August 10–12, 2022 • Boston, MA, USA
978-1-939133-31-1
Open access to the Proceedings of the 
31st USENIX Security Symposium is 
sponsored by USENIX.
Experimenting with Collaborative zk-SNARKs: 
Zero-Knowledge Proofs for Distributed Secrets
Alex Ozdemir and Dan Boneh, Stanford University
https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity22/presentation/ozdemir

Experimenting with Collaborative zk-SNARKs:
Zero-Knowledge Proofs for Distributed Secrets
Alex Ozdemir
Dan Boneh
{aozdemir,dabo}@cs.stanford.edu
Abstract
A zk-SNARK is a powerful cryptographic primitive that pro-
vides a succinct and efficiently checkable argument that the
prover has a witness to a public NP statement, without reveal-
ing the witness. However, in their native form, zk-SNARKs
only apply to a secret witness held by a single party. In prac-
tice, a collection of parties often need to prove a statement
where the secret witness is distributed or shared among them.
We implement and experiment with collaborative zk-
SNARKs: proofs over the secrets of multiple, mutually dis-
trusting parties. We construct these by lifting conventional
zk-SNARKs into secure protocols among N provers to jointly
produce a single proof over the distributed witness. We op-
timize the proof generation algorithm in pairing-based zk-
SNARKs so that algebraic techniques for multiparty compu-
tation (MPC) yield efficient proof generation protocols. For
some zk-SNARKs, optimization is more challenging. This
suggests MPC “friendliness” as an additional criterion for
evaluating zk-SNARKs.
We implement three collaborative proofs and evaluate the
concrete cost of proof generation. We find that over a 3Gb/s
link, security against a malicious minority of provers can
be achieved with approximately the same runtime as a single
prover. Security against N −1 malicious provers requires only
a 2× slowdown. This efficiency is unusual since most com-
putations slow down by orders of magnitude when securely
distributed. This efficiency means that most applications that
can tolerate the cost of a single-prover proof should also be
able to tolerate the cost of a collaborative proof.
1
Introduction
Zero-knowledge succinct, non-interactive arguments of
knowledge (zk-SNARKs) [23] are publicly verifiable proofs
that the prover has secret data (a witness) that satisfies a cer-
tain public NP relation. The proof reveals nothing about the
secret data other than its validity. zk-SNARKs have two key
strengths. First, they are very general: there are zk-SNARKs
that can prove any relation expressible as a bounded size
arithmetic circuit. Second, they can be easily verified: proof
size and verification time are sublinear in the amount of se-
cret data (typically kilobytes and tens of milliseconds), and
verification can be performed by anyone. However, there are
two key limitations. First, generating the proof is expensive:
typically thousands of times slower than checking the relation
directly [91, 98, 106, 108]. Second, the secret data must be
P(w)
V
πw
(a) A conventional zk-SNARK
with one party’s secret w.
P1(w1)
P2(w2)
P3(w3)
V
π⃗w
(b) A collaborative zk-SNARK
with multiple parties’ secrets.
Figure 1: Conventional and collaborative zk-SNARKs
held by a single party: generating a proof when the secret data
is distributed among multiple parties is not natively supported.
Being limited to secrets that are held by a single party bars
some applications. We describe some examples in Section 2.
Collaborative zk-SNARKs
In this work we generalize zk-
SNARKs to collaborative zk-SNARKs. That is, we generalize
from public proofs about a secret w held by a single party,
to public proofs about a secret ⃗w = (w1,...,wN) distributed
among N parties, where party i has wi, for i ∈[N], as in Fig. 1.
The proof generation process should reveal nothing new about
⃗w to a coalition of parties, other than the validity of ⃗w.
A natural approach for constructing a collaborative zk-
SNARK is as follows: start from a standard single-prover zk-
SNARK, and run its proof generation algorithm as a secure
multi-party computation (MPC) [49] among the N provers.
Recall that, informally, MPC allows N parties to compute a
public function f : X N →Y over secret inputs x1,...xN ∈
X , where party i has xi for all i ∈[N]. At the end of the
protocol, all parties learn the output y ←f(x1,...xN), but
learn nothing else about each others’ inputs. MPC protocols
work for any function f that can be expressed as a reasonable
size arithmetic circuit.
By taking the MPC function f to be the circuit represen-
tation of a zk-SNARK proof generator, the provers can use
a generic MPC protocol to jointly generate the desired proof
without revealing anything else about their secret inputs. One
technicality is that proof generation is a randomized algo-
rithm, but this is easily supported by MPC protocols.
Another issue is that any prover can choose not to partic-
ipate in the MPC, thereby preventing the proof from being
generated. Hence, a collaborative zk-SNARK only makes
sense in a setting where all N provers want to jointly generate
USENIX Association
31st USENIX Security Symposium    4291

a valid proof. This lets us use a slightly simpler kind of MPC,
called MPC-with-aborts [49], that does not guarantee output
delivery. Regardless, using an MPC protocol to generate a
proof ensures that no matter what a malicious set of provers
does, it learns nothing about the secret data of the honest
provers, other than the validity of the witness tuple ⃗w.
As we will see, a direct application of this approach leads to
very poor performance. Generating a standalone zk-SNARK
proof is already computationally expensive. Running this en-
tire process naively through a general purpose MPC protocol
would likely result in unacceptable proving time. In partic-
ular, since MPC protocols and zk-SNARK provers are each
thousands of times slower than their underlying functionality,
their composition is likely to be millions of times slower.
Instead, we show that for some zk-SNARKs, proof genera-
tion lends itself to a very efficient MPC protocol. For these
zk-SNARKs it is quite efficient to generate the proof dis-
tributively, without the provers leaking undesired information
about their secrets to the public or to each other. This sug-
gests MPC “friendliness” of the prover as a new criterion for
evaluating zk-SNARKs. As we will see, some zk-SNARKs
are MPC-friendly, while others are less so.
Our techniques
We design optimized multi-prover proto-
cols by using three ideas:
(1) Building on previous and new techniques, we apply MPC
techniques based on secret-sharing directly to elliptic
curves, making secure, distributed curve operations cheap.
(2) By using secret sharing over curve points we streamline
key prover bottlenecks, such as multi-scalar multiplica-
tion, polynomial division, and Fourier transform.
(3) We employ an optimized MPC protocol for comput-
ing sequences of partial products. In particular, for field
elements x1,...,xn we use an efficient MPC protocol
from [4] to compute p j := ∏j
i=1 xi for all j ∈{1,...,n}.
Ultimately, we adapt four zk-SNARKs to multiple provers:
Groth16 [66], Plonk [53], Marlin [40], and Fractal [41].
Our results
• First, we formally define collaborative zk-SNARKs (§4).
• Next, we design four collaborative proofs by adapting four
existing zk-SNARK provers into MPC protocols that ex-
ploit the algebraic nature of these provers: (§5):
−Groth16 and Marlin give very efficient protocols.
−Plonk results in a protocol with more communication
between the provers, due to the larger number of multi-
plications during proof generation.
−Fractal can achieve MPC efficiency, but at the expense
of increasing the proof size and verification time by a
factor of N.
This list classifies these zk-SNARKs by their MPC-
friendliness, from most to least friendly. Some of these
constructions depend on a trusted setup.
• We implement our Groth16-, Marlin-, and Plonk-based pro-
tocols. We do so by lifting a single-prover code base called
arkworks [48] and making it support multiple provers. The
key implementation technique is to replace arkworks’ low
level implementation of fields and curves with secret shares
that implement multi-party protocols for these types (§6).
• Finally, we demonstrate the concrete efficiency of our con-
structions. We find that with a 3Gb/s link, protocols secure
against a malicious minority of provers run in essentially
the same time as a single-party proof. Protocols secure
against a malicious majority run in twice the time of a
single-party prover (§7). These results are unusual in that
MPC typically incurs a significant overhead. These results
also show that collaborative proofs are practical.
• Communication costs dominate in low-capacity networks.
We conclude with a conditional Ω(n) lower bound on
the communication needed to build a collaborative proof,
where n is the “size” of the relation.
Publicly auditable MPC
Collaborative zk-SNARKs give
an efficient construction for a cryptographic primitive called
publicly auditable MPC (PA-MPC) [7]. A PA-MPC proto-
col is an MPC that also produces a proof by which the pub-
lic can verify that the computation was performed correctly
with respect to commitments to the inputs. Classic PA-MPC
constructions [7] have linear size proofs. Collaborative zk-
SNARKs yield PA-MPC with constant size proofs. We discuss
this further in Sections 2 and 4.1. Concurrent work [75] builds
on a similar idea.
2
Example applications
Collaborative zk-SNARKs come up naturally in many set-
tings, both for real world applications and for conceptual ones.
In this section we briefly survey a number of situations where
they are needed.
(1) Healthcare statistics
Healthcare providers provide ser-
vices (medication, operations, etc.) to millions of patients
every day. Their actions concern the intimate details of indi-
viduals’ well-being and must not be publicly revealed. Yet,
the public benefits from understanding costs in the healthcare
system, in aggregate. For example, a recent investigation re-
vealed that many hospitals routinely charge uninsured patients
the highest rates [50].
The challenge is to compute aggregate statistics over sen-
sitive data in a fashion that certifies the accuracy of the ag-
gregates, despite the participants’ incentives to omit data or
mis-aggregate. This problem is not unique to healthcare; it
also arises for criminal justice statistics [51].
Collaborative proofs yield a clean solution. First, every
healthcare provider publishes a short Merkle commitment to
the list of services that it provided. Second, regulators can
request aggregate statistics over the set of services provided
by all healthcare providers. The requested statistic is defined
by an arithmetic circuit that computes the statistic. Third,
4292    31st USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

providers can compute the aggregate statistic via an MPC
among the providers, and publish a collaborative proof that
the claimed result is consistent with all of their local com-
mitments. This protects both the privacy of patient data and
ensures the integrity of the aggregate.
The Merkle commitments to the underlying data are crucial
for integrity. If at a later time there is a dispute over the
accuracy of the aggregate statistic, a forensics investigator can
request the providers to open their local Merkle commitments.
A provider that committed to incorrect data will immediately
be caught and penalized, and this provides a strong incentive
for providers to commit to accurate data (refusing to open a
commitment could similarly carry a penalty). Patients are also
incentivized to check (via a Merkle proof) that the provider
accurately committed to the service they received.
Overall, the collaborative proof that the computed aggre-
gate is consistent with the committed data ensures accuracy
of the aggregate while maintaining data privacy.
(2) Computing credit scores
The three US credit bureaus
collect financial information from many institutions and use
that data to compute a credit score for all US individuals.
Credit scores are used to make credit related decisions such
as who gets a loan. When a credit bureau is hacked [47],
everyone’s information is exposed.
Collaborative proofs provide a very different solution for
computing credit scores. Let A1,...,AN be N institutions
whose data is used to compute a person’s credit score. Each
Ai could publish a short Merkle commitment to the entirety
of its local dataset. When Alice needs her credit score, the N
institutions engage in an MPC to compute her score based
on their local data, and collaboratively construct a proof that
the score is consistent with the public commitments. Alice is
given her score s and the short collaborative proof π. She can
present (s,π) to a lender, who can validate π with respect to
the public commitments to ensure that Alice’s score is correct.
Ai’s commitment to its local data ensures that if there is
a dispute over Alice’s credit score, her leaves of the Merkle
commitment can be opened. If an incorrect credit score is
computed, there is enough information to identify the cause.
This is a more satisfying guarantee than simply asking the
institutions to certify the computed credit score by signing it.
An example. Consider a lender that is reviewing a loan appli-
cation. The lender wants to know the sum of the applicant’s
credits and debits with the banks where the applicant has an
account. The applicant could request a collaborative proof
from its banks to prove that the difference between its debits
(assets) and its credits (debts) is larger than some threshold T.
In Section 7 we evaluate the time required to build this proof.
(3) Private audits of multiple parties
The global financial
system can be modeled as a transaction graph: every account
is a node, and there is an edge from u to v if account u issued
a payment to account v. Financial regulators often need to
answer the following question: did account u at Bank A pay
account v at Bank B, either directly or via intermediate ac-
counts? If the entire graph were stored at a single location
this would be easy to answer: the entity that holds the graph
could commit to the graph and provide a succinct proof that
there is no chain of transactions u →a1 →··· →aℓ→v.
In reality, the transaction graph is distributed and siloed
across a number of institutions. Each financial institution only
sees the portion of the graph that touches accounts under its
control. Yet, the regulator needs an answer to questions about
the entire graph. Previous work applies MPC techniques to
this problem [34, 86, 96], but the results are not verifiable by
a third party (i.e., the regulator or the public).
Collaborative proofs provide a clean solution. First, every
bank commits to its local view of the graph. They then collab-
oratively generate a succinct proof that there is no path from u
to v in the union of their graphs. More generally, this applies
to any query about the global graph that can be computed
using an arithmetic circuit of reasonable size. The banks can
collaboratively compute an answer to the query, along with a
proof that the answer is consistent with each bank’s commit-
ment to its local view of the graph. In case of a later dispute,
the commitments can be opened to identify who is at fault.
Publicly auditable MPC
The three applications above are
special cases of publicly auditable MPC (PA-MPC) [7]: a gen-
eral primitive that extends secure MPC to produce a proof that
can be independently checked to verify that the computation
was performed correctly. The auditor need not participate in
this computation, yet it can still check that the claimed output
is consistent with commitments to the inputs.
We will see in Section 4.1 that collaborative proofs yield
a PA-MPC with proof size and verification time sublinear in
the circuit size.
Reducing the number of parties
Some of the applications
in this section could involve many online parties, and the re-
sulting MPC can be expensive in communication (§7). How-
ever, by having each data provider secret share their data
among a small set of non-colluding servers, we can make
the cost independent of the number of data providers. Fur-
thermore, only the small set of non-colluding servers need
to be simultaneously online. A similar approach has been
successfully used in real-world MPC-based auctions [26].
3
Background
Let Fp denote the finite field of integers mod p, a prime. We
omit p when unambiguous. Let G be an additive cyclic group
of prime order q, group operation +, inverse operation −,
identity 0, and generator g.
Let G1, G2, and GT be cyclic groups of prime order q with
generators g1 ∈G1 and g2 ∈G2. Let e : G1 × G2 →GT be
an efficiently computable and non-degenerate pairing, so that
e(α·h1, β·h2) = αβ·e(h1,h2)
USENIX Association
31st USENIX Security Symposium    4293

for all α,β in Fq and all h1 ∈G1 and h2 ∈G2.
3.1
Multi-party computation
Let f : X N →Y be a function and let P1,...,PN be N par-
ties such that Pi has input xi ∈X . A multi-party computation
(MPC) for f is a protocol Π among the parties which com-
putes and reveals y := f(x1,...,xN). Informally, Π is secure
if it reveals nothing except y, and it requires malicious parties
to chose their inputs independently from the honest parties.
In more detail, Π is secure against t dishonest parties if for
every efficient adversary A corrupting t parties, there is an
efficient simulator S which can produce a protocol transcript
from the output and the inputs of those t parties, that is indis-
tinguishable from the view of those parties in a real protocol
execution.1 We refer the reader to [81] for the complete defi-
nition.
Many protocols are secure with one caveat: aborts. An
adversary can cause the protocol to abort and deny the output
to all honest parties. This security model is called security-
with-aborts and it is sufficient in our setting. Many protocols
achieve security-with-abort (or better) assuming an honest
majority of parties [9, 10, 20, 22, 27, 30, 31, 39, 44, 45, 54,
55, 57, 62, 64, 82, 89, 94] or even in the presence of a single
honest party [46, 58, 73, 80, 83, 84, 85, 88]. The latter is
called the dishonest majority setting.
Arithmetic circuit MPC
We build on MPC protocols that
can securely compute any function defined as a bounded size
arithmetic circuit. An arithmetic circuit is a directed acyclic
graph of gates and wires. Wires carry values in a finite field F
(e.g., Fp). Input wires can be public, or private to a single
party. Gates take two inputs and perform multiplication or
addition in F. Certain wires are designated as outputs.
The two protocols we build on—SPDZ [46] and GSZ [64]—
are based on secret sharing. They evaluate the circuit by rep-
resenting each wire’s value using a k-out-of-N secret-sharing:
N tokens distributed among the parties such that no k −1
tokens reveal the true value, but any k tokens do. We use [y]
to denote that y is shared using a secret sharing scheme.
• SPDZ [46] uses additive secret sharing where y ∈F is
represented by random shares y1,...,yN that sum to y.
All N shares are required to recover y.
• GSZ [45, 64] uses Shamir secret sharing [99] where
y ∈F is shared among N parties as y1,...,yN such that
the points (1,y1),...,(N,yN) lie on a polynomial p(X)
of degree at most d, with p(0) = y. Any d + 1 points
suffice to reconstruct the polynomial and y.
SPDZ [46] is a dishonest majority protocol. GSZ [64] is
representative of a new generation of state-of-the-art honest
majority protocols [22, 27, 30, 31, 62, 64].
1This defines MPC that is computationally—rather than information-
theoretically—secure. Computational MPC is more efficient.
3.2
zk-SNARKs
Informally, a proof for a relation R is a protocol between a
prover P and an efficient verifier V by which P convinces V
that ∃w : R(x,w) = 1, where x is a called an instance, and w
a witness for x. If the proof comprises a single message from
P to V , it is said to be non-interactive and has syntax:
• Setup(1λ,R) →pp: setup public parameters for R.
• Prove(pp,x,w) →π/⊥: if (x,w) ∈R, output a proof π,
otherwise ⊥.
• Verify(pp,x,π) →{0,1}: check a proof.
Generally, proofs support a class of relations (e.g., bounded
size arithmetic circuits). The supported class must also define
the size of a relation—denoted |R|—the time needed to eval-
uate it (e.g., the number of gates in the circuit). In the next
subsection we discuss common classes of relations.
A zk-SNARK is a proof with the following properties [23]:
• Completeness: If R(x,w) = 1, then an honest P convinces
V except with negligible probability. If R(x,w) = 0, Prove
outputs ⊥.
• Zero knowledge: Informally, the triple (pp,x,π) reveals
nothing about the witness w.
• Knowledge soundness: Informally, for every P ⋆there ex-
ists an efficient algorithm, called an extractor, such that
whenever P ⋆convinces V to output 1, the extractor can
use P ⋆to output w such that R(x,w) = 1 [12].
• Succinctness: proof size and verification time are o(|R|).
When soundness is computational, the protocol is called an
argument, and referred to as a (z)ero-(k)nowledge (S)uccinct
(N)on-interactive (AR)gument of (K)nowledge
R1CS format
Different zk-SNARKs represent the rela-
tion R in different ways: binary arithmetic circuits [53],
quadratic arithmetic programs [91, 97], AIR [14], low-depth
circuits [25, 42, 59, 101, 104, 105, 107, 110, 111] and
more [18, 19, 56, 91]. We focus on proofs for rank-1 con-
straint systems (R1CS); these generalize arithmetic circuits,
and are the interface to many state-of-the-art proof sys-
tems [16, 40, 66, 67].
For R1CS, x is represented as x ∈Fℓ, w is represented as
w ∈Fm−ℓ, and the relation itself is defined by three matrices:
A,B,C ∈Fn×m such that (Aa)◦(Ba) = Ca where a := x∥w
and ◦is the Hadamard (element-wise) product. This a is
said to be a satisfying assignment for the R1CS relation
(n,ℓ,m,A,B,C). The matrices are assumed to have only Θ(n)
non-zero entries, and |R| is defined to be n.
The R1CS formalism introduces an additional challenge:
each relation R must be compiled to an R1CS relation
R := (n,ℓ,m,A,B,C). Additionally, the compiler produces
a witness extension procedure Extend that maps any satisfy-
ing (x,w) ∈R to a satisfying assignment a ∈Fm for R. Thus,
when writing a proof, the prover P operates in two steps:
(1) P extends the pair (x,w) to a satisfying assignment a ∈Fm
for the R1CS relation R,
4294    31st USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

Definition 1. Collaborative zk-SNARK for a relation R, secure against t malicious provers:
Let p(λ) be a polynomial bound on the collaborative proof’s total communication, and U(λ) be the set of functions from
{0,1}≤p(λ) to {0,1}λ. In the random oracle model, a collaborative zk-SNARK for a relation R that is secure against t
malicious provers is a collaborative proof (Setup,Π,Verify) with the following properties:
• Completeness: For all (x,⃗w) ∈R, the following is negligible:
Pr

VerifyH(pp,x,π) = 0 :
H ←
$ U(λ)
pp ←SetupH(1λ,R)
π ←ΠH(pp,x,⃗w)


• Knowledge soundness: For all x, for all sets of efficient algorithms ⃗P = (P ∗
1 ,...,P ∗
N ), there exists an efficient extractor
Ext with
Pr

(x,⃗w) ∈R :
H ←
$ U(λ)
pp ←SetupH(1λ,R)
⃗w ←ExtH,⃗P H(pp,x)

≥Pr

VerifyH(pp,x,π) = 1 :
H ←
$ U(λ)
pp ←SetupH(1λ,R)
π ←⃗P H(pp,x)

−ε
for negligible ε. Here, ExtH,⃗P H denotes that Ext has oracle access to H and may re-run the collection of provers ⃗P(pp,x),
reprogramming the random oracle H each time, and receiving only the final output produced by ⃗P.
• Succinctness: Proof size and verification time are o(|R|).
• t-zero-knowledge: For all efficient A controlling k ≤t provers: Pi1,...,Pik, there exists an efficient simulator Sim such
that for all x,⃗w, and for all efficient distinguishers D,

Pr

DH[µ](tr) = 1 :
H ←
$ U(λ)
pp ←SetupH(1λ,R)
b ←R(x,⃗w) ∈{0,1}
(tr,µ) ←SimH(pp,x,wi1,...,wik,b)

−Pr

DH(tr) = 1 :
H ←
$ U(λ)
pp ←SetupH(1λ,R)
tr ←ViewH
A[x,⃗w]



is negligible, where tr is a transcript, ViewH
A[x,⃗w] denotes the view of A when provers P1,...,PN interact with input x
and witnesses ⃗w (the honest provers follow Π, but dishonest ones may not), µ is a partial function from the domain of H,
and H[µ] maps x to µ(x) if it x ∈Domain(µ) and H(x) otherwise. Thus, H[µ] is the random oracle H after it has been
re-programmed by Sim at a few points.
(2) P builds an argument of knowledge for a satisfying as-
signment for the R1CS relation R with respect to x.
The first step is relation-specific, non-cryptographic, and typi-
cally inexpensive. The second step is relation-generic, crypto-
graphic, and typically the bottleneck. Thus, most proof sys-
tems research focuses on the second step, as do we.
4
Collaborative zk-SNARKs
A non-interactive collaborative proof for N provers and a
relation R(x,w1,...,wN) is a tuple (Setup,Π,Verify):
• Setup(1λ,R) →pp: setup public parameters.
• Π(pp,x,w1,...,wN) →π: a protocol for N provers with
private inputs w1 through wN that produces a proof.
• Verify(pp,x,π) →{0,1}: check the proof.
This primitive is non-interactive in the verification phase: the
verifier does not send messages to the provers. Informally, a
collaborative proof is secure if it has the following properties:
• completeness: Honest provers with a valid witness produce
a valid proof.
• t-zero-knowledge: Up to t colluding dishonest provers learn
nothing about the witnesses of other provers through Π,
other that the validity of the entire witness.
• succinctness: Proof size and verification are o(|R|).
• knowledge soundness: Only provers that “know” a valid
witness can build a valid proof. That is, a valid witness can
be efficiently “extracted” given “rewind” access to provers
that can build a valid proof.
Definition 1 states security formally, building on prior zk-
SNARK security definitions [17]. Since soundness only holds
against efficient provers, the protocol is a non-interactive col-
laborative argument. Regardless, we (informally) refer to it
as a “proof” elsewhere in this work.
Importantly, some of the properties in Definition 1 differ
from their zk-SNARK analogs. The single-prover definition
of zero knowledge requires that the proof π for any (x,w) ∈R
USENIX Association
31st USENIX Security Symposium    4295

can be simulated without w. The restriction to valid witnesses
is acceptable because an honest prover would never write
a proof with an invalid witness. However, for collaborative
proofs, each prover controls only a part of the witness, so
no single prover can guarantee that (x,⃗w) ∈R. Moreover,
prover i can choose wi arbitrarily, and then learn if the re-
sulting combined witness w satisfies (x,⃗w) ∈R. This is un-
avoidable, and reveals to prover i some information about
the witnesses held by the other provers. We model this by
explicitly providing the validity of the witness, denoted by
b ←R(x,⃗w) ∈{0,1}, to the simulator.
In sum, the zero-knowledge property applies to all wit-
nesses, for up to t malicious provers, and guarantees that only
the validity of the witness is revealed.
Knowledge soundness has two subtleties. First, the extrac-
tor can program the oracle accessed by all provers participat-
ing in Π. Second, knowledge soundness establishes only that
the provers have distributed knowledge of the N witnesses.
That is, it proves that if they pooled their information, they
could determine the N witnesses.2 It does not prove that Pi
knows wi. This limitation is intrinsic to the non-interactive
syntax of the proof, which obscures from V the number of
provers participating in the protocol. In some cases, the re-
striction might be partially circumvented by having R itself
establish knowledge of secrets believed (for reasons external
to the proof) to be in the custody of different entities.
Theorem 1. If (Setup,Prove,Verify) is a zk-SNARK, and Π
is an MPC for Prove that is secure-with-abort against up
to t corruptions, then (Setup,Π,Verify) is a collaborative
zk-SNARK secure against t malicious provers.
Proof sketch Completeness follows from the completeness of
the zk-SNARK and the correctness of Π as an MPC. Knowl-
edge soundness follows directly from the knowledge sound-
ness of the zk-SNARK: from the perspective of an extractor,
properties that hold for a malicious prover also hold for a
malicious collection of provers. Succinctness follows from
the succinctness of the zk-SNARK. Security-with-abort is
sufficient for Π because the collaborative proof completeness
definition does not cover malicious provers.
Zero-knowledge follows from the zero-knowledge of the
zk-SNARK and the security of Π. In the case that b = 1 (the
witness is valid), then the SNARK’s zero-knowledge implies
that π can be simulated from x. Then, the security of Π implies
that the adversary’s view can be simulated from π and the
witnesses of the corrupted provers. If b = 0 (the witness is
invalid), then the security of Π implies that adversary’s view
can be directly simulated from the witnesses of corrupted
provers and ⊥.
Collaborative proofs for R1CS
In this work, we consider
non-interactive collaborative arguments for secret-shared
R1CS witnesses. That is, we consider an R1CS instance x
2This is the Halpern and Moses definition of distributed knowledge [68].
R
⃗w
x
Compiler
Πext
R
[w]
x
SetupR1CS
pp
ΠR1CS
π
Figure 2: The role of compilation and extension when using
a collaborative zk-SNARK for R1CS. First, the relation R is
compiled to an R1CS relation R and a protocol Πext. Given
(x,⃗w) ∈R, the provers engage in Πext to yield x and [w] such
that x∥w satisfies R.
and provers P1,...,PN which hold shares [w] of an R1CS
witness w, such that x∥w is a satisfying assignment for an
R1CS relation R. As in a single prover SNARK for R1CS, this
approach requires a compiler to R1CS which also produces
an extension protocol that maps the input and witness for R
to shares of the complete R1CS witness. Figure 2 shows the
use of the compiler and extension protocol.
4.1
PA-MPC from collaborative proofs
Publicly-auditable MPC [7] (PA-MPC) extends MPC with a
publicly-verifiable proof that the output of the MPC is cor-
rect with respect to commitments to each party’s inputs. In
Appendix D we define PA-MPC formally, and show that col-
laborative proofs can be used to construct a PA-MPC protocol.
Specifically, we show how a suitable MPC protocol, a com-
mitment scheme, and a collaborative proof give a PA-MPC
protocol. The derived PA-MPC protocol outputs proofs whose
size is about the same as those output by the collaborative
proof. In particular, if the collaborative proof scheme out-
puts constant size proofs, then so does the derived PA-MPC
protocol. This is a dramatic improvement over the classic
construction [7] (where proof size and verification time are
linear in the size of the evaluated circuit) and it is competitive
with recent [103] and concurrent [75] work.
5
Design: efficient MPC for SNARK provers
5.1
Review: two algebraic MPC protocols
We extend two secure MPC protocols for arithmetic circuit
evaluation. The first, GSZ (§5.1), is secure if a majority of par-
ties are honest. The second, SPDZ (§5.1), is secure if at least
one party is honest. We choose these two protocols because
they are simple, efficient, and extend naturally to elliptic curve
computations (§5.2). SPDZ [46] is a dishonest majority pro-
tocol. GSZ [64] is representative of a new generation of state-
of-the-art honest majority protocols [22, 27, 30, 31, 62, 64].
We first describe important features of both protocols. Then
in Section 5.2, we discuss how to generalize these protocols
4296    31st USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

to circuits over elliptic curve points and their scalars.
Honest majority MPC using GSZ
The first protocol, GSZ
was developed in [64], and based on [27, 45, 55]. The protocol
builds on Shamir secret-sharing. It evaluates an arithmetic cir-
cuit one gate at a time. Shamir shares can be added, shifted by
public values, and scaled by public values using a single field
operation and no communication between parties. Shares can
be multiplied with an interactive protocol [45]. This protocol
is not secure against malicious behavior [55], so all multi-
plication triples ([x],[y],[z]) corresponding to wire values of
multiplication gates in the circuit, must be saved and checked
for consistency, namely xy = z, before any share is opened.
The multiplication checking protocol requires communication
sub-linear in the number of triples [64].
Dishonest majority MPC using SPDZ
The SPDZ pro-
tocol [46] uses additive sharing. Similar to Shamir shares,
additive shares can be added, shifted by public values, or
scaled by public values with at most one field operation and
with no communication between parties. Multiplying shares
requires an interactive protocol. SPDZ does not need to check
multiplication triples because it maintains a shared message
authentication code (MAC) [∆x] for each shared value [x]
(∆∈F, the MAC key, is unknown to all). Together, a share and
its MAC form an authenticated share. The opening protocol
for authenticated shares assures the integrity of the revealed
value. However, since each operation on an authenticated
share changes the MAC, the operation takes twice as long.
Both GSZ and SPDZ are typically split into a preprocessing
phase (which can run before the circuit inputs are known) and
an online phase (which runs after the inputs are known). We
briefly discuss the relative costs of these phases in Section 7.
5.2
MPC using elliptic curve secret sharing
While SPDZ and GSZ natively support arithmetic over a fi-
nite field, the zk-SNARKs we consider perform many elliptic
curve group operations, such as curve additions and multipli-
cations by scalars.
Since elliptic curve operations decompose into operations
over the curve’s base field, there is an obvious way to perform
them in an MPC. Unfortunately, this naive approach is very
expensive: curve additions require tens of field operations,
and scalar products require thousands. Furthermore, curve
additions require multiple field multiplications, so even curve
additions require rounds of communication.
Fortunately there is a better way: both the SPDZ and GSZ
protocols can be adapted to operate directly on elliptic curves,
where all secret sharing is done over the elliptic curve.
An elliptic curve circuit (Fig. 3) is a generalization of an
arithmetic circuit over Fq, adding support for computations
over an elliptic curve group G, with order q. In an elliptic
curve circuit, wires can hold elliptic curve points from G or
x ∈F
y ∈F
P ∈G
×
×
+
Figure 3: An elliptic curve circuit. The sub-circuit drawn
with solid lines is an arithmetic circuit; the dashed extension
includes curve operations
.
scalars from Fq and the gate set is extended to include curve
addition and the multiplication of curve points by scalars. The
multiplication of two curve points is prohibited.
Prior work shows that SPDZ generalizes to elliptic curve
circuits [100]; we observe that GSZ does too. To start, observe
that Shamir secret sharing can be used to share an elliptic
curve point: the N shares are themselves elliptic curve points,
and the secret is reconstructed by a weighted linear combi-
nation of sufficiently many shares. In Appendix A, we show
how to apply GSZ’s sub-protocols—those for computing [45]
and checking [64] field products—to scalar-curve products.3
5.3
Commitments to shared polynomials
SNARK provers have many components. In this section and
the next we show efficient MPC protocols for the core building
blocks needed to generate a SNARK proof. We begin with an
MPC protocol for a polynomial commitment scheme.
Polynomial commitments are a primitive—and bottleneck—
in many recent SNARKs. SNARKs are built from polynomial
commitments using the polynomial interactive oracle proof
(P-IOP) paradigm [36, 40]. In a P-IOP, P’s messages to V
are oracles to polynomials which V accesses by querying
for the outputs at various inputs. The polynomials are en-
codings of the SNARK witness, and V checks the SNARK
relation using the results of its queries. To compile a P-IOP
to a standard protocol, a polynomial commitment scheme is
used to implement the oracles. For each oracle, P sends V a
commitment to the underlying polynomial. For each query,
V sends the input, P sends the output, and P and V engage
in an evaluation protocol to validate the claimed evaluation.
Informally, the evaluation protocol forces P to answer queries
consistently with the underlying polynomial, so the compiled
protocol is equivalent to the P-IOP.
A polynomial commit scheme is a tuple (PC.Setup,
PC.Commit,PC.Eval) where
3Generalizing SPDZ and GSZ to elliptic curves suffices for implementing
SNARK provers, but the protocols can do even more: they apply to any
bilinear operation, e.g., pairings and polynomial products.
USENIX Association
31st USENIX Security Symposium    4297

• PC.Setup(d) →pp: prepares public parameters supporting
polynomials of degree up to d.
• PC.Commit(pp, f,r) →c: computes a commitment c to
an input polynomial f, using randomness r.
• PC.Eval(pp,x,y,c; f,r) →{0,1}: a protocol where P con-
vinces V that c commits to an f such that f(x) = y. Only
P knows f and r.
Prior work [36, 40] gives the security properties that a
polynomial commitment must satisfy for the compiled P-IOP
to be secure.
For a collaborative proof, the polynomial f is shared since it
encodes the witness. However, the commitment to f, and var-
ious polynomial evaluations that are part of the proof are pub-
lic. Hence, our goal is to generalize PC.Commit and PC.Eval
to efficiently operate on a shared polynomial.
KZG
commitments
The
KZG
polynomial commit-
ment [76] is among the most efficient known schemes and in
particular has the smallest evaluation proofs. It is defined by
four algorithms:
• PC.Setup(d): sample α
$←−F; output
pp ←(α·g1, ..., αd ·g1, α·g2)
• PC.Commit(pp, f): output c = f(α)·g1,
computed as c ←∑d
i=0 fi ·(αi ·g1)
• PC.Prove(pp, f,x): compute the remainder and quotient
q(X),r(X) ←
 f(X)−f(x)

/(X −x);
output π = q(α) · g1, computed as π ←∑d
i=0 qi · (αi · g1);
the remainder r(X) must be zero.
• PC.Check(pp,c,x,y,π): accept if the following pairing
equation holds:
e(π, α·g2 −x·g2) = e(c−y·g1, g2)
Here, PC.Setup samples a trapdoor α, which must be dis-
carded for security; for this reason the procedure is called
a trusted setup. Together, PC.Prove and PC.Check form
the evaluation protocol for the scheme. At a high level, the
scheme’s security follows from the fact that X −x divides
f(X)−y if and only if f(x) = y. See [40, 52, 76] for security
proofs and extensions of the scheme.
Generalizing KZG to multiple provers
We now adapt
KZG to polynomials shared among multiple provers.
How can PC.Commit and PC.Prove be implemented for
a secret shared f? First, let [f] be represented as a list of
shared coefficients: [f0],[f1],...,[fd]. Let f (i)
0 , f (i)
1 ,... f (i)
d
de-
note Pi’s shares of those coefficients, defining a polyno-
mial f (i), known only to Pi. When using a linear sharing
scheme [11] (including the additive and Shamir schemes we
use) the provers can correctly create shares of commitments
to (respectively, proofs for) f by locally committing to (re-
spectively, proving evaluations for) their individual f (i) and
interpreting the results as shares of the desired commitment
(respectively, proof). More explicitly, Figure 4 holds our multi-
party commitment and proving protocols: PC.Commit′ and
PC.Prove′.
Let us show that PC.Prove′ is correct; Appendix C shows
security and that PC.Commit′ is correct and secure. We ar-
gue generically over a linear secret sharing scheme [11]. A
linear secret sharing scheme has linear reconstruction: for
any sufficient subset of parties there is a linear combination
of their shares that reconstructs the value. Let⃗γ ∈FN encode
this linear combination, that is, for any value v with shares
v(i), v = ∑N
i=1 γiv(i).
We begin with a lemma about the division in PC.Prove′
from Figure 4b.
Lemma 2. For any shared polynomial [f(X)] and public
polynomial d(X), if each party Pi computes q(i),r(i) ←f (i)
d ,
then q(i) and r(i) are shares of q and r such that (q,r) = f
d .
Proof. Per each party’s euclidean division, we have that q(i) ·
d + r(i) = f (i). Summing the equations—scaled by the γi—
yields:
 
N
∑
i=1
γiq(i)
!
·d +
 
N
∑
i=1
γir(i)
!
=
N
∑
i=1
γi f (i) = f
Since each r(i) has degree less than d, their scaled sum does
too, so ∑N
i=1 γiq(i) and ∑N
i=1 γir(i) are a quotient-remainder pair
for f divided by d. Since polynomial division is unique, these
sums must be equal to q and r respectively.
Claim 3. PC.Prove′ is correct, that is PC.Prove(pp, f,x) =
PC.Prove′(pp,[f],x).
Proof. It suffices to show that ∑N
i=1 γiπ(i) is equal to
PC.Prove(pp, f,x). By Lemma 2, we have that for the q(i)
that each Pi computes, ∑i γiq(i) = q. Then we have that
∑N
i=1 γiπ(i) is just ∑N
i=1 ∑d
j=1 γiq(i)
j ·αj ·g1. Swapping the order
of the sum and simplifiying yields ∑d
j=1 ∑N
i=1 γiq(i)
j ·αj ·g1 =
∑d
j=1 γiq(i)(α)·g1 = q(α)·g1 = PC.Prove(pp, f,x).
These simple and efficient protocols for commitments to
shared polynomials are encouraging: the bottleneck in many
SNARKs incurs little overhead in the multi-prover setting.
In the next section we’ll see that many other key SNARK
operations have similarly efficient protocols.
5.4
Optimizing SNARK provers for MPC
In this subsection we discuss techniques for optimizing four
SNARKs: Groth16 [66], Marlin [40], Plonk [53], and Frac-
tal [41] to multiple-provers. Marlin and Plonk are defined
4298    31st USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

procedure PC.Commit′(pp,[f]) →c:
each party i:
c(i) ←∑d
j=0 f (i)
j ·(α j ·g1)
interpret c(i) as a share of [c]
output [c]
(a) Commitments
procedure PC.Prove′(pp,[f],x) →π:
each party i:
q(i),r(i) ←f (i)/(X −x)
(compute quotient and remainder)
π(i) ←∑d
j=0 q(i)
j ·(αj ·g1)
interpret π(i) as a share of [π]
output [π]
(b) Evaluation proofs
Figure 4: KZG [76] procedures for shared polynomials
SNARK
FFT
MSM
Poly. Division
Vector Commit.
Sum-Check
Product-Check
Groth16 [66]
✓
✓
✓
Marlin [40]
✓
✓
✓
✓
Plonk [53]
✓
✓
✓
✓
Fractal [41]
✓
✓
✓
Figure 5: Key components of SNARKs
generically over a polynomial commitment scheme. We in-
stantiate them with the KZG-derived scheme from [40],
adapted per the previous subsection. Here, we focus on other
potential bottlenecks, especially those common to multiple
provers. Figure 5 shows the operations we consider and the
SNARKs they appear in.
Traditional bottlenecks: FFTs and MSMs
Fast fourier
transforms (FFTs) and multi-scalar multiplications (MSMs)
are bottlenecks for most SNARK provers. MSMs are com-
putations of the form ∑i γi ·gi for scalars γi and curve points
gi; informally, provers use them to “commit” to the scalars γi.
The fourier transform computes a matrix-vector product M⃗x,
where M is derived from a root of unity ω. Provers use FFTs
to convert between the coefficient- and evaluation-forms of
polynomials.
Both the FFT and MSM are linear operators in the scalars γi
and the vector⃗x respectively. Thus, if other inputs (the curve
points gi and the root of unity ω) are public information (as
they are in SNARKs) and a linear sharing scheme is used,
each operator can be applied directly to each party’s input
shares, yielding shares of the output. Thus, FFTs and MSMs
in a multi-prover SNARK reduce to performing the opera-
tion share-wise, with no communication required. Share-wise
computation is cheap in an MPC: identical to the base cost
for Shamir shares and twice that for authenticated shares.
We now discuss other operations that are not traditional
bottlenecks, but might become bottlenecks in the multi-prover
setting.
Polynomial division
All provers do large polynomial di-
visions: a complex and non-linear operation that might have
high cost in an MPC. However, most SNARKs (including
those we consider) only divide by witness-independent—
and therefore public—polynomials. The KZG scheme is
one example—the divisor is X −x, for public x. Elsewhere,
provers divide by far larger polynomials, but these polyno-
mials are still public, admitting—as shown Section 5.3—a
simple protocol.
Sum- and product-checks
Two of the proof systems listed,
Plonk and Marlin, combine the aforementioned components
with two different but related proof primitives: Marlin re-
lies on SUMCHECK while Plonk relies on PRODCHECK. To
explain these primitives, let cf be a commitment to a poly-
nomial f ∈Fp[X], let Ω:= {1,ω,ω2,...ωn−1} be a subset
of Fp, and let c ∈Fp. Then SUMCHECK and PRODCHECK
are sub-SNARKs for the relations R+ and R× respectively,
where
• R+
 cf ,c; f

holds when ∑x∈Ωf(x) = c and cf is a com-
mitment to f;
• R×
 cf ,c; f

holds when ∏x∈Ωf(x) = c and cf is a com-
mitment to f.
The SUMCHECK SNARK is described in [40] while the
PRODCHECK SNARK is described in [53]. An MPC imple-
mentation of Plonk and Marlin requires proving SUMCHECK
and PRODCHECK for shared polynomials.
Adapting the SUMCHECK prover to a shared [f] is fairly di-
rect. In SUMCHECK, the prover commits to f ′(X) ←(f(X)−
c/|Ω|)/X, and the verifier checks that f = X · f ′ +c/|Ω|. The
coefficients of f ′ are just coefficients of f, so the only work
happens inside the polynomial commitment.
PRODCHECK poses a greater challenge. Its prover first
computes all partial products
ti :=
i
∏
j=0
f(ωj) for i = 0,...,n−1.
(1)
At first glance, one might expect that that an MPC for
the PRODCHECK prover would be very costly. Indeed, the
USENIX Association
31st USENIX Security Symposium    4299

distributed prover has to compute a sharing of the n partial
products in (1), which naively takes n−1 rounds.
We show that an MPC for the PRODCHECK prover can
actually be implemented in a constant number of rounds. To
do so, we use a technique due to Bar-Ilan and Beaver [4] to
compute all partial products in a constant number of rounds:
(1) The provers generate shared values [r0],

r−1
0

,[r1],

r−1
1

,
...,[rn],

r−1
n

for random r0,r1,...,rn in Fp.
(2) The provers use a multiplication protocol to compute
and open the quantities

ri−1tir−1
i

for i ∈{1,...,n}. Let
t′
1,...,t′
n ∈Fp be the resulting public quantities.
(3) Use n multiplications in parallel to compute [ti] =
(∏i
j=1t′
j)·

r−1
0 ·ri

for i ∈{1,...,n}.
The end result is all the partial products needed to run the
PRODCHECK prover. The remainder of computing the PROD-
CHECK proof can be adapted to an MPC with previously
discussed techniques.
Vector commitments and hashing
Fractal, like Marlin and
Plonk, can be viewed as a P-IOP, but with a very different kind
of polynomial commitment. Rather than using the pairing-
based KZG scheme, the prover commits to a vector of poly-
nomial evaluations (over an enormous domain) using a vector
commitment, which can be opened to any index. Then, P and
V use a low-degree test to establish that most elements in
the vector are consistent with a low-degree polynomial. Then,
future polynomial evaluation queries reduce to vector com-
mitment index openings. By using a hash-based vector com-
mitment, the security of Fractal rests only on cryptographic
hashing; which is plausibly quantum secure—unlike pairings.
Fractal’s best low-degree test, DEEP-FRI [13, 21], is based
on the fast Fourier transform, and adapts naturally to an MPC.
However, implementing the vector commitment efficiently
in an MPC seems difficult. Fractal’s best vector commitment
is a Merkle tree: a binary tree of hash evaluations that reduce
a vector to a single hash that serves as the commitment to the
vector. Hash functions, by necessity, are extremely non-linear,
so evaluating them on shared data is extremely expensive.
Even hash functions explicitly designed to minimize non-
linearity [2, 65] still require hundreds of field multiplications.
To avoid this cost, one could replace the vector commitment
to evaluations of a polynomial f with N vector commitments
to evaluations of shares of f: f (1),..., f (N). Then, when V
requests an evaluation, each Pi opens the corresponding evalu-
ation of f (i); V checks all N opening proofs and computes the
sum. This minimizes prover cost, but the proof size grows by
a factor of N, as does V ’s work. When an application requires
short proofs and fast verification, this might be unacceptable.
6
Implementation
We implement collaborative proofs based on Groth16, Marlin,
and Plonk. We omit Fractal because of the tradeoff between
proving time and proof size discussed in the previous sec-
tion. Our starting point is arkworks [48]: a collection of Rust
libraries for implementing cryptographic proofs, used in a
few recent works [37, 38, 40]. It includes interfaces and im-
plementations for finite fields, pairing-friendly curves, and
polynomial commitments. It also includes SNARKs imple-
mented generically over their primitives; e.g., Groth16 and
Marlin implementations applicable to any pairing e.
Collaborative SNARKs through MPC lifting
Our im-
plementation pursues three goals. First, to support different
secret-sharing schemes, proof systems, and MPC protocols.
Second, to achieve proving time concretely competitive with
state-of-the-art conventional SNARKs. Third, to focus on the
multi-party aspects of the implementation and optimization.
Given these considerations, we adopt a design that lifts an
existing SNARK prover implementation into a multi-prover
protocol by instantiating the primitives that the prover uses
with secure multi-party protocols. At a high level, we:
(1) define interfaces for field and curve sharing schemes
(2) provide implementations based on the SPDZ and GSZ
protocols
(3) define wrapper types for field and curve elements which
can be either public or shared,
(4) implement arkworks field and curve interfaces for the
wrapper types,
(5) instantiate arkworks-based SNARK provers with the
wrapper types (yielding multi-prover protocols!), and
(6) optimize the protocols.
Building multi-party primitives
We first define interfaces
for shares of both field elements and groups of prime order
(like pairing-friendly elliptic curves). From here on, we dis-
cuss only field support; group support is similar. The field
share interface includes functions for scaling by public values,
shifting by public values, adding shares, multiplying shares,
and opening shares. We implement three sharing schemes
generically over their underlying field. They use a network
library to communicate and access protocol metadata (e.g.,
their party number). Figure 6 shows the definitions, and how
to shift each type of share by a public value. For GSZ shares,4
all parties shift their value; for additive shares, only one party
does; for authenticated shares, the base share is updated by a
single party, but the MAC is updated by everyone using their
share of the MAC key.
To represent values in an MPC, we introduce a union
type MpcField for either public or shared field elements.
MpcField is generic over both the field and the sharing
scheme. We implement the Field interface for MpcField,
allowing it to be used in any computation that expects to op-
erate on field elements. Figure 7 sketches the code for this.
By instantiating the function foo (perhaps not intended as an
4Identical to Shamir shares, save the verification that runs before any
share is opened.
4300    31st USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

struct AddShare<F> {
f: F,
}
impl<F: Field> FieldShare<F>
for AddShare<F> {
fn shift(&mut self, c: F) {
if net::am_first_party() {
self.f += c;
}
}
// ... other methods ...
}
struct AuthShare<F> {
val: AddShare<F>,
mac: AddShare<F>,
}
impl<F: Field> FieldShare<F>
for AuthShare<F> {
fn shift(&mut self, c: F) {
self.val.shift(c);
self.mac.f +=
mac_key_share() * c;
}
// ... other methods ...
}
struct GszShare<F> {
y: F,
// x is party number
}
impl<F: Field> FieldShare<F>
for GszShare<F> {
fn shift(&mut self, c: F) {
self.y += c;
}
// ... other methods ...
}
Figure 6: Fragments of the definitions of additive, authenticated, and GSZ shares
enum MpcField<F, S> {
Public(F),
Shared(S),
}
impl<F: Field, S: FieldShare<F>>
Field for MpcField<F, S> {
// ...
}
fn foo<F: Field>() { /* .. */ }
use ark_bls12_377::Bls12_377::Fr as OurField;
fn run_local() {
foo::<OurField>();
}
fn run_mpc() {
net::init(); // reads config file
foo::<MpcField<OurField, GszShare<OurField>>>();
}
Figure 7: Single and multi-party computations in our framework. foo is defined generically over a field F. Instantiating F
with BLS 12-377’s scalar field yields a local computation. Instantiating F with MpcField and GszShare yields a multi-party
computation backed by the GSZ protocol.
MPC) with an MpcField based on GszShare, we execute it
as an honest-majority secure multi-party computation.
Lifting SNARKs into MPCs and optimizing
Similarly, we
can obtain collaborative proofs from prover implementations
that are generic over the arkworks interfaces. For Marlin and
Groth16 we can use implementations from arkworks; Plonk
has no arkworks-based implementation yet, so we build one.
The resulting protocols (with a few small tweaks) are cor-
rect but perform poorly. The problem is that some operations
are not optimized for an MPC. One example is computing the
partial products of a list (discussed in Section 5.4). Without
optimization, this entails a sequence of calls to the Field
interface’s multiplication method; each call requires a round
of communication, which is expensive. To allow for an MPC-
optimized protocol here (i.e., the one from Section 5.4), we
add a partial product method to the Field interface. The de-
fault implementation is based on serial multiplication, but we
also provide an overriding implementation for a sequence of
shared values. We repeat this pattern (find a problematic oper-
ation, identify a better MPC protocol, add the operation to the
relevant algebraic interface, and provide an MPC-optimized
implementation) for batch multiplication, polynomial division,
batch inversion, multi-scalar multiplication, and the Fourier
transform. These new methods and their default implemen-
tations are our primary changes to the arkworks algebraic
interfaces. Calls to these methods are our primary changes to
the SNARK prover implementations.
Limitations
Our approach is effective for collaborative
proofs, but cannot be applied to all computations based on
arkworks. Critically, it does not support programs which
branch on shared data or access data at shared locations. The
limitation is fundamental: the MPC protocols we use sup-
port circuit evaluation, not RAM machine execution—which
the Rust programming language and arkworks target. While
a program might perform circuit-incompatible operations,
our approach works because the provers we study do not
do that.5 Techniques for translating RAM programs into cir-
cuits [6, 32, 33, 78, 79, 90, 102] could yield more general
support. Separately, some MPC algorithms [61, 70, 71, 72]
directly support branching programs.
Source code
In sum, our implementation comprises a
network library (≈700 lines), interfaces and implementa-
tions of sharing schemes (≈3000 lines), MPC implemen-
tations of arkworks algebraic interfaces (≈2000 lines), an
arkworks Plonk implementation (≈1200 lines), and tests
and benchmarking scripts (≈3000 lines). We also slightly
modify a number of arkworks libraries. Our implementa-
tion is available at https://github.com/alex-ozdemir/
multiprover-snark.
5There are a few exceptions. Some basic operations (polynomial divi-
sion, multi-scalar multiplication) branch on shared data—we provide MPC-
optimized replacements anyway, sidestepping the issue. Some provers also
check intermediate (shared) proof material for consistency—we defer all
checks until the final proof is revealed.
USENIX Association
31st USENIX Security Symposium    4301

Groth16
Marlin
Plonk
20
25
210
215
220 20
25
210
215
220 20
25
210
215
220
2−5
20
25
210
Constraints
Time (s)
MPC Type
2PC: Dishonest
Maj. (SDPZ)
3PC: Dishonest
Maj. (SDPZ)
3PC: Honest
Maj. (GSZ)
Single Prover
Figure 8: Proving time for varying numbers of parties and protocols, over a 3 gigabit link. NPC denotes a collaboration among N
provers. A dishonest majority (SPDZ) protocol is private against <N corrupt provers. An honest majority (GSZ) protocol is
private against <N/2 corrupt provers. The baseline is a single prover, using the (non-collaborative) zk-SNARK.
7
Evaluation
We evaluate our collaborative SNARKs against conventional
SNARKs. Our metric is single-threaded prover runtime; for
multiple parties, this is their average runtime. For all config-
urations, we report the median of three trials. We vary these
parameters:
• collaborative proof: based on Groth16, Marlin, or Plonk
• number of rank-1 constraints: from 2 to 220. We discuss
the number of constraints needed by one application at the
end of the section.
• MPC algorithm: GSZ (honest majority) or SPDZ (dishonest
majority)
• link capacity: from 1Mb/s to 3Gb/s
As we will see, collaborative proofs are concretely fast: over
gigabit links, multi-prover protocols are nearly as fast as a
single prover.
Preprocessing
We do not evaluate pre-processing. Omitting
preprocessing is acceptable for two reasons. First, preprocess-
ing can be performed when spare compute and bandwidth
are available. Second, preprocessing is concretely faster than
proof generation. The most expensive preprocessing required
by either of our base protocols (SPDZ and GSZ) is the multi-
plication triple generation phase of SPDZ. Yet, with recent
protocols [8, 74, 95], this requires only a few microseconds
per triple (e.g., [8] generates one million triples in in ≈5s).
Meanwhile, even the fastest prover (Groth16)—which uses
one triple per constraint—requires over 200 µs per constraint.
High capacity links
Our first experiment measures proving
time for varying MPC algorithms, numbers of constraints,
and proof systems over a high-capacity link. We consider 2
and 3-party proofs, omitting honest majority 2-party proofs,
which provide no security. We consider constraints systems
of size 2 through 220, and collaborative proofs based on
Groth16, Marlin, and Plonk. For each proof system, we com-
pare with the single-prover time. Google Cloud Platform
(GCP) n2-standard-2 machines are our testbed; these have
1 hardware core (Cascade lake), 8GB of memory, and 3Gb/s
links. We run Debian 10 with hyperthreading disabled.
Figure 8 shows the results. Missing data points indicate
memory exhaustion. For small constraint systems the multi-
prover protocols are slower than a single prover, because net-
work round-trips (which take milliseconds) dominate. How-
ever, the number of round-trips is sub-linear in constraints,6
and for large constraint systems (≳210) the protocols perform
quite well. The honest majority protocol (3PC GSZ) runs in
essentially the same time as a single prover; the dishonest ma-
jority protocols (SPDZ) run in essentially twice the time. This
is because the computational costs of the protocols dominate
the bandwidth costs. SPDZ is twice as slow as a single prover
because it applies the computation to the data and its MAC:
duplicating the computational work.
Varying party count
To show how the different MPC im-
plementations scale with party count, we write Groth16 proofs
for 210 constraints, with varying numbers of parties. We use
the same testbed as the previous experiment, and report slow-
down: the time to write the collaborative proof, divided by
the time of a single prover. Figure 9 shows the results. As the
6SPDZ is constant-round, while GSZ requires a logarithmic number of
rounds to check multiplication triples.
4302    31st USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

single prover
20
21
22
23
21
22
23
24
25
Parties
Slowdown
MPC Type
Dishonest Maj.
(SPDZ)
Honest Maj.
(GSZ)
Figure 9: Proving time versus number of parties, normalized
by single-prover time. All protocols output Groth16 proofs
for 210 constraints over a 3 gigabit link.
single prover
20
21
22
23
24
25
20
22
24
26
Bandwidth (Mb/s)
Slowdown
Proof System
Groth16
Marlin
Plonk
Figure 10: Proving time versus link capacity, normalized by
single-prover time. All protocols run with 2 parties, 210 con-
straints, and the malicious majority protocol (SPDZ).
number of parties increases, the performance of SPDZ slowly
degrades, while the performance of GSZ degrades faster. The
crucial difference is in the number of rounds of inter-prover
communication. For SPDZ, there is only a constant number of
rounds of communication, since the Groth16 circuit has low
multiplicative depth. However, the multiplication checking
protocol of GSZ requires a number of rounds logarithmic in
the number of constraints. This means that for large numbers
of parties, one should use a round-efficient protocol such as
SPDZ instead of GSZ, even if one assumes a majority of
provers are honest.
Varying link capacity
While gigabit links are common in
LANs, within datacenters, and between data centers, lower
capacity links are common elsewhere. Our third experiment
measures the relationship between proving time and link ca-
pacity. We cohost two provers on an Arch Linux (kernel
5.12.15) machine with an AMD Ryzen-2700 CPU and 32GB
of RAM. We use the Mahimahi network shell suite [87] to
Type
Size
Compute
Traffic
Total Cost
2PC
210
1.9×10−5
1.0×10−5
2.9×10−5
1PC
210
4.6×10−6
0
4.6×10−6
2PC
220
0.019
0.011
0.030
1PC
220
0.0048
0
0.0048
Figure 11: Price estimates (in US$) for collaborative (2PC)
and conventional (1PC) proofs. The “size” column refers to
the number of constraints.
emulate low-capacity links. We report slowdown for SPDZ
evaluating varying provers on 210 constraints with varying
network capacity.
Figure 10 shows the results. At low bandwidths, data trans-
fer dominates proving time, so slowdown grows linearly with
the reciprocal of link capacity. At higher bandwidths, com-
putational costs dominate, so slowdown approaches 2 (recall
that SPDZ duplicates the computation). Plonk’s slowdown is
higher than the other proof systems. This is due to the batch
multiplications and divisions in its PRODCHECK; while our
optimization (Section 5.4) keeps round complexity constant,
the communication volume is still substantial.
Price
We also estimate the price of writing collabora-
tive proofs. We consider 2-prover Groth16 proofs using
the SPDZ protocol. Communication is dominated by 256-
bit field elements: 4n are transferred. Figure 8 shows that
the computation requires ≈488µs per constraint. Currently,
GCP e2-standard-2 VMs cost $0.067/hr [93], and cross-
continent traffic between VMs costs $0.08/GB [92]. At these
rates, Figure 11 summarizes net costs for proofs of varying
size and type. Collaborative proofs (2PC) have quadruple the
compute costs of conventional ones (1PC), because they in-
volve twice the wall-clock time and two machines. Ultimately,
net costs are tiny: million-constraint collaborative proofs cost
only 3 cents.
Proofs about net assets
In Section 2 we discussed a setting
where a client of multiple banks wants a publicly verifiable
proof that the net of its debits and credits across all its banks
exceeds a threshold T. Here, we discuss the number of con-
straints required for such a proof.
To use our collaborative proofs, that claim must be written
as a rank-1 constraint system (R1CS). How does the number
of constraints depend on the number of transactions (credits
and debits)? The constraints must (a) open the bank’s com-
mitments to all the customer’s transactions, (b) check that
each transaction is well-formed, (c) sum their values, and (d)
compare that sum to T.
Let there be n transactions split among N banks. Each
transaction is a 64-bit signed integer. Let bank i have ni trans-
actions in a Merkle tree of ni + 1 leaves—the extra leaf is
fully random to make the commitment hiding. Opening bank
i’s commitment uses ni hash evaluations: one for each internal
USENIX Association
31st USENIX Security Symposium    4303

node in the binary Merkle tree. Thus, opening all the com-
mitments uses n = ∑i ni hash evaluations. The Poseidon [65]
hash function requires ≈300 constraints per evaluation.
Furthermore, checking that each committed transaction has
a value representable as a 64-bit signed integer requires ≈64
constraints. In R1CS, computing the sum requires essentially
no constraints, and comparing with T requires a small con-
stant number of constraints: ≈64 + log2 n. In sum, a proof
about n transactions requires ≈364n constraints. Thus, 220
constraints suffices for proofs about ≈2900 customer transac-
tions. This means that three banks could write a proof about
≈2900 transactions in ≈165s. This time could be further
reduced with parallelism (§9).
8
Related work
The most closely related work is [75] (building on [103]),
which is concurrent and independent. Their focus is on en-
abling MPC-as-a-service, by building a PA-MPC protocol
(as defined in [7]) from Marlin [40]. They specially integrate
the PA-MPC commitments that each party posts to its input
with the Marlin prover, via polynomial evaluation commit-
ments: a primitive they introduce. In contrast, our focus is
on collaborative proofs: we explore the MPC friendliness of
different zk-SNARK systems. Any of our constructions yields
PA-MPC (§4.1).
Other works also distribute a SNARK prover. Some do so
to parallelize [109] or delegate [97] computation. These goals
are orthogonal to our goal: the privacy on an initially dis-
tributed witness. Bulletproofs have been securely distributed
for privacy [35]; however, this work does not define secu-
rity for a collaborative proof and considers only honest-but-
curious adversaries. Moreover, Bulletproof verification takes
time Ω(n). Thus, the result is not a collaborative zk-SNARK.
Another line of work [1, 27, 28], based on Prio [43], con-
siders proofs over a witness shared among multiple verifiers.
In our setting, the witness is shared among multiple provers.
Research into multi-prover interactive proofs (MIPs) [3,
24, 60] considers two provers who are assumed to not collude
to increase the power of the proof system. Our goal is inter-
prover privacy, and we explicitly consider colluding provers.
Other research [15, 29, 77] uses MPC to securely sample
zk-SNARK parameters (e.g., to ensure that KZG’s α parame-
ter is discarded). This is orthogonal to our approach, which is
securely distribute the proving algorithm of a zk-SNARK.
9
Discussion
A partial barrier to reducing communication
Since com-
munication is a bottleneck over low-capacity networks, one
might try to reduce it. However, we show a partial barrier:
Ω(n) communication is required if the R1CS witness is addi-
tively shared, where n is the number of rank-1 constraints. We
show this, in Appendix B, through a reduction from disjoint:
a known communication-hard problem.
Nonetheless, constant-factor reductions in communication
are possible. For example, [22, 30, 31, 62] communicate less
than GSZ, with varying assumptions about the numbers of
honest and dishonest parties. We leave the empirical evalua-
tion of these protocols in our setting to future work.
Parallelization
For simplicity, we evaluate single-threaded
provers. However, our techniques should yield multi-threaded
multi-prover protocols with similarly good performance com-
pared to a multi-threaded single prover. In most provers, par-
allelism accelerates Fourier transforms and multi-scalar multi-
plications. Our protocols perform these operations locally, so
the same benefits should be achievable. Similarly, distributed
computing [109] and hardware acceleration [112] could be
used. However, parallelism would be less helpful over low-
capacity links, where bandwidth becomes the bottleneck (§7).
Latency
Our evaluation considered the effect of link
capacity—but not latency—on proving-time. All protocols
have round-complexity sub-linear in the constraint count, so
latency has an insignificant effect as constraint count grows.
Trusted Setup
Our implemented collaborative proofs all
require the same trusted setup as the zk-SNARK they build
on. For those based on Plonk or Marlin that setup is uni-
versal (independent of the relation) and updatable (securely
re-randomizable by any party). A Fractal-based collaborative
zk-SNARK would not require a trusted setup.
Leaking relation membership
We emphasize that a col-
laborative proof for (x,w) reveals whether (x,w) is in R. This
is unavoidable: completeness and soundness require it. For
some relations, this enables malicious provers to glean infor-
mation about another prover’s witness. As a simple example,
the relation that checks whether two witnesses agree in the
first bit lets one prover learn the first bit of another prover’s
witness. When using a collaborative proof, one must consider
the worst-case leakage from the relation itself.
Significance
We’ve shown that collaborative proofs can be
constructed with little to no computational overhead com-
pared to single-prover proofs. Communication costs are
asymptotically Θ(λn), but concretely small over commod-
ity high-capacity links. In sum, most server-side applications
that can tolerate the (considerable) cost of a single-prover
proof should also be able to tolerate the cost of a collaborative
proof. We hope this makes succinct, public verifiability avail-
able to more applications—even when the secrets of multiple
parties are involved.
Acknowledgements
We thank Benedikt Bünz, Mark Braverman, Veronica Rivera,
Li-Yang Tan, Riad Wahby, and anonymous reviewers for help-
ful comments and advice. We thank Weikeng Chen, Pratyush
4304    31st USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

Mishra, Dev Ohja, and others for developing and maintaining
arkworks.
This work was funded by NSF, DARPA, a grant from ONR,
the Simons Foundation, and a Google Cloud Platforms grant.
Opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations ex-
pressed in this material are those of the authors and do not
necessarily reflect the views of DARPA.
References
[1] S. Addanki, K. Garbe, E. Jaffe, R. Ostrovsky, and A. Polychroniadou.
Prio+: Privacy preserving aggregate statistics via boolean shares, 2021.
https://ia.cr/2021/576.
[2] M. R. Albrecht, L. Grassi, C. Rechberger, A. Roy, and T. Tiessen.
MiMC: Efficient encryption and cryptographic hashing with minimal
multiplicative complexity. In ASIACRYPT, 2016.
[3] L. Babai, L. Fortnow, and C. Lund. Non-deterministic exponential
time has two-prover interactive protocols. In FOCS, 1990.
[4] J. Bar-Ilan and D. Beaver. Non-cryptographic fault-tolerant computing
in constant number of rounds of interaction. In 8th ACM PODC, 1989.
[5] Z. Bar-Yossef, T. S. Jayram, R. Kumar, and D. Sivakumar. An informa-
tion statistics approach to data stream and communication complexity.
Journal of Computer and System Sciences, 68(4):702–732, 2004.
[6] M. Barnett, B.-Y. E. Chang, R. DeLine, B. Jacobs, and K. R. M. Leino.
Boogie: A modular reusable verifier for object-oriented programs. In
International Symposium on Formal Methods for Components and
Objects, 2005.
[7] C. Baum, I. Damgård, and C. Orlandi. Publicly auditable secure
multi-party computation. In SCN, 2014.
[8] C. Baum, D. Escudero, A. Pedrouzo-Ulloa, P. Scholl, and J. R.
Troncoso-Pastoriza. Efficient protocols for oblivious linear function
evaluation from ring-LWE. In SCN, 2020.
[9] D. Beaver. Multiparty protocols tolerating half faulty processors. In
CRYPTO, 1990.
[10] Z. Beerliová-Trubíniová and M. Hirt. Perfectly-secure MPC with
linear communication complexity. In TCC, 2008.
[11] A. Beimel. Secure schemes for secret sharing and key distribution,
1996. PhD Thesis.
[12] M. Bellare and O. Goldreich. On defining proofs of knowledge. In
CRYPTO, 1993.
[13] E. Ben-Sasson, I. Bentov, Y. Horesh, and M. Riabzev. Fast reed-
solomon interactive oracle proofs of proximity. In ICALP 2018, 2018.
[14] E. Ben-Sasson, I. Bentov, Y. Horesh, and M. Riabzev. Scalable zero
knowledge with no trusted setup. In CRYPTO, 2019.
[15] E. Ben-Sasson, A. Chiesa, M. Green, E. Tromer, and M. Virza. Secure
sampling of public parameters for succinct zero knowledge proofs. In
IEEE S&P, 2015.
[16] E. Ben-Sasson, A. Chiesa, M. Riabzev, N. Spooner, M. Virza, and
N. P. Ward. Aurora: Transparent succinct arguments for R1CS. In
EUROCRYPT, 2019.
[17] E. Ben-Sasson, A. Chiesa, and N. Spooner. Interactive oracle proofs.
In TCC, 2016.
[18] E. Ben-Sasson, A. Chiesa, E. Tromer, and M. Virza. Scalable zero
knowledge via cycles of elliptic curves. In CRYPTO, 2014.
[19] E. Ben-Sasson, A. Chiesa, E. Tromer, and M. Virza. Succinct non-
interactive zero knowledge for a von neumann architecture.
In
USENIX Security, 2014.
[20] E. Ben-Sasson, S. Fehr, and R. Ostrovsky. Near-linear unconditionally-
secure multiparty computation with a dishonest minority. In CRYPTO,
2012.
[21] E. Ben-Sasson, L. Goldberg, S. Kopparty, and S. Saraf. DEEP-FRI:
Sampling outside the box improves soundness. In ITCS, 2020.
[22] F. Benhamouda, E. Boyle, N. Gilboa, S. Halevi, Y. Ishai, and A. Nof.
Generalized pseudorandom secret sharing and efficient straggler-
resilient secure computation. In TCC, 2021.
[23] N. Bitansky, R. Canetti, A. Chiesa, S. Goldwasser, H. Lin, A. Ru-
binstein, and E. Tromer. The hunting of the SNARK. Journal of
Cryptology, 30(4):989–1066, 2017.
[24] N. Bitansky and A. Chiesa. Succinct arguments from multi-prover
interactive proofs and their efficiency benefits. In CRYPTO, 2012.
[25] A. J. Blumberg, J. Thaler, V. Vu, and M. Walfish. Verifiable compu-
tation using multiple provers, 2014. https://eprint.iacr.org/
2014/846.
[26] P. Bogetoft, D. L. Christensen, I. Damgård, M. Geisler, T. Jakobsen,
M. Krøigaard, J. D. Nielsen, J. B. Nielsen, K. Nielsen, J. Pagter, M. I.
Schwartzbach, and T. Toft. Secure multiparty computation goes live.
In FC, 2009.
[27] D. Boneh, E. Boyle, H. Corrigan-Gibbs, N. Gilboa, and Y. Ishai. Zero-
knowledge proofs on secret-shared data via fully linear PCPs. In
CRYPTO, 2019.
[28] D. Boneh, E. Boyle, H. Corrigan-Gibbs, N. Gilboa, and Y. Ishai.
Lightweight techniques for private heavy hitters. In 2021 IEEE S&P,
2021.
[29] S. Bowe, A. Gabizon, and M. D. Green. A multi-party protocol for
constructing the public parameters of the pinocchio zk-SNARK. In
FC Workshops, 2019.
[30] E. Boyle, N. Gilboa, Y. Ishai, and A. Nof. Practical fully secure three-
party computation via sublinear distributed zero-knowledge proofs.
In ACM CCS, 2019.
[31] E. Boyle, N. Gilboa, Y. Ishai, and A. Nof. Efficient fully secure
computation via distributed zero-knowledge proofs. In ASIACRYPT,
2020.
[32] B. Braun. Compiling computations to constraints for verified compu-
tation. UT Austin Honors Thesis HR-12-10, 2012.
[33] B. Braun, A. J. Feldman, Z. Ren, S. Setty, A. J. Blumberg, and M. Wal-
fish. Verifying computations with state. In Proceedings of the twenty-
fourth ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles, 2013.
[34] J. Brickell and V. Shmatikov. Privacy-preserving graph algorithms in
the semi-honest model. In ASIACRYPT, 2005.
[35] B. Bünz, J. Bootle, D. Boneh, A. Poelstra, P. Wuille, and G. Maxwell.
Bulletproofs: Short proofs for confidential transactions and more. In
IEEE S&P, 2018.
[36] B. Bünz, B. Fisch, and A. Szepieniec. Transparent SNARKs from
DARK compilers. In EUROCRYPT, 2020.
[37] B. Bünz, M. Maller, P. Mishra, N. Tyagi, and P. Vesely. Proofs for
inner pairing products and applications. In TCC, 2021.
[38] B. Bünz, M. Maller, P. Mishra, N. Tyagi, and P. Vesely. Proofs for
inner pairing products and applications, 2019.
https://eprint.
iacr.org/2019/1177.
[39] K. Chida, D. Genkin, K. Hamada, D. Ikarashi, R. Kikuchi, Y. Lindell,
and A. Nof. Fast large-scale honest-majority MPC for malicious
adversaries. In CRYPTO, 2018.
[40] A. Chiesa, Y. Hu, M. Maller, P. Mishra, N. Vesely, and N. P. Ward.
Marlin: Preprocessing zkSNARKs with universal and updatable SRS.
In EUROCRYPT, 2020.
[41] A. Chiesa, D. Ojha, and N. Spooner.
Fractal: Post-quantum and
transparent recursive proofs from holography. In EUROCRYPT, 2020.
[42] G. Cormode, M. Mitzenmacher, and J. Thaler.
Practical verified
computation with streaming interactive proofs. In ITCS, 2012.
[43] H. Corrigan-Gibbs and D. Boneh. Prio: Private, robust, and scalable
computation of aggregate statistics. In NDSS, 2017.
[44] R. Cramer, I. Damgård, S. Dziembowski, M. Hirt, and T. Rabin. Effi-
cient multiparty computations secure against an adaptive adversary.
In EUROCRYPT, 1999.
[45] I. Damgård and J. B. Nielsen. Scalable and unconditionally secure
multiparty computation. In CRYPTO, 2007.
[46] I. Damgård, V. Pastro, N. P. Smart, and S. Zakarias.
Multiparty
computation from somewhat homomorphic encryption. In CRYPTO,
USENIX Association
31st USENIX Security Symposium    4305

2012.
[47] N. Daswani and M. Elbayadi. Big Breaches: Cybersecurity Lessons
for Everyone. Apress, 2021.
[48] A. Developers. Arkworks, 2020. https://github.com/arkworks-
rs.
[49] D. Evans, V. Kolesnikov, and M. Rosulek. A pragmatic introduction
to secure multi-party computation. 2017.
[50] M. Evans, A. W. Mathews, and M. Tom. Hospitals often charge
uninsured people the highest prices, new data show. The Wall Street
Journal, 2021.
[51] J. Frankle, S. Park, D. Shaar, S. Goldwasser, and D. J. Weitzner. Prac-
tical accountability of secret processes. In USENIX Security, 2018.
[52] G. Fuchsbauer, E. Kiltz, and J. Loss. The algebraic group model and
its applications. In CRYPTO, 2018.
[53] A. Gabizon, Z. J. Williamson, and O. Ciobotaru. PLONK: Permuta-
tions over lagrange-bases for oecumenical noninteractive arguments
of knowledge, 2019. https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/953.
[54] D. Genkin, Y. Ishai, and A. Polychroniadou. Efficient multi-party
computation: From passive to active security via secure SIMD circuits.
In CRYPTO, 2015.
[55] D. Genkin, Y. Ishai, M. Prabhakaran, A. Sahai, and E. Tromer. Circuits
resilient to additive attacks with applications to secure computation.
In ACM STOC, 2014.
[56] R. Gennaro, C. Gentry, B. Parno, and M. Raykova. Quadratic span
programs and succinct NIZKs without PCPs. In EUROCRYPT, 2013.
[57] R. Gennaro, M. O. Rabin, and T. Rabin. Simplified VSS and fast-track
multiparty computations with applications to threshold cryptography.
In 17th ACM PODC, 1998.
[58] O. Goldreich, S. Micali, and A. Wigderson. How to play any mental
game or A completeness theorem for protocols with honest majority.
In ACM STOC, 1987.
[59] S. Goldwasser, Y. T. Kalai, and G. N. Rothblum. Delegating compu-
tation: interactive proofs for muggles. In ACM STOC, 2008.
[60] S. Goldwasser, J. Killian, M. Ben-Or, and A. Wigderson. Multi-prover
interactive proofs: how to remove intractability assumptions. In STOC,
1988.
[61] S. D. Gordon, J. Katz, V. Kolesnikov, F. Krell, T. Malkin, M. Raykova,
and Y. Vahlis. Secure two-party computation in sublinear (amortized)
time. In ACM CCS, 2012.
[62] V. Goyal, H. Li, R. Ostrovsky, A. Polychroniadou, and Y. Song. AT-
LAS: Efficient and scalable MPC in the honest majority setting. In
CRYPTO 2021, Part II, 2021.
[63] V. Goyal and Y. Song.
Malicious security comes free in honest-
majority MPC, 2020. https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/134.
[64] V. Goyal, Y. Song, and C. Zhu. Guaranteed output delivery comes
free in honest majority MPC. In CRYPTO, 2020.
[65] L. Grassi, D. Kales, D. Khovratovich, A. Roy, C. Rechberger, and
M. Schofnegger.
Starkad and Poseidon: New hash functions for
zero knowledge proof systems, 2019. https://eprint.iacr.org/
2019/458.
[66] J. Groth. On the size of pairing-based non-interactive arguments. In
EUROCRYPT, 2016.
[67] J. Groth and M. Maller. Snarky signatures: Minimal signatures of
knowledge from simulation-extractable SNARKs. In CRYPTO, 2017.
[68] J. Y. Halpern and Y. Moses. Knowledge and common knowledge in a
distributed environment. J. ACM, 37(3):549–587, 1990.
[69] J. Håstad and A. Wigderson. The randomized communication com-
plexity of set disjointness. Theory of Computing, 3(1):211–219, 2007.
[70] D. Heath and V. Kolesnikov. Stacked garbling - garbled circuit pro-
portional to longest execution path. In CRYPTO, 2020.
[71] D. Heath and V. Kolesnikov.
LogStack: Stacked garbling with
O(blogb) computation. 2021.
[72] D. Heath, V. Kolesnikov, and S. Peceny. Masked triples - amortizing
multiplication triples across conditionals. 2021.
[73] Y. Ishai, M. Prabhakaran, and A. Sahai. Founding cryptography on
oblivious transfer - efficiently. In CRYPTO, 2008.
[74] W. jie Lu and J. Sakuma. Faster multiplication triplet generation from
homomorphic encryption for practical privacy-preserving machine
learning under a narrow bandwidth, 2018. https://eprint.iacr.
org/2018/139.
[75] S. Kanjalkar, Y. Zhang, S. Gandlur, and A. Miller. Publicly auditable
MPC-as-a-service with succinct verification and universal setup, 2021.
[76] A. Kate, G. M. Zaverucha, and I. Goldberg. Constant-size commit-
ments to polynomials and their applications. In ASIACRYPT, 2010.
[77] M. Kohlweiss, M. Maller, J. Siim, and M. Volkhov. Snarky ceremonies,
2021. https://ia.cr/2021/219.
[78] A. E. Kosba, C. Papamanthou, and E. Shi. xJsnark: A framework for
efficient verifiable computation. In IEEE S&P, 2018.
[79] K. R. M. Leino. This is boogie 2. manuscript KRML, 178(131):9,
2008.
[80] Y. Lindell. Fast cut-and-choose based protocols for malicious and
covert adversaries. In CRYPTO, 2013.
[81] Y. Lindell. How to simulate it - A tutorial on the simulation proof
technique, 2016. https://eprint.iacr.org/2016/046.
[82] Y. Lindell and A. Nof. A framework for constructing fast MPC over
arithmetic circuits with malicious adversaries and an honest-majority.
In ACM CCS, 2017.
[83] Y. Lindell, E. Oxman, and B. Pinkas. The IPS compiler: Optimizations,
variants and concrete efficiency. In CRYPTO, 2011.
[84] Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas. An efficient protocol for secure two-party
computation in the presence of malicious adversaries. In EURO-
CRYPT, 2007.
[85] Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas. Secure two-party computation via cut-and-
choose oblivious transfer. In TCC, 2011.
[86] K. Nayak, X. S. Wang, S. Ioannidis, U. Weinsberg, N. Taft, and E. Shi.
GraphSC: Parallel secure computation made easy. In IEEE S&P,
2015.
[87] R. Netravali, A. Sivaraman, S. Das, A. Goyal, K. Winstein, J. Mickens,
and H. Balakrishnan. Mahimahi: Accurate record-and-replay for
HTTP. In USENIX ATC, 2015.
[88] J. B. Nielsen and C. Orlandi. LEGO for two-party secure computation.
In TCC, 2009.
[89] P. S. Nordholt and M. Veeningen. Minimising communication in
honest-majority MPC by batchwise multiplication verification. In
ACNS, 2018.
[90] A. Ozdemir, F. Brown, and R. S. Wahby. Unifying compilers for
SNARKs, SMT, and more, 2020.
https://eprint.iacr.org/
2020/1586.
[91] B. Parno, J. Howell, C. Gentry, and M. Raykova. Pinocchio: Nearly
practical verifiable computation. In IEEE S&P, 2013.
[92] G. C. Platform. All networking pricing. https://cloud.google.
com/vpc/network-pricing.
[93] G. C. Platform. Pricing, compute engine. https://cloud.google.
com/compute/all-pricing.
[94] T. Rabin and M. Ben-Or. Verifiable secret sharing and multiparty
protocols with honest majority (extended abstract). In ACM STOC,
1989.
[95] D. Rathee, T. Schneider, and K. K. Shukla. Improved multiplication
triple generation over rings via RLWE-based AHE. In CANS 19,
2019.
[96] A. Sangers, M. van Heesch, T. Attema, T. Veugen, M. Wiggerman,
J. Veldsink, O. Bloemen, and D. Worm. Secure multiparty PageRank
algorithm for collaborative fraud detection. In FC, 2019.
[97] B. Schoenmakers, M. Veeningen, and N. de Vreede. Trinocchio:
Privacy-preserving outsourcing by distributed verifiable computation.
In ACNS, 2016.
[98] S. Setty, B. Braun, V. Vu, A. J. Blumberg, B. Parno, and M. Walfish.
Resolving the conflict between generality and plausibility in verified
computation. 2013.
[99] A. Shamir. How to share a secret. Communications of the ACM, 1979.
4306    31st USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

[100] N. P. Smart and Y. T. Alaoui. Distributing any elliptic curve based
protocol. In IMA International Conference on Cryptography and
Coding, 2019.
[101] J. Thaler. Time-optimal interactive proofs for circuit evaluation. In
CRYPTO, 2013.
[102] E. Torlak and R. Bodik. Growing solver-aided languages with rosette.
In Proceedings of the 2013 ACM international symposium on new
ideas, new paradigms, and reflections on programming & software,
2013.
[103] M. Veeningen.
Pinocchio-based adaptive zk-SNARKs and se-
cure/correct adaptive function evaluation. In AFRICACRYPT, 2017.
[104] V. Vu, S. T. V. Setty, A. J. Blumberg, and M. Walfish. A hybrid
architecture for interactive verifiable computation. In IEEE S&P,
2013.
[105] R. S. Wahby, M. Howald, S. J. Garg, a. shelat, and M. Walfish. Verifi-
able ASICs. In IEEE S&P, 2016.
[106] R. S. Wahby, S. T. V. Setty, Z. Ren, A. J. Blumberg, and M. Walfish.
Efficient RAM and control flow in verifiable outsourced computation.
In NDSS, 2015.
[107] R. S. Wahby, I. Tzialla, a. shelat, J. Thaler, and M. Walfish. Doubly-
efficient zkSNARKs without trusted setup. In IEEE S&P, 2018.
[108] M. Walfish and A. J. Blumberg. Verifying computations without
reexecuting them. Commun. ACM, 2015.
[109] H. Wu, W. Zheng, A. Chiesa, R. A. Popa, and I. Stoica. DIZK: A
distributed zero knowledge proof system. In USENIX Security, 2018.
[110] T. Xie, J. Zhang, Y. Zhang, C. Papamanthou, and D. Song. Libra:
Succinct zero-knowledge proofs with optimal prover computation. In
CRYPTO, 2019.
[111] Y. Zhang, D. Genkin, J. Katz, D. Papadopoulos, and C. Papamanthou.
vRAM: Faster verifiable RAM with program-independent preprocess-
ing. In IEEE S&P, 2018.
[112] Y. Zhang, S. Wang, X. Zhang, J. Dong, X. Mao, F. Long, C. Wang,
D. Zhou, M. Gao, and G. Sun. Pipezk: Accelerating zero-knowledge
proof with a pipelined architecture. In ISCA 2021, 2021.
A
Honest majority MPC for elliptic curve cir-
cuits
In this section we adapt the multiplication protocols of [45]
and [64] to products of scalars and group elements. We follow
the exposition of [63], which includes the protocols from both
works.
We adopt a few notational conventions. Bolded quantities
are vectors: · denotes inner product and ◦denotes Hadamard
product,. For x, a vector, xL and xR denote its left and right
halves and xi denotes an element. We assume all vector
lengths are a power of two; generalizing to other lengths
is straightforward. [v]d denotes that v is distributed among
the parties as degree-d Shamir shares. If the degree is omit-
ted, it is assumed to be t = ⌊N/2⌋. Lowercase letters denote
scalars and uppercase letters denote group elements. f and
its subcripts denote scalar polynomials, F and its subscripts
denote polynomials with group coefficients and a scalar vari-
able. Vectors of polynomials are bolded, and polynomials
(and vectors thereof) can be shared coefficient-wise. [f(x)]
denotes shares of each polynomial in f evaluated at public x.
Protocols G-DOUBLE-RAND, G-DOUBLE-RAND, and
G-COIN are exactly like RAND, DOUBLE-RAND, and COIN,
save that the operate on Shamir shares of group elements
rather than field elements.
The rest of the protocols are adapted to scalar-group prod-
ucts as follows. DE-LINEARIZATION (Protocol 13, [63])
reduces checking a sequence of multiplication tuples (a
Hadamard product); it is adapted to G-HADAMARD-CK,
which reduces checking a sequence of scalar-point multipli-
cation triples to checking a scalar-point inner product.
G-HADAMARD-CK([a] ∈Fn,[A],[B] ∈Gn)
Shows: a◦A = B
α ←COIN()
α ←(αi)n
i=1
G-IP-CK(α ◦[a],[A],α ·[B])
G-IP-COMPUTE adapts EXTEND-MULT (Protocol 10,
[63]) from computing a field inner product to computing a
scalar-point inner product. EXTEND-MULT is itself a general-
ization of the multiplication and degree reduction protocols
of [45].
G-IP-COMPUTE([a] ∈Fn,[A] ∈Gn)
Computes a◦A = B
Everyone computes the inner product on their shares
Interpret the results as [B]2t
[X]t,[X]2t ←G-DOUBLE-RAND()
All parties send [B−X]2t to Party 1
Party 1 opens B−X and reshares it as [B−X]t
return [B] ←[B−X]t +[X]t
G-IP-FOLD adapts EXTEND-COMPRESS (Protocol 12,
[63]). The original protocol compresses N different inner
product checks into one. The new one compresses 2 point-
scalar inner product checks into one.
G-IP-FOLD([x] ∈Fn,[X] ∈Gn,[P] ∈G,
[y] ∈Fn,[Y] ∈Gn,[Q] ∈G)
Reduces x·X = P∧y·Y = Q to a·A = R
Interpolate shares of lines [f] such that
fi(1) = xi and fi(2) = yi for i ∈[n]
Interpolate shares of lines [F] such that
Fi(1) = Xi and Fi(2) = Yi for i ∈[n]
[z] ←[f(3)];
[Z] ←[F(3)]
[S] ←G-IP-COMPUTE([z],[Z])
Interpolate shares of a parabola

Fp

such that
Fp(1) = P, Fp(2) = Q, and Fp(3) = S
α ←COIN()
[a] ←[f(α)];
[A] ←[F(α)];
[R] ←

Fp(α)

return ([a],[A],[R])
Finally, G-IP-CK adapts MULT-VERIFICATION (Protocol
17, [63]), from a recursive protocol for product checking to
a recursive protocol for point-scalar inner product checking.
G-PROD-CK is the adapted base case (Protocol 15, [63]).
USENIX Association
31st USENIX Security Symposium    4307

G-IP-CK([x] ∈Fn,[X] ∈Gn,[P] ∈G)
Shows: x·X = P
while n > 1:
[L] ←G-IP-COMPUTE([xL],[XL])
[x],[X],P ←G-IP-FOLD([xL],[XL],[L],
[xR],[XR],[P−L])
n ←n/2
G-PROD-CK([x1],[X1],[P])
G-PROD-CK([x] ∈F,[X] ∈G,[P] ∈G)
Shows: x·X = P
[r] ←RAND()
[R] ←RAND()
[S] ←G-IP-COMPUTE([r],[R])
[y],[Y],[Q] ←G-IP-FOLD([(x,r)],[(X,R)],[(P,S)])
All parties open y, Y, and Q and check y·Y = Q
B
Communication Lower Bound
In this section, we show a Ω(n) lower bound on the commu-
nication needed to compute a collaborative proof when the
witness is additively shared among two parties.
Our bound applies to proof systems that are honestly sound:
a prover following the proving protocol with an invalid wit-
ness produces a valid proof with negligible probability.
Definition 2. A proof (Setup,Prove,Verify) is honestly
sound if for all (x,w) /∈R,
Pr

Verify(pp,x,π) = 1 :
pp ←Setup(1λ,R)
π ←Prove(pp,x,w)

= negl(λ)
Surprisingly, knowledge soundness does not imply honest
soundness. While the former guarantees that a verifier can
extract a valid witness from an acceptable proof, it makes no
guarantees about the witness that the prover used.
As an example, consider the (trivial) relation
R= = {(x ∈F,w ∈F) : x = w}
For this relation, define the proof system (Setup,Prove,
Verify) where Setup is a no-op, Prove always returns a null
proof π = ⊥, and Verify always return 1. This proof system
is knowledge-sound, but not honestly sound.
Regardless, it’s easy to show that the SNARKs we study
are honestly sound.
It suffices to show a Ω(n) communication bound for
checking a shared R1CS witness. If there were a low-
communication protocol for generating a proof, parties could
just check a shared witness by constructing and checking the
proof. Per completeness and honest soundness, the proof is
valid if and only if the witness was valid, except with negligi-
ble probability.
Unfortunately, the communication-hard problem DISJn
reduces to checking additively shared R1CS witnesses. DISJn
asks whether the two length-n bit-strings do not share a one
at any index; i.e., DISJn(a,b) = Vn
i=1 ¬(ai ∧bi). DISJn has
been shown to have Ω(n) randomized 2-party communication
complexity [5, 69]. DISJn(a,b) reduces to R1CS checking as
follows. P1, who has a, interprets it as a zero-one vector in Fn
and sets x0 ←a;y0 ←⃗0;z0 ←⃗0. Simultaneously,P2, interprets
b as a zero-one vector in Fn and sets x1 ←⃗0;y1 ←b;z1 ←⃗0.
With this reduction, a and b are disjoint if and only if (x0,x1),
(y0,y1), and (z0,z1) are sharings of x,y,z such that x◦y = z,
an R1CS relation.
Note that this is only a limited bound. First, it requires
Ω(n)—not Ω(nlog|F|)—communication. We suspect the
stronger bound holds as well, but do not know of an existing
communication complexity result that it immediately follows
from. Second, the bound applies only to additively shared
witnesses.
C
KZG for Shared Polynomials
This appendix is available in the paper’s full version: https:
//ia.cr/2021/1530.
D
PA-MPC from collaborative proofs
This appendix is available in the paper’s full version: https:
//ia.cr/2021/1530.
E
Unrolled Groth16/SPDZ Protocol
This appendix is available in the paper’s full version: https:
//ia.cr/2021/1530.
4308    31st USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

