This paper is included in the Proceedings of the 
33rd USENIX Security Symposium.
August 14–16, 2024 • Philadelphia, PA, USA
978-1-939133-44-1
Open access to the Proceedings of the 
33rd USENIX Security Symposium 
is sponsored by USENIX.
Leakage-Abuse Attacks Against 
Structured Encryption for SQL
Alexander Hoover, University of Chicago; Ruth Ng, Daren Khu, Yao’An Li, 
Joelle Lim, and Derrick Ng, DSO National Laboratories; Jed Lim, NUS High 
School of Mathematics and Science; Yiyang Song, Raffles Institution
https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity24/presentation/hoover

Leakage-Abuse Attacks Against Structured Encryption for SQL
Alexander Hoover∗
University of Chicago
Ruth Ng∗
DSO National Laboratories
Daren Khu†
DSO National Laboratories
Yao’An Li†
DSO National Laboratories
Joelle Lim†
DSO National Laboratories
Derrick Ng†
DSO National Laboratories
Jed Lim‡
NUS High School of Mathematics and Science
Yiyang Song‡
Raffles Institution
Abstract
Structured Encryption (StE) enables a client to securely store
and query data stored on an untrusted server. Recent con-
structions of StE have moved beyond basic queries, and now
support large subsets of SQL. However, the security of these
constructions is poorly understood, and no systematic analysis
has been performed.
We address this by providing the first leakage-abuse attacks
against StE for SQL schemes. Our attacks can be run by a
passive adversary on a server with access to some information
about the distribution of underlying data, a common model in
prior work. They achieve partial query recovery against select
operations and partial plaintext recovery against join opera-
tions. We prove the optimality and near-optimality of two new
attacks, in a Bayesian inference framework. We complement
our theoretical results with an empirical investigation testing
the performance of our attacks against real-world data and
show they can successfully recover a substantial proportion
of queries and plaintexts.
In addition to our new attacks, we provide proofs show-
ing that the conditional optimality of a previously proposed
leakage-abuse attack and that inference against join operations
is NP-hard in general.
1
Introduction
Cloud storage is a ubiquitous and convenient solution for
clients who want to store their data on remote servers. This
service, running without encryption, can provide a client con-
venience by allowing the server to store large amounts of data
and to process queries over the data. However, moving data
on to third party servers comes with security and privacy risks
to the information stored. Unfortunately, standard encryption
techniques are not useful to clients wanting to outsource the
storage and computation of a queryable database, because a
∗These authors contributed equally to the project
†These authors contributed equally to the project
‡These authors contributed equally to the project
server cannot perform queries over rows which are encrypted
in standard fashion.
Early work on encrypted databases [2, 41] proposed so-
lutions which had unclear security guarantees, using tech-
niques that were not well understood. However, later work
[6,11,26,37] proposed a framework for what are now known
as leakage-abuse attacks (LAAs) against these schemes. In
their work, the authors give adversarial models and simulate
attacks showing that plausible adversaries could infer or re-
cover data, queries that were performed by the client, or other
potentially sensitive information.
Structured Encryption (StE) [17] provides an attractive
combination of efficiency and query support, and allows for
servers to learn a quantified amount of information called
leakage. Leakage captures the information (e.g. metadata,
patterns) revealed about the StE data and queries within an
abstract mathematical model. However, the implications of
this leakage for cryptanalysis by a real-world adversary are
not immediately clear. For many StE schemes, follow up
work [10,29,42,48] has shown sometimes devastating LAAs
against the leakage.
A recent line of work has been to design schemes in the
StE framework for SQL applications, with a focus on sup-
porting select and join queries [13, 32, 49]. Because SQL
is such a wide spread and expressive query language, these
StE schemes would be very useful to a client wishing to out-
source their database to a server. And, as these and similar
schemes become increasingly used, it is important to consider
the practical security of the systems in real world settings. For
example, work has already shown other practical vulnerabili-
ties in complex non-SQL systems like MongoDB’s queryable
encryption [27], and many of these vulnerabilities could be
avoided with a proper analysis before deployment.
However, the potential for leakage-abuse within StE for
SQL schemes has not been studied at all. We seek to address
this gap in the security analysis of StE for SQL schemes, by
extending the established LAA framework to SQL select and
join operations which compose more complex SQL queries.
We then design the first LAAs against the above StE schemes,
USENIX Association
33rd USENIX Security Symposium    7411

and evaluate their effectiveness both theoretically and experi-
mentally.
Our contributions. We evaluate the leakage of modern StE
for SQL schemes [13,32,49] through leakage-abuse attacks.
Our attacks assume a passive, honest-but-curious server with
auxiliary data, similar to prior work [6,26,37]. Our attacks
enable an adversary to infer the plaintext values in SQL select
queries and to infer plaintext values within columns after
a join operation. For complex or nested SQL queries, our
attacks can be applied to any or all of the intermediate select
or join operations.
Specifically, our evaluation of modern StE for SQL
schemes includes the following contributions:
• We develop the first LAA for query inference against select
queries in StE for SQL schemes and provide a proof that
it is near-optimal. After selection queries are made, our
attack can often recover the plaintext parts of those queries.
This attack uses dynamic programming to generalize prior
attacks against deterministic encryption, and in Section 3.1,
we outline how it applies beyond StE for SQL to many
searchable encryption schemes.
• We develop the first LAAs for plaintext inference against
performing a many-many join in StE for SQL schemes.
Whenever a join is performed, our attacks can exploit the
leakage to recover the underlying values of the encrypted
rows in the join. Our attacks work well in practice, but we
show that optimal inference is NP-hard in general.
• We give an optimal LAA against many-many joins in the
(common) case when the join output contains every row
from both columns.
• We perform an empirical analysis of our attacks using a real
data set, and show they almost always recover a substantial
fraction of their targets. For many columns, before even
20% of unique values are selected, our select attack recovers
10-20% of the values and over 40% of the rows that were
queried. Our best join attacks are arguably more devastating,
recovering 30-40% of the unique values and over 60% of
the rows in most experiments.
• In the appendix, we provide an algorithm to partition a
set in a way that approximately maximizes a product of
sums. This algorithm is useful as a subroutine in our at-
tacks against the leakage of join operations and may be of
independent interest.
Our attacks follow from two main technical insights. For
our attack against selections, we show how to exploit partial
frequency information, where prior attacks only worked with
full information. For our attacks against joins, we observe
that the leakage between the columns can give an adversary
significantly more information to abuse. Whether it is partial
or not, the server observes correlated frequency information
across the columns, which allows them to make inferences
more accurately.
In addition to the above, we identify how the type (i.e.
one-one, one-many, many-many) of a join affects the leakage
revealed to a passive adversary. Our work illustrates practical
impacts of security in SQL systems that can depend both on
the distribution of underlying data and the joins which can be
performed in the database being queried. Our observations
and attacks demonstrate that certain join patterns are more
vulnerable to inference attacks than others, and we conclude
that some care should be given to the database schema before
deploying to a structured encryption scheme.
Attack Evaluation. For our theoretical results, our proofs
measure the theoretical success of our attacks in the Bayesian
inference framework, following prior work [6]. We consider
an attack “optimal” if it returns a maximum likelihood esti-
mator for the information it is trying to infer.
For our experimental results, we use public Chicago data
and simulate a scenario where the city moves from public
release to using a StE for SQL system. We use the year prior
to the hypothetical change as auxiliary information for our
adversaries who passively infer information for later years.
Limitations and Mitigations. Despite our use of real-
world data, it is important to understand that the leakage that
we attack is highly data-dependent in general, making it diffi-
cult to make broad conclusions about these scheme’s security.
In general, we find that columns with few domain values or
with highly skewed data is most vulnerable to our attacks. So,
one way to mitigate is to study the distribution of data and
queries for a particular database and identify potentially vul-
nerabilities. In such a case, one could modify the schema or
implement specific mitigation techniques for the vulnerable
information.
To generically mitigate against these new attacks, one could
consider using some of the same mitigations proposed in prior
work [45, 46], such as volume-hiding [33] or differentially
private [1,40] structurally encrypted primitives.1 Additionally,
one work [13] provides a Modern StE for SQL construction
which circumvents the join leakage that we attack at the cost
of client computation. While these kinds of solutions would
render our attacks ineffective, it is unclear whether new simi-
larly effective attacks could be developed.
To have stronger and more well-understood security, one
should instead use more “heavy weight” cryptography such as
functional encryption [8], fully homomorphic encryption [21],
oblivious RAM [16,24], or secure multiparty computation [5].
However, these will come at the cost of increased server and/or
client computation.
Organization. In Section 2, we include preliminaries, in-
cluding a high level overview of SQL queries, and review
some of the related work. In Section 3, we explain the leak-
1However, it is not clear what privacy parameter “ε” would need to be
used to effectively mitigate. It may require so much privacy that one would
be better off using volume-hiding primitives.
7412    33rd USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

age that provide attacks against in our paper. In Section 4,
we present our partial query recovery attack, including a for-
mal attack model, optimality conditions, and experimental
results. We differ the proof of the attack’s near-optimality to
Appendix A of the full version. In Section 5, we present our
attacks for plaintext value recovery, including our optimal
special case attack, three general case attacks, and our experi-
mental results. Finally, in Section 6, we provide a summary of
our findings and present alternatives and new ways forward
to improve StE for SQL schemes.
1.1
Adversarial Models
We follow an adversarial model that has been considered in
prior leakage-abuse attack work [6,26,37]. Throughout the
paper, we assume that a server is running one of the mod-
ern StE for SQL schemes [13,32,49]. Unfortunately, these
modern schemes are only provided formally and do not have
implementations which can be directly attacked. However,
our threat model has been practically considered for servers
running other structurally encrypted systems or “smash-and-
grab” adversaries that extract equivalent leakage from server
logs [19,27,37].
We consider persistent passive adversaries on the servers
which cannot influence or modify the queries or data. All
of our attacks target leakage which is common in this set-
ting for all schemes listed above. Our adversaries additionally
have access to some prior knowledge, called auxiliary infor-
mation, about the distribution of data in the database that’s
being stored on the server. Finally, we assume the adversary
knows which column(s) the client queries and, when the ex-
act same query is performed, which is often either leaked
directly by the protocol or can be inferred from deterministic
tokens or query result sizes. In prior work [37], the adversary
has to determine which column was queried through some
additional information (i.e. the number of unique values in
the column). For simplicity, we assume the adversary has
access to this information, since the exact method to deter-
mine the targeted column may vary slightly depending on the
underlying database and StE scheme chosen.
Query Scope. We narrow our scope to just attacking select
and join operations. Modern StE for SQL schemes support
more complicated queries by allowing a client to nest these
operations and leave and projection or filtering to be per-
formed client side after decryption. We emphasize that there
are no proposed StE for SQL schemes which support the full
generality and expressiveness of SQL. Modern StE for SQL
schemes [13,32,49] only support encrypted query process-
ing for the basic selection and join operations outlined in
Section 2.
In these schemes, the client may also issue more compli-
cated queries by nesting the basic operations, running them
on intermediate tables. Our adversaries, with distributional
information about the targeted columns, can calculate the
auxiliary distributions for intermediate SQL tables. Then,
using the access pattern of the encrypted query processing,
selects and joins on the intermediate table(s) can be attacked.
Furthermore, when we attack joins, we consider the (to be
defined later) cross-column equality of the encrypted rows
between two columns. If multiple joins are composed, then
we could run even stronger attacks by considering the cross-
column equality between each of the different joins together.
So, because complex queries are still vulnerable to our attacks
(and maybe to even stronger attacks), we focus on the most
elementary operations for simplicity and generality.
Attack Goals. When attacking select operations, the goal
of the adversary is to determine the values the user is selecting
(i.e. query recovery). The adversary will observe the sizes of
the query results for select operations. Then, the adversary
uses this and the auxiliary information to infer the most likely
queries performed by a client.
For attacks against join operations, the adversary observes
the access pattern of the structured encryption algorithm for
the duration of the join. The goal of the adversary is to infer
the data in the columns that are joined upon (i.e. plaintext
recovery) using its auxiliary information and the observed
access pattern.
Despite two different attack goals, the leakage of volumes
from selections and from access patterns of joins are very
similar. For both selects and joins, our attacks take as input
some auxiliary information and observed leakage pattern. The
output is a guess of which plaintext values correspond to
which groups in the observed pattern. This guess has the
same output format but will correspond to the predicted set
of queries (select) or to the data values in the columns (join).
2
Background
Notation. Given a positive integer n, let [n] = {1,...,n}. Sim-
ilarly, for two integers m < n, we write [m,n] = {m,(m +
1),...,n} (with the exception of [0,1], which represents the
real numbers between 0 and 1). We write the image of a
function f : A →B as Im(f) = {b ∈B : ∃a ∈A, f(a) = b}.
We use Dist(A) to describe the set of distributions over a
finite set A (i.e. a function ρ : A →[0,1] is in Dist(A) if and
only if ∑a∈A ρ(a) = 1).
SQL Queries. We concern ourselves with two main SQL
operations in this paper, selections and joins. In particular, we
focus on how these operations work on one or two columns
in a database, and we will define select and join operations
abstractly, ignoring details such as projections, hierarchical
joins, and returning columns not involved in the SQL query.
This simplified view of joins and selects captures the nec-
essary aspects of the operations to understand the leakage
of encrypted SQL databases we attack. Figure 1 shows how
these basic elements of SQL queries operate on the tables T1
and T2.
USENIX Association
33rd USENIX Security Symposium    7413

T1
id1
C1
1
Ari
2
Cal
3
Ari
4
Cal
5
Ari
6
Cal
7
Bob
T2
id2
C2
C3
1
Bob
Math
2
Cal
Chem
3
Bob
CS
4
Ari
CS
5
Bob
Bio
6
Ari
Bio
7
Eve
Bio
SEL(Bob,C2)
id2
C2
C3
1
Bob
Math
3
Bob
CS
5
Bob
Bio
JOIN(C1,C2)
id1
id2
C1,C2
C3
1
4
Ari
CS
3
4
Ari
CS
5
4
Ari
CS
1
6
Ari
Bio
3
6
Ari
Bio
5
6
Ari
Bio
7
1
Bob
Math
7
3
Bob
CS
7
5
Bob
Bio
2
2
Cal
Chem
4
2
Cal
Chem
6
2
Cal
Chem
Figure 1: Examples of SQL type queries on tables T1,T2 and
the output of example select and join operations.
We will treat columns as a list of N values (r1,...,rN).
Each of these values comes from some set of n values V =
{v1,...,vn}. We refer to each element of the column as a “row”
which takes on a single value (i.e. ri ∈V). In a traditional
database, this may instead be called a cell or entry while a
row refers to the cells across many columns. However, since
our attacks use one column from each relevant table, we call
these rows.
A select is performed with a predicate on a single table. The
operation returns a list of rows from the table which return
true for the predicate in question. The only predicate that
we will consider in this paper is a simple equality predicate,
so our selects will return all instances of one value in the
column. For simplicity, we introduce a function which takes
the equality predicate and the column being selected on and
returns a set of indices corresponding to rows in the column
which are equal to that value. For example, we write
SEL(Bob,C2) = {1,3,5},
as the abstracted selection from the example in Figure 1.
An (inner) join is performed between two tables on one
column from each table. For our purposes, we only care about
the result of the join on the two columns being joined upon,
and all joins will be (equi)joins that return only matching
values. So, a join will return a new column (or table generally)
with a row for every matching pair of values between the first
and second column. For simplicity, we consider the function to
just output a set of matching tuples corresponding to matching
rows. For example, we write
JOIN(C1,C2) = {(1,4),(3,4),(5,4),(1,6),(3,6),(5,6),
(7,1),(7,3),(7,5),(2,2),(4,2),(6,2)},
for the join shown in Figure 1.
2.1
Related Work
We recall some alternative constructions for processing SQL
queries with cryptographic tools. We additionally recall some
of the leakage-abuse attacks against those and other related
schemes.
Before using the structured encryption framework, some
constructions used weaker or property-preserving primitives
[41] to support a restricted class of SQL queries on a database.
This sparked a line of work attacking these types of construc-
tions [6,7,11,26,36,37].
Meanwhile, the structured encryption framework was first
introduced in [17]. The framework has since been used to cre-
ate structurally encrypted databases supporting certain SQL
queries [13,32,49]. Attacks against these systems, however,
have only begun to be analyzed [19, 31], and the practical
security of such systems remains an open question. However,
other uses of the structured encryption framework are known
to be vulnerable to other leakage-abuse attacks [10,29,42,48].
Our select attacks are also applicable to searchable encryp-
tion schemes. This line of work focused on reducing leakage
while maintaining efficiency. While early works had leak-
age equivalent to property-preserving schemes (and therefore
are vulnerable to the same attacks), more recent work has
given efficient schemes that leak only query and access pat-
terns [12,18]. Most leakage-abuse attacks introduced against
such schemes have focused on specific schemes or differ-
ent adversarial models and/or different leakage than what is
considered in this work [4,11,22,38,42,44,46].
There is also a line of work considering generic leakage-
abuse against such schemes which only exploit the search
pattern, access pattern, or volume pattern without additional
information [7,20,25,34].
In addition to the structured encryption framework, there
are approaches to encrypted search that make use of tools such
as functional encryption [8], fully homomorphic encryption
[21], oblivious RAM [24], or secure multiparty computation
[5]. These schemes generally have less leakage but come at a
significant theoretical and/or practical efficiency cost.
2.2
Comparison to Other Attacks
Before presenting our attacks, we take a closer look at some
other approaches to leakage-abuse in prior work. This will
identify some of our key differences and where we fit into the
body of related literature.
We are the first to consider attacks against Structured En-
cryption (StE) for SQL; however, we will compare (mostly)
7414    33rd USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

against attacks against Searchable Encryption (SSE), since
there is some overlap between those attacks and attacks that
apply to StE for SQL. For reference, a recent comparison of
attacks against searchable encryption (SSE) is nicely summa-
rized in prior work [45,46]. We also discuss our own threat
model in Section 1.1 in more depth and only focus on the
differences between our work and other works.
First, many threat models against SSE or Dynamic SSE
(DSSE) assume an active adversary [7,47,48], which allows
for either data insertion or adversarial queries to be issued. In
our work, we consider a weaker passive adversary who only
tries to infer information about the underlying data or client
activity.
Among the work on passive adversaries, there are attacks in
which the adversary knows some or all of the underlying data
[7,11,38,46]. In our threat model, our adversaries only have
access to only distributional information about the underlying
data, a weaker assumption than partial knowledge. There are
also attacks which work for adversaries without even this
distributional assumption [7,20,25,34].
The final difference that we consider is related to the type
of leakage that is abused, which influences how present the
adversary needs to be. For example, some prior work has
considered “snapshot” or “smash-and-grab” adversaries [6,
19, 27, 37], who only access a server running an encrypted
system once. In contrast, we consider a persistent adversary
who observes the access pattern and activity of the server as
queries are processed. We note, however, for some practical
systems recent work has shown persistent adversary attacks
may be possible from a single snapshot through the use of
server logs [27].
The most similar work to our own are covered in a line of
attacks such as [29,39,42]. These provide some of the most
similar threat models to the ones that we consider. However,
these attacks are against (sometimes specific) deployments
of SSE rather than StE for SQL, which provides some key
differences in the attack setting. For example, SSE deployed
for keyword-document lookup will have the same document
appear for different keywords, whereas two queries selecting
on the same column with different values will never have
rows overlap (for the restricted class of queries supported by
StE for SQL schemes). This means that our attacks do not
actually require access pattern leakage and could be run as a
computer-in-the-middle with volume leakage.
Additionally, we are the first paper to consider any attacks
against cross-column equality leakage, because this leakage
pattern is unique to StE for SQL schemes and not present in
previous SSE literature.
3
Leakage of Encrypted Databases
Leakage of select and join operations among current en-
crypted SQL database solutions broadly fall into a handful of
categories. In this section, we will outline the type of leakage
that we will provide attacks against. Broadly, we categorize
our attacks into attacks against selections and attacks against
joins.
3.1
Select Leakage
We begin by focusing on the column equality leakage pattern,
which our attacks exploit in Section 4.
As prior work has observed, some SQL supporting schemes
such as CryptDB [41] or Microsoft’s Always Encrypted sys-
tem [3] employ weakened primitives such as deterministic
encryption to perform select operations by the server. These
schemes will effectively reveal a deterministically created ci-
phertext of every row value in the column selected upon. The
more formal leakage associated with this pattern is what we
call the complete column equality (c-eq), because the server
can check the equality between any two rows by checking if
they are the same ciphertext.
This leakage pattern is well studied in prior work [6, 11,
26, 37]. However, we further this work by proving an opti-
mality result and separation for one of the known attacks in
Appendix A of the full version.
More recent work in structured encryption supports sim-
ple equality select operations without weakened primitives
[13, 32, 49]. However, these encrypted SQL databases still
leak the query equality and volume to an honest-but-curious
server. Specifically, the server is able to know when a select
is repeated (query equality) and which columns and rows are
repeated between different queries.
For example, a client querying columns C1 and C2 from
our example tables in Figure 1, may issues 4 select queries,
corresponding to:
SEL(Ari,C1),SEL(Ari,C2),SEL(Bob,C1),SEL(Ari,C1)
and a server could learn that the first and last queries were
the same and that the third query was on the same column as
the first and last. However, they would not immediately know
which specific values were queried. The final relevant aspect
of this is that the server would know how many (and which)
rows are returned to the client during each of the queries. In
this toy example, this would allow a server to learn that there
is some value in C1 which appears 3 times (Ari), another that
appears 1 time (Bob), and a value in C2 which appears 2 times
(Ari).
A server, after observing just a few queries, can determine
the sizes of these equality groups, which are sets of row ci-
phertexts sharing the same underlying value.
After a client has queried every value in the relevant col-
umn, this leakage becomes equivalent to the complete equality
leakage. However, before all values are queried, there can still
be substantial leakage to the adversary. Especially in instances
where a few values dominate most of the rows, this leakage
could allow an adversary to infer a lot of the underlying infor-
mation about the queries being performed.
USENIX Association
33rd USENIX Security Symposium    7415

Complete
Incomplete
One-One
-
-
One-Many
c-eq
i-eq
Many-Many
c-cross
i-cross
Figure 2: Table showing the leakage available to a server
depending on the join type.
Throughout this paper, we refer to this pattern as incomplete
column equality or partial equality (i-eq). We explore this
more fully and provide a new near-optimal attack against this
leakage in Section 4.
Searchable Encryption. For simplicity, we discuss our
attacks against this leakage in the context of encrypted SQL
databases, but we observe that our attacks against encrypted
SQL select queries can be applied directly to many searchable
encryption (SSE) works. The majority of schemes from the
SSE and encrypted multimap literature which achieve practi-
cal (i.e. linear) efficiency (e.g. [9,12,14,15,17,18,23,43]) and
encrypted multimaps supporting simple equality predicates
as a select operation will similarly leak the equality pattern
of rows returned to an honest-but-curious server. Our attacks
are novel in this setting provide a new approach to an existing
line of work [29,39,42].
3.2
Join Leakage
There are a few techniques and constructions which pro-
vide support for server-computed joins on encrypted SQL
databases. This includes the Adjustable Key Join technique
used within CryptDB [41], the fully precomputed join indexes
(SPX, OPX and FpSj [13,32,49]), and finally some structured
encryption schemes with advanced security (Secure-Join and
JXT [28,30]).
We identify generic and previously unanalyzed leakage
present in every one of these schemes which we call the
cross-column equality pattern. When issuing a join query, all
of these schemes allow the server to observe pairs of rows
which have matching values. This allows the server to observe
the equality pattern of the rows which are output in the join.
This reveals both the equality groups within each column (as
with the column equality pattern), but additionally reveals the
equality across the columns. For example, the join represented
in Figure 1 would reveal to the server that there is some value
(Ari) which occurs 3 times in C1 and 2 times in C2, another
value (Bob) which occurs 1 time in C1 and 3 times in C2, and
a third value (Cal) which occurs 3 times in C1 and 1 time in
C2.
However, despite this generic leakage being shared across
the proposed schemes, the join type of the join being per-
formed informs how the leakage can be exploited, which we
summarize in Figure 2. We distinguish join types by whether
it is a one-one, one-many, or many-many join and whether
the join is complete or incomplete.
The first set of terms inform the uniqueness of values in
the columns joined on respectively. A one-one join has no
repeated value in either column, a one-many join has no re-
peated value in one column, and a many-many join may have
repeated values in either column. We call a join “complete”
if every row has a matching row in the opposite column (i.e.
the join outputs every row from both tables at least once), and
otherwise the row is said to be incomplete. As an example, our
join example in Figure 1, is an incomplete many-many join. It
is incomplete because Eve does not appear in the join output,
and it is many-many because both columns have values which
appear multiple times (e.g. Ari).
For one-one joins (such as many primary key-foreign key
joins), all the server observes is a set of encrypted row pairs,
none of which repeat. So, there is no hope for a server, even
with auxiliary information, to infer the underlying values.
During one-many joins, the server may observe that multi-
ple rows, in the column allowing repeated values, match with
the same value in the other column. This gives a server infor-
mation about the sizes of equality groups in the column with
the repeated values, since rows with the same value in the
repeats column will be output with the same encrypted row in
the unique column. When a join is complete and one-many,
the cross-column equality pattern reduces to the complete
column equality (c-eq) of the column with repeated values,
and similarly, it reduces to the incomplete column equality
(i-eq) when the join is incomplete.
Finally, while performing a many-many join, the server
observes encrypted pairs of matching rows across the columns.
This is a unique pattern which reveals more than just the
equality within the columns. The adversary learns either the
complete cross-column equality (c-cross) or the incomplete
cross-column equality (i-cross), if the join is complete or
incomplete respectively. This leakage is strictly more than the
respective equality leakage of the two columns because the
server learns both the equality group sizes within as well as
across the columns in the join.
In this scenario, the server could run equality pattern attacks
on the individual columns, but they may be able to outperform
those attacks by knowing the rows which are equal between
the two columns. In Section 5, we give new attacks which
make use of this cross-column equality pattern and show
that this additional leakage does improve the performance of
inference attacks.
4
Select Query Recovery
In Section 3.1, we sketch how encrypted SQL systems leak the
column equality pattern as queries are made. In this section,
we consider this leakage more formally and outline a new
attack against incomplete column equality and evaluate its
performance against real-world data. In Appendix A of the
full version, we prove that it is near-optimal as well.
Attack Model. The formalism for our leakage-abuse at-
tacks follows that of prior work [6] but with some differences
7416    33rd USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

in notation. The leakage input to our algorithms is a vector
⃗c = (c1,...,cm,u) which contains the sizes of each of the m
leaked “equality groups” (in ascending order without loss
of generality) and finally the number of rows without an ob-
served equality group is included as the number u, which can
be computed from the leakage discussed in Section 3.1.
For example, if the a client made three queries on the col-
umn C2 from Figure 1 corresponding to the sets:
SEL(Bob,C2),SEL(Cal,C2),SEL(Ari,C2),
then the server would learn three equality groups sizes 3,1,
and 2 respectively and would know there is 1 row (row 7)
which had not been returned on any query. So such an adver-
sary would have the leakage input⃗c = (1,2,3,1).
In addition to the leakage input, the adversary receives
some auxiliary information in the form of a distribution over
values, ρ : V →[0,1] where ∑v∈V ρ(v) = 1. Intuitively, we
expect this distribution to describe the plaintext distribution
that the column values are each independently drawn from.
In such a setting, we design our algorithms to find the most
likely mapping between the equality groups and the plaintext
valuesV. So, our attack outputs an injective function f : [m] →
V which represents the guessed value that underlies each
equality group. Throughout, we call this kind of function a
plaintext mapping.
Optimality. We consider an attack optimal if it returns
a function that maximizes the likelihood of observing the
given equality groups, assuming that the plaintexts are drawn
from the distribution ρ and that f is the true mapping. More
formally, we want an algorithm which returns
argmax
f
Pr[⃗c|f = f,ρ],
where f is the true plaintext mapping, modeled as a uniformly
random injective function. This probability is shorthand, intro-
duced in [6], for the probability that we would observe⃗c if f
were the true plaintext mapping and rows were independently
sampled from ρ.
When analyzing this probability under these assumptions,
we can write it in a convenient and simple form. Specifically,
for the plaintext mapping f, we want to calculate the proba-
bility that we observe the vector⃗c = (c1,...,cm,u). So, we
want the probability that f(i) appears exactly ci times for each
i ∈[m].
First, we count the number of ways to arrange m values,
f(1),..., f(m), exactly c1,...,cm times across the N = u +
∑i ci rows in the column respectively. This number is exactly
the multinomial coefficient
K⃗c =

N
c1,...,cm,u

,
that depends only on⃗c.
Alg SelAttackε(⃗c,ρ)
Let (v1,...,vn) be the elements of V in a ascending order
of likelihood (i.e. ρ(vi) ≤ρ(vj) for all i < j).
Parse (c1,...,cm,u) ←⃗c
Define rndε(x) = ε·⌈x
ε⌋
(f, p) ←helper(n,m,0)
Return f
Alg helper(i, j,σ)
assert(i ≥j)
If j = 0 then
For k ∈[i] do σ ←σ+ρ(vk)
Let f(k) = ⊥for all k ∈[m]
Return (f,ulogσ)
(f1, p1) ←helper(i−1, j −1,σ)
p1 ←p1 +cj logρ(vi)
If i > j then
(f2, p2) ←helper(i−1, j,rndε(σ+ρ(vi)))
If p1 < p2 then Return (f2, p2)
Set f1(j) = vi
Return (f1, p1)
Figure 3: Pseudocode for an attack against column equality
leakage.
Next, we consider the probability that of any fixed ordering.
Since we assume rows are independent samples, the proba-
bility that the rows in the equality groups take on the values
f assigned is ∏i ρ(f(i))ci, given our prior distribution. How-
ever, we also need that the u remaining values in the column
are not in the observed equality groups, which happens with
probability
 
∑
v∈V\Im(f)
ρ(v)
!u
Putting this together, we can write the expression
Pr[⃗c|f = f,ρ] = K⃗c
m
∏
i=1
ρ(f(i))ci ·
 
∑
v∈V\Im(f)
ρ(v)
!u
.
Complete Equality. Notice that when m = |V|, the sum-
mation drops out. Although this may seem insignificant, it
simplifies the structure of the problem. In fact, this case is
equivalent to when the complete column equality has been re-
vealed and was directly studied in prior work [6,36,37]. In par-
ticular, prior work outlined three different attacks which use
frequency analysis, norm-optimization, and bipartite match-
ing respectively. The first and last of which were proven opti-
mal in [36] and [6] respectively. We add to this line of work
by proving in the full version that the attack using norm-
optimization is optimal when using an ℓp-norm with p > 1
(Theorem 3) and not optimal when p = 1 (Theorem 4) in
Appendix A.
USENIX Association
33rd USENIX Security Symposium    7417

4.1
Incomplete Equality
Unfortunately, when a server does not observe every equality
group in a column, they cannot run the attacks from prior
work, which all rely on the existence of a one-to-one mapping
between equality groups and plaintext values. For example,
it is unclear how to use frequency analysis in such a setting.
One can match the most common plaintexts (based on the
distribution ρ) with the largest observed equality groups, but
this strategy does not yield an optimal plaintext mapping.
Our attack remedies this issue and works for any m ≤|V|.
We present the pseudocode for SelAttackε in Figure 3, which
details how we recursively compute a plaintext mapping. We
sketch some of the intuition of the algorithm and informally
why it is optimal.
This algorithm generalizes the frequency analysis attack
from prior work [37]. In fact, when m = |V|, SelAttackε al-
ways outputs the mapping f(i) = vi where vi is the ith least
frequent element according to ρ. This is the only case that
never takes the i > j branch and therefore never rounds nor
recurses more than once per call.
However when m < |V|, the algorithm sometimes takes
the i > j branch. And, each time it is taken, the algorithm is
recursing and exploring assignments where vi is not one of
the observed equality groups (and adding this to the probabil-
ity of the unobserved group). Whereas the normal branch is
exploring paths where a cj sized equality group corresponds
to the vi plaintext.
Without rounding, the end result would output an assign-
ment and the logarithm of its corresponding probability (with-
out the normalization constant),
log
 
m
∏
i=1
ρ(f(i))ci ·
 
∑
v∈V\Im(f)
ρ(v)
!u!
= ulog
 
∑
v∈V\Im(f)
ρ(v)
!
+
m
∑
i=1
ci logρ(f(i)).
Additionally, we observe that any optimal plaintext map-
ping will never assign f(i) = v1 and f(j) = v2 when ci < cj
and ρ(v1) > ρ(v2). This is formalized by Definition 2 and
Lemma 1 in Appendix A, which says any optimal mapping
is non-crossing. And this exactly characterizes the mappings
that helper recursively considers.
Combining these facts shows that SelAttackε (without
rounding) actually explores each of these potential optimal
mappings along its recursive branches and only keeps the one
with the highest probability (because log(·) is an increasing
function). So, SelAttackε returns an optimal plaintext map-
ping without rounding.
However when we introduce rounding, it allows us to bound
the runtime of SelAttackε very easily. In practice, we supple-
ment our recursive calls with memoization, a well known
technique used often in dynamic programming. With memo-
ization and rounding, helper can only receive at most m·|V|/ε
inputs, giving us a runtime of O(m·|V|/ε). Without rounding,
the input σ to helper could vary by just a little bit and still
require more recursive calls, and there are many inputs that
would run in exponential time (even with memoization). In
Appendix A of the full version, we prove that this attack is still
near optimal with some rounding (Theorem 5), so we benefit
from both a bounded runtime and theoretical guarantees.
4.2
Experimental Evaluation
To supplement our theoretical bound on the performance
of the algorithm, we simulate our attack against real-world
data to better understand the practical implications of a near-
optimal inference.
Setup. We run our experiments on public data from the city
of Chicago.2 Our experiments focus on reconstruction attacks
over the taxi, crime, rideshare, and vehicle crash tables in the
data from the years 2018 to 2022.3 We attempt to reconstruct
columns containing values for beats, community areas (CA),
and speed limits. Further details about the data used in these
and other experiments can be found in Appendix D.
We simulate a scenario where Chicago decides, in 2019, to
keep their data more private. Specifically, they begin using a
Structured Encryption for SQL scheme for their datasets and
allow authorized users to make queries. We test the ability
of an adversary observing the volumes of selections on the
Chicago server to infer the values that a users is querying.
Our attacks use the already published 2018 Chicago tables
as the auxiliary distribution ρ in our attacks. For each year
2019-2022, our adversary observes queries over some fraction
of the values in the table. They then use SelAttackε to infer
the value corresponding to each query. The equality group
sizes the adversary observes and selected by either choosing
a uniformly random subset of values from the value space
or by sampling values randomly weighted according to the
number of rows containing that value. For each year, fraction
of equality groups revealed, and sampling method, we average
over 10 independent trials.
Evaluation. To better understand the practical implications
of a near-optimal plaintext mapping, we score our results
using the value recovery rate (val-rec) and the row recovery
rate (row-rec). These represent the fraction of values or rows
inferred correctly in different ways.
More specifically, after m equality groups are revealed in
⃗c = (c1,...,cm,u), we let f : [m] →V be the true mapping
between the equality groups revealed and the underlying plain-
text values.
Then, the value recovery rate (val-rec) for a plaintext map-
ping g is
|{i ∈[m] : f(m) = g(m)}|
m
,
2https://data.cityofchicago.org/
3Note that there is less (and different) data for the 2020 and 2021 years
in some tables, due to the COVID pandemic, which may have an impact on
the accuracy of our auxiliary distributions in the attacks.
7418    33rd USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

0
20
40
60
80
100
Equality Groups Revealed (% of total)
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
Recovery (%)
Crimes Beat (n=274)
val-rec (rand)
row-rec (rand)
val-rec (weighted)
row-rec (weighted)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Equality Groups Revealed (% of total)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Recovery (%)
Taxi Pickup CA (n=78)
val-rec (rand)
row-rec (rand)
val-rec (weighted)
row-rec (weighted)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Equality Groups Revealed (% of total)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Recovery (%)
Taxi DropoﬀCA (n=78)
val-rec (rand)
row-rec (rand)
val-rec (weighted)
row-rec (weighted)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Equality Groups Revealed (% of total)
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
Recovery (%)
Crimes CA (n=77)
val-rec (rand)
row-rec (rand)
val-rec (weighted)
row-rec (weighted)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Equality Groups Revealed (% of total)
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
Recovery (%)
Rideshare Pickup CA (n=78)
val-rec (rand)
row-rec (rand)
val-rec (weighted)
row-rec (weighted)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Equality Groups Revealed (% of total)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Recovery (%)
Crashes Speed Limit (n=31)
val-rec (rand)
row-rec (rand)
val-rec (weighted)
row-rec (weighted)
Figure 4: Summary graphs showing the value and row recovery rates for SelAttackε. We compare sampling values uniformly
against sampling weighted by the frequency of the value. Each data point is averaged over the attacks on years 2019-2022 with
10 independently sampled runs for each year.
the number of values inferred correctly to the exact equality
group divided by the total number equality groups revealed.
The row recovery rate (row-rec) for a plaintext mapping g
and column (r1,...,rN) ∈V N is
|{i ∈[N] : ri ∈Im(f)∧f −1(ri) = g−1(ri)}|
N −u
,
the number of rows correctly inferred divided by the total
number of rows observed.4 This is similar to the value recov-
ery rate but weighted toward values which appear frequently.
Results. In Figure 4, we present graphs charting how
SelAttackε performs as more equality groups are revealed.
For each column we attack, the corresponding graph shows
how our attack perform on average (for uniform and weighted
sampling) as more equality groups are revealed. This cor-
responds to an adversary observing more and more queries
from a client. One may expect that attacks would perform
much worse when only a small subset of values are queried,
but we find that our recovery rates are not heavily influenced
by the fraction of values revealed.
Each attack we ran finished in under 40 seconds on an
Intel i9 Macbook Pro, without significant optimization. Most
would finish in just a few seconds, with the main exception
being our Crimes Beat experiments when about 50% of the
values were observed, which took 30-40 seconds. This was
unsurprising, since this setting of many domain values with
half being observed significantly increases the number of
branches the algorithm must consider.
4For values v ̸∈Im(g), we let g−1(v) = ⊥
Our attack’s performance depends on the distribution of
the underlying data. Since our attack uses the expected fre-
quencies of certain values, distributions which are very flat
and spread across many values (e.g. beats from the crimes
table) perform worse, only achieving val-rec of less than 5%.
Where as more skewed data on smaller domains typically
perform much better, achieving val-rec around 10-40%. Also
our attack is very good at recovering the most frequent val-
ues, evidenced by our attacks against speed limits, and taxi
data, which often get row-rec over 50%, even when values
are selected uniformly at random.
Overall, this level of query recovery could be concerning
for specific deployments of modern StE for SQL schemes.
When a client performs selects on sensitive data, we show
that a passive adversary may be able to infer key parts of the
client’s queries. If a client wants to hide what they do with
their data, these attacks indicate that the leakage from these
schemes is insufficient, when an adversary might have some
prior knowledge over the data distribution.
5
Join Plaintext Recovery
Section 3.2 illustrates how state of the art structured encryp-
tion for SQL schemes leak the equality group sizes across
the columns during a join. Notice that this leakage is more
than just the equality group sizes in both columns. The adver-
sary additionally learns which groups have the same plaintext
across the columns.
Attack Model. The formalism for this attack extends the
ideas put forward in prior work [6], by using a Bayesian
USENIX Association
33rd USENIX Security Symposium    7419

inference framework. The leakage input to our algorithms
attacking cross-column equality are two vectors ⃗c1 =
(c1,...,cm,u1) and ⃗c2 = (d1,...,dm,u2) which contain the
sizes of each of the m observed equality groups across the
two columns. Unlike the vector in Section 4, we cannot as-
sume both of these are in ascending order without loss of
generality. Instead, we assume that the equality groups corre-
sponding to ci and di have the same underlying plaintext value
and that the observed group sizes of⃗c1 are in ascending order.
The number of rows without an observed equality group is u1
and u2 in the columns respectively, which can be computed
from the leakage discussed in Section 3.2.
As an example from Figure 1, if we were to observe the
leakage from the join corresponding to JOIN(C1,C2) then we
would run our attacks with the observed vectors
⃗c1 = (1,3,3,0)
and
⃗c2 = (3,1,2,1),
which correspond to the values Bob,Cal, and Ari (followed
by the number of unobserved rows), since we keep ⃗c1 in
ascending order.
In addition to the observed leakage vectors, our algorithms
take some auxiliary information as an input. Specifically they
take two distributions ρ1 and ρ2 over the set of plaintext values
V. These distributions describe the plaintext distribution that
both columns have their values independently drawn from.
In this setting, our algorithms have the goal to find the most
likely mapping between the equality groups and the set of
plaintext values V.
First Optimality Attempt. Unlike in Section 4, the op-
timality of our attacks against cross-column equality is not
as straightforward. We put forward two possible theoretical
objectives of attacks and argue to adopt the latter definition.
First, we parallel Section 4 closely and consider attacks
which only output an injective function f : [m] →V, called a
plaintext mapping, which represents the guessed value that
underlies each equality group. This is not the most an adver-
sary could infer, since they additionally know that the rows
in the two columns, which were not in the observed equality
groups must be unequal from each other. However, this type
of attack may capture most of what an adversary would care
about and parallels its objective nicely with the attacks from
prior work.
An attack of this sort optimal if it returns a plaintext map-
ping that maximizes the likelihood of observing the given
equality groups, assuming that the columns’ values are drawn
from the distributions ρ1 and ρ2 respectively. More formally,
an algorithm is optimal if it returns
argmax
f
Pr[⃗c1,⃗c2|f = f,ρ1,ρ2],
where f is the true plaintext mapping, modeled as a uniformly
random injective function.
Using an analogous probability analysis, as the one made
in Section 4, we can somewhat expand the expression for
the probability of the observed equality groups for a plain-
text mapping f. For vectors ⃗c1 = (c1,...,cm,u1) and ⃗c2 =
(d1,...,dm,u2), we can expand the expression to
Pr[⃗c1,⃗c2|f = f,ρ1,ρ2] =
K⃗c1,⃗c2T u1
1 T u2
2 P
m
∏
i=1
ρ1(f(i))ci ·ρ2(f(i))di,
where K⃗c1,⃗c2 is a normalization constant that depends only on
the terms in the vectors and the terms
Ti =
∑
v∈V\Im(f)
ρi(v),
the total probability of a sample lying outside of the image
of f for the distribution ρi. Unfortunately, P does not have a
clean expression in terms of our input variables, so we leave
it in terms of Ui which is the set values from ui independent
samples of ρi conditioned on all ui samples lying outside of
the image of f. With that notation, we can write
P = Pr[U1 ∩U2 = /0|f = f,ρ1,ρ2],
the probability that the two unobserved rows in the two
columns are never equal (since otherwise they would’ve com-
prised another equality group).
Optimality. We also consider attacks which output f and
sets U1 and U2 with U1 ∩U2 = /0 and U1 ∪U2 ⊆V \ Im(f),
which represent the guess at the most likely values among
rows in the unobserved equality groups in the columns. This
definition captures that maximum amount of information an
attack could infer about the underlying data from⃗c1 and⃗c2,
by determining the most likely values present in each column
respectively. Similar to the other definitions, an attack would
be optimal if it returns
argmax
f,U1,U2
Pr[⃗c1,⃗c2|f = f,U1 = U1,U2 = U2,ρ1,ρ2].
For attacks which output these sets, we consider the prob-
ability of the triple (f,U1,U2) in a more explicit expression.
For vectors⃗c1 = (c1,...,cm,u1) and⃗c2 = (d1,...,dm,u2), we
can write
Pr[⃗c1,⃗c2|f = f,U1 = U1,U2 = U2,ρ1,ρ2] =
K⃗c1,⃗c2P(U1,U2)
m
∏
i=1
ρ1(f(i))ci ·ρ2(f(i))di,
where K⃗c1,⃗c2 is a normalization constant that depends only on
the terms in the vectors, and
P(U1,U2) =
 
∑
v∈U1
ρ1(v)
!u1
·
 
∑
v∈U2
ρ2(v)
!u2
7420    33rd USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

Alg BM(⃗c1,⃗c2,ρ1,ρ2)
Parse (c1,...,cn,0) ←⃗c1 and (d1,...,dn,0) ←⃗c1
Let G = (Gℓ∪Gr,E) be a weighted complete bipartite graph,
where Gℓ= {ℓ1,...,ℓn}, Gr = {rv1,...,rvn} and the weight
of each edge is
w({ℓi,rv j}) = ci ·log(ρ1(vj))+di ·log(ρ2(vj))
Use the Hungarian Algorithm to obtain M, the maximum
weight matching for G
Return f where f(i) = vj if {ℓi,rv j} ∈M.
Figure 5: Bipartite matching algorithm BM for attacking com-
plete cross-column equality.
is the probability that all the unobserved rows from the
columns fall into U1 and U2 respectively.
When m = |V|, corresponding to attacking complete cross-
column equality, the definitions are equivalent. Since there
are no plaintext values outside of the image of f, there is no
inference to make about the values outside of the join result.
This means attacks only need to output a plaintext mapping
f, and in this setting, we give an attack and prove that it is
optimal.
When m < |V|, the two optimality objectives differ. We find
that the latter definition is more useful from both theoretical
and practical perspectives. For example, our attacks make
use of efficient likelihood estimatation, and in Appendix C,
we show that is in fact NP-hard to make an inference which
outputs the most likely sets U1,U2 of unassigned plaintext
values (Theorem 6). Additionally, this definition corresponds
to the most an adversary can infer, which is the overarching
goal of leakage-abuse attacks. Given these virtues, we stick
with this as the standard definition for optimality.
5.1
Complete Cross-Column Equality
Our main attack for attacking complete cross-column equality
uses bipartite matching, similar to one of the attacks for com-
plete equality in prior work [6]. The BM algorithm begins
by creating a bipartite graph based on the observed equality
groups and auxiliary distributional information. A perfect
matching in this graph corresponds directly to an assignment
of equality groups to plaintext values.
By weighting the edges appropriately, the weight of any
matching is just the logarithm of the probability an attack
needs to maximize (up to a constant). So, BM just constructs
such a graph and uses a subroutine to find a maximum weight
bipartite matching, which can be converted into a plaintext
mapping maximizing the target probability. We give the pseu-
docode for BM in Figure 5. Additionally, we prove the The-
orem 1 that this attack is optimal, as an almost immediate
corollary of the Hungarian Algorithm’s correctness.
Theorem 1. For every n element set V, ⃗c1,⃗c2 ∈Zn × {0}
and ρ1,ρ2 ∈Dist(V), BM(⃗c1,⃗c2,ρ1,ρ2) (Figure 5) outputs
Alg Greedyε(⃗c1,⃗c2,ρ1,ρ2)
S←$ V
m

; δ ←1
(f,U1,U2, p) ←MapFromSetε(S,⃗c1,⃗c2,ρ1,ρ2)
While δ > 0 do
δ ←0 ; S′ ←S
For each (u,v) ∈S′ ×V \S′ do
Su,v ←{v}∪S\{u}
(f,U1,U2, pu,v) ←MapFromSetε(Su,v,⃗c1,⃗c2,ρ1,ρ2)
If pu,v −p > δ then S ←Su,v ; δ ←pu,v −p
(f,U1,U2, p) ←MapFromSetε(S,⃗c1,⃗c2,ρ1,ρ2)
Return (f,U1,U2)
Alg MapFromSetε(S,⃗c1,⃗c2,ρ1,ρ2)
Parse (c1,...,cm,u1) ←⃗c1 and (d1,...,dm,u2) ←⃗c2
assert(|S| = m)
Let ρ′
j(v) = ρ j(v)/∑v∈S ρj(v) for j = 1,2 and v ∈S
f ←BM((c1,...,cm,0),(d1,...,dm,0),ρ′
1,ρ′
2)
(U1,U2) ←POAAε(V \S,ρ1,ρ2,u1,u2)
p ←Pr[⃗c1,⃗c2|f = f,U1 = U1,U2 = U2,ρ1,ρ2]
Return (f,U1,U2, p)
Figure 6: The algorithm Greedyε shows one way to optimize
over the MapFromSetε function to find a likely plaintext map-
ping for incomplete cross-column equality.
a plaintext mapping g such that Pr[⃗c1,⃗c2|f = g,ρ1,ρ2] =
maxf Pr[⃗c1,⃗c2|f = f,ρ1,ρ2].
Proof. Let ⃗c1 = (c1,...,cn,0) and ⃗c2 = (d1,...,dn,0). Let
f be a function returned by BM(⃗c1,⃗c2,ρ1,ρ2). Then, f is a
function which maximizes
∑
i∈[n]
ci logρ1(f(i))+di logρ2(f(i)),
because the Hungarian Algorithm [35] always returns a
maximizing function. But, observing this expression is
log(Pr[⃗c1,⃗c2|f = f,ρ1,ρ2]) up to a constant factor (depend-
ing only on ⃗c1,⃗c2) and that log(·) is an increasing func-
tion leads us to conclude that such an f also maximizes
Pr[⃗c1,⃗c2|f = f,ρ1,ρ2].
5.2
Incomplete Cross-Column Equality
The two potential targets for incomplete cross-column equal-
ity both have issues when trying to find an effective and
optimal leakage abuse attack. For attacks only returning a
plaintext mapping, there isn’t a very precise general formula
for the likelihood of the observed data. And for attacks which
maximize the amount they can infer, we show, in Theorem 6
that finding an optimal function is NP-hard in the worst case.
Despite these challenges, we give attacks which output a
plaintext mapping f as well as sets U1 and U2 to infer the
values in the unobserved rows. We do this because they are
more general, can just be modified to only output the plaintext
USENIX Association
33rd USENIX Security Symposium    7421

mapping, and having a concrete formula allows us to adapt
techniques used in our other leakage-abuse attack settings.
Partitioning Approximation. Throughout our attacks, we
use our own Partitioning Optimization Approximation Algo-
rithm (POAA) as a subroutine. The pseudocode for POAAε
is in Figure 11 (Appendix B). After a plaintext mapping is
chosen, POAAε approximately finds the best way to divide
the remaining plaintext values between the two columns. It
will then return sets U1,U2 which approximately maximize
the value P(U1,U2).
The algorithm is parameterized by a value ε ∈(0,1), which
determines the precision of the approximation. As input, it
takes the set of remaining plaintext values R, the distributions
ρi, and the number of rows which were not in an equality
group ui for both columns (i = 1,2). It returns two sets, which
are the respective guesses for the most likely split of the
remaining plaintext values across the columns.
Greedy Algorithm. The first approach for solving incom-
plete cross-column equality is to give a function that can be
optimized using generic techniques. In Figure 6, we present
MapFromSetε which takes a guess at which m plaintexts are
present in the join output and returns a guess at the plaintext
mapping, the split between the unassigned values, and the
probability estimate for the returned tuple.
It works by first running the BM algorithm on the equality
groups, and restricted to the set S to find a candidate plaintext
mapping f. From there, it uses the POAAε algorithm on the
remaining plaintext values to figure out an approximately
good splitU1,U2. Finally, the algorithm returns the (f,U1,U2)
along with the approximate output probability of the triple.
We use MapFromSetε as a subroutine for Greedyε in Fig-
ure 6. The algorithm Greedyε, chooses an initial guess for the
set and incrementally chooses a value in the set and a value
out of the set to swap. On each iteration, it makes the swap
which increases the likelihood of the set the most. Once it
can find no more improving swaps, the function returns the
mapping for the best set that it iterated to. In our experiments,
we run Greedyε with random starting points 5 times and take
the most likely mapping returned, and we cap the number of
iterations of the outer loop to 1/ε = 1000.
Genetic Algorithm. We also use MapFromSetε as a sub-
routine for Geneticε,k,g,t,γ in Figure 7. Our algorithm is in-
spired by genetic algorithms from machine learning. At a
high level, the goal is to treat the probability as a “fitness
function,” and like genetic selection, we keep “fit” sets and
also randomly mutate sets across generations. Over many
generations, the goal is to achieve a more fit population and to
pick out the best plaintext mapping from the last generation.
In addition to the typical ε, Geneticε,k,g,t,γ is parameter-
ized by k,g,t, and γ, which correspond to the population size,
generation number, tournament size, and mutation rate respec-
tively. Once these are specified, the algorithm generates k
sets of candidate plaintext set guesses and then proceeds to
run for g generations, each time testing the likelihood of all
Alg Geneticε,k,g,t,γ(⃗c1,⃗c2,ρ1,ρ2)
(S1,...,Sk)←$ V
m
p
For i = 1,...,g do
For j = 1,...,k do
(f,U1,U2, p j) ←MapFromSetε(S j,⃗c1,⃗c2,ρ1,ρ2)
(p1,S1),...,(pk,Sk) ←DESC((p1,S1),...,(pk,Sk))
For j = 1,...,k do
If j ≤k
10 then S′
j ←Sj
If k
10 < j ≤9k
10 then
ℓ←$TournamentSelection(t,k)
S′
j ←$Mutate(γ,Sℓ)
If 9k
10 < j then
ℓ←${1,...,k} ; S′
j ←Sℓ
(S1,...,Sk) ←(S′
1,...,S′
k)
(f,U1,U2, p) ←MapFromSetε(S1,⃗c1,⃗c2,ρ1,ρ2)
Return (f,U1,U2)
Alg TournamentSelection(t,k)
T ←$[k]t ; Return min(T)
Alg Mutate(γ,S)
c←$[γ] ; U ←$ S
c

; U′ ←$ (V\S)∪U)
c

; Return (S\U)∪U′
Figure 7: The Geneticε,k,g,t,γ attack uses MapFromSetε (Fig-
ure 6) as subroutine. Note that min will return the smallest
element of the tuple T and DESC returns the tuples in sorted
descending order by the first entry (the likelihood).
candidates, keeping the top 10%, a tournament selected 80%
(which get mutated), and finally randomly selecting 10%, to
keep the population size at k. After g generations, the function
turns the most likely set into a solution for the incomplete
cross-column problem using MapFromSetε and returns the
result.
Split Algorithm. Unlike our incremental optimization, we
give a single shot attack in Figure 8 as well as a slightly gener-
alized version, which just takes the best output of a few runs.
Our main leakage-abuse attack however, is Splitε,φ1,φ2, which
is parameterized by a parameter ε used for the POAAε algo-
rithm and distributions φ1,φ2 over the integers [m + 1,n] =
{m,m+1,...,n} (or any superset of this set).
The high level idea is to use the distributions φ1,φ2 as
“guesses” of the underlying distribution of the data in the
two columns. The algorithm will approximately partition
(split) this guessed distribution first, then construct two new
observation vectors with terms c′
i and d′
i respectively based
on the partitioning returned. These new vectors create an
instance of a complete cross-column equality pattern, and so
we can run our optimal attack BM with them. Once, we get
back a function g, we find the values corresponding to the
equality groups f and the plaintext values which correspond
to the sets previously split sets.
Because this attack runs in one shot, it is also easy to enu-
merate over many distribution pair guesses and find one which
7422    33rd USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

Alg Splitε,φ1,φ2(⃗c1,⃗c2,ρ1,ρ2)
Parse (c1,...,cm,u1) ←⃗c1 and (d1,...,dm,u2) ←⃗c2
(S1,S2) ←POAAε([m+1,n],φ1,φ2,u1,u2)
Let c′
i =





ci
for 1 ≤i ≤m
(u1 +u2)·φ1(i)
if i ∈S1
0
if i ̸∈S1
Let d′
i =





di
for 1 ≤i ≤m
(u1 +u2)·φ2(i)
if i ∈S2
0
if i ̸∈S2
g ←BM((c′
1,...,c′n,0),(d′
1,...,d′n,0),ρ1,ρ2)
Let f(i) = g(i) for 1 ≤i ≤m
Let Uj = {f(i) : i ∈Sj} for j = 1,2
Return (f,U1,U2)
Alg Splitε,Φ(⃗c1,⃗c2,ρ1,ρ2)
For each (φ1,φ2) ∈Φ do
(f,U1,U2) ←Splitε,φ1,φ2(⃗c1,⃗c2,ρ1,ρ2)
pφ1,φ2 ←Pr[⃗c1,⃗c2|f = f,U1 = U1,U2 = U2,ρ1,ρ2]
(φ′
1,φ′
2) ←argmax(φ1,φ2)∈Φ pφ1,φ2
Return Splitε,φ′
1,φ′
2(⃗c1,⃗c2,ρ1,ρ2)
Figure 8: The Splitε,φ1,φ2 attack against incomplete cross col-
umn equality parameterized by distributions φ1,φ2. The sec-
ond Splitε,Φ attack is parameterized by a set of distribution
pairs Φ and returns the best solution from among those pairs.
returns a solution that gives a higher likelihood than the others.
This is what we present as Splitε,Φ which is parameterized by
a set of distribution pairs. This is more likely to give a better
solution, because it can take many guesses at the underlying
distributions of plaintext values. The common distributions
pairs to try are the uniform distributions and zipfian distribu-
tions. We can also change the domain of ρ1 and ρ2 from V to
[n], where the most likely element to appear is 1, then 2 and
so on, and use such a distribution for the Splitε,φ1,φ2 function.
5.3
Experimental Evaluation
Setup. We test the practical performance of our leakage-abuse
attacks against join leakage from real-world data. We use
public data from the city of Chicago5 which has multiple
datasets with columns of common types. We use the taxi,
crime, rideshare, and vehicle crash tables from the years 2018-
2022 to provide join leakage.6 Further details about the data
used in these and other experiments can be found in Ap-
pendix D.
As in Section 4, we simulate a scenario where Chicago
decides, in 2019, to keep their data more private. Specifically,
they begin using a Structured Encryption for SQL scheme for
the tables in question and allow authorized users to query the
5https://data.cityofchicago.org/
6Note that there is less (and different) data for the 2020 and 2021 years
in some tables, due to the COVID pandemic, which may have an impact on
the accuracy of our auxiliary distributions in the attacks.
datasets. We test the ability of an adversary observing the join
access pattern on the Chicago server to infer the values in the
tables joined on, using the 2018 data as a prior distribution.
Between the taxi and crimes tables, we simulate a join be-
tween the pickup community area (CA) and the community
area in which a crime occurred as well as the drop-off com-
munity area and the community area of a crime. Between
the crime and crashes tables, we simulate a join between the
beat in which a crime occurred and the beat in which a crash
occurred.
For each of these potential joins and every year 2019-2022,
we use the 2018 year table as an auxiliary distribution to
estimate the column’s plaintext distribution for the year we
are attacking. We then calculate the cross-column leakage
for the year and the columns we are joining. Finally, we take
the auxiliary distributions and leakage and run our attacks
Greedyε, Geneticε,k,g,t,γ, and Splitε,Φ. We compare against a
“no-cross” attack which runs SelAttackε on each column’s
equality group leakage, runs POAAε to partition the remain-
ing plaintext values, and returns the more likely of the two
plaintext mappings. We include this to compare between
cross-column and column equality more directly, to see how
much more devastating an adversary is with the additional
leakage between columns.
Evaluation. We evaluate our results using the value and
row recovery rates just as in Section 4. For cross-column
leakage-abuse attacks, the scoring formulas for the value and
row recovery rates in an experiment with m observed values
are
|{i ∈[m] : f(m) = g(m)}|
m
,
and
|{i ∈[N1 +N2] : ri ∈Im(f)∧f −1(ri) = g−1(ri)}|
N1 +N2 −(u1 +u2)
,
respectively, where g is the output plaintext mapping, f is the
true plaintext mapping, and the join takes place on columns
(r1,...,rN1) and (rN1+1,...,rN1+N2). These two formulae cap-
ture the fraction of values correctly identified and fraction of
rows correctly identified respectively.
Results. We summarize some of our cross-column attacks
in Figure 9. For all of our attacks we take ε = 0.001. For our
Geneticε,k,g,t,γ algorithm, we set k = 30,g = 15,t = 5, and
γ = 0.2m, and for Splitε,Φ we try all pairs of the uniform
distribution, zipfian distribution, and tail of the auxiliary dis-
tribution for each column (for a total of 9 calls to Splitε,φ1,φ2).
The “no-cross” algorithm is an attack which does not use the
the cross-column equality pattern and instead just uses the col-
umn equality for each column. Specifically, it runs SelAttackε
on each column and uses POAAε to partition any remaining
values between the columns. It then returns the more likely
triple between the results from the first and second columns.
For every experiment, except Crime vs Crash Beat, each
attack we ran finished in under 30 seconds and usually in
USENIX Association
33rd USENIX Security Symposium    7423

no-cross
greedy
genetic
split
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
Recovery (%)
Crime vs Crash Beat (n=392,m=158)
val-rec
row-rec
no-cross
greedy
genetic
split
0
20
40
60
80
100
Recovery (%)
Taxi Pickup vs Crime CA (n=78,m=77)
val-rec
row-rec
no-cross
greedy
genetic
split
0
20
40
60
80
100
Recovery (%)
Taxi Dropoﬀvs Crime CA (n=78,m=77)
val-rec
row-rec
no-cross
greedy
genetic
split
0
20
40
60
80
100
Recovery (%)
Rideshare Pickup vs Crime CA (n=78,m=77)
val-rec
row-rec
no-cross
greedy
genetic
split
0
20
40
60
80
100
Recovery (%)
Taxi vs Rideshare Pickup CA (n=m=78)
val-rec
row-rec
no-cross
greedy
genetic
split
0
20
40
60
80
100
Recovery (%)
Taxi vs Rideshare DropoﬀCA (n=m=78)
val-rec
row-rec
Figure 9: Summary graphs showing performance of our attacks, using cross-column leakage. We indicate the performance of
each year using “+” and “x” marks, which represent 2019-2022 from left to right within each bar. Notice that when n = m, our
attacks reduce to running BM and have the same output.
less than a second on an Intel i9 Macbook Pro, without sig-
nificant optimization. For Crime vs Crash Beat, our no-cross
and Geneticε,k,g,t,γ algorithms took 3-4 minutes, and Greedyε
took about an hour. Fortunately, our (overall) best algorithm
Splitε,Φ is also our most efficient! It only took about 5 seconds
to run on Crime vs Crash Beat instances and was less than
half a second on all of the other experiments.
Based on our experiments, the cross-column equality pat-
tern allows an adversary to recover substantially more than
attacks using only the equality leakage from each column.
This is most highlighted by a simulated join between the
“beats” column from the crimes table and the one from the
crash table. The Splitε,Φ algorithm vastly out-performs all
other others, recovering over 15% of values and rows on av-
erage, versus the others which are all under 5%. This pattern
is displayed across our other joins as well, although often to
a lesser extent. And, the baseline is generally good at recov-
ering the values which occur in many rows, but additional
cross-column information still improves that recovery.
In a deployment of a modern StE for SQL scheme, this
cross-column leakage is revealed entirely when a join is per-
formed on the server, which only takes one query. So, when
a database is stored with StE for SQL, it is important to un-
derstand what a passive adversary could infer, given some
prior distributional information. We conclude that if a client
wants to keep adversaries from inferring underlying plaintext
values, then StE for SQL schemes may give insufficient pro-
tection, especially in settings where databases store sensitive
information.
6
Conclusion
Based on our theoretical and empirical results, we find that
modern Structured Encryption for SQL schemes [13,32,49]
are often not significantly more secure than older schemes
supporting SQL with property-preserving encryption. In some
contexts, this level of security carries acceptable risk and can
still be used. However, one should take caution using these
schemes for databases which contain sensitive information.
In our introduction, we also discuss some of the limitations
of these findings and possible mitigations. Specifically, using
certain primitives [33, 40] or “heavy weight” cryptography
[5, 8, 21, 24] can be used to help with mitigation. However,
all the solutions proposed come at some cost to the server or
client computation and/or the bandwidth.
Acknowledgments
Support for this work’s researchers was provided primarily by
DSO National Laboratories. We thank the high-school interns
whose exploratory work helped inspired this project: Ming
Kee Kang, Ananya Kharbanda, Allison Law, Jemma Lee,
Megan Lee, Chelsea Ling Xinyi, Cadence Loh, and Naomi
Wang. We thank Eileen Ee and Ryan Seah for their help sup-
porting the interns, and thank David Cash for writing advice.
Availability
Our code can be found at https://github.com/ste4sql/
LAA4STE4SQL. Appendix D contains details about data used.
7424    33rd USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

References
[1] Archita Agarwal, Maurice Herlihy, Seny Kamara, and
Tarik Moataz. Encrypted databases for differential pri-
vacy. PoPETs, 2019(3):170–190, July 2019.
[2] Rakesh Agrawal, Jerry Kiernan, Ramakrishnan Srikant,
and Yirong Xu. Order preserving encryption for nu-
meric data. In Proceedings of the 2004 ACM SIGMOD
international conference on Management of data, pages
563–574, 2004.
[3] Panagiotis Antonopoulos, Arvind Arasu, Kunal D Singh,
Ken Eguro, Nitish Gupta, Rajat Jain, Raghav Kaushik,
Hanuma Kodavalla, Donald Kossmann, Nikolas Ogg,
et al. Azure sql database always encrypted. In Proceed-
ings of the 2020 ACM SIGMOD International Confer-
ence on Management of Data, pages 1511–1525, 2020.
[4] Alexandre Anzala-Yamajako, Olivier Bernard, Matthieu
Giraud, and Pascal Lafourcade.
No such thing as a
small leak: Leakage-abuse attacks against symmetric
searchable encryption. In International Conference on
E-Business and Telecommunications, pages 253–277.
Springer, 2019.
[5] Assaf Ben-David, Noam Nisan, and Benny Pinkas. Fair-
playMP: a system for secure multi-party computation.
In Peng Ning, Paul F. Syverson, and Somesh Jha, editors,
ACM CCS 2008, pages 257–266. ACM Press, October
2008.
[6] Vincent Bindschaedler, Paul Grubbs, David Cash,
Thomas Ristenpart, and Vitaly Shmatikov.
The tao
of inference in privacy-protected databases. Cryptol-
ogy ePrint Archive, Report 2017/1078, 2017. https:
//eprint.iacr.org/2017/1078.
[7] Laura Blackstone, Seny Kamara, and Tarik Moataz. Re-
visiting leakage abuse attacks.
In NDSS 2020. The
Internet Society, February 2020.
[8] Dan Boneh, Giovanni Di Crescenzo, Rafail Ostrovsky,
and Giuseppe Persiano. Public key encryption with key-
word search. In Christian Cachin and Jan Camenisch, ed-
itors, EUROCRYPT 2004, volume 3027 of LNCS, pages
506–522. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2004.
[9] Raphael Bost. Σoφoς: Forward secure searchable en-
cryption. In Edgar R. Weippl, Stefan Katzenbeisser,
Christopher Kruegel, Andrew C. Myers, and Shai Halevi,
editors, ACM CCS 2016, pages 1143–1154. ACM Press,
October 2016.
[10] Raphael Bost and Pierre-Alain Fouque. Thwarting leak-
age abuse attacks against searchable encryption – A
formal approach and applications to database padding.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2017/1060, 2017.
https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/1060.
[11] David Cash, Paul Grubbs, Jason Perry, and Thomas Ris-
tenpart. Leakage-abuse attacks against searchable en-
cryption. In Indrajit Ray, Ninghui Li, and Christopher
Kruegel, editors, ACM CCS 2015, pages 668–679. ACM
Press, October 2015.
[12] David Cash, Joseph Jaeger, Stanislaw Jarecki, Charan-
jit S. Jutla, Hugo Krawczyk, Marcel-Catalin Rosu, and
Michael Steiner.
Dynamic searchable encryption in
very-large databases: Data structures and implementa-
tion. In NDSS 2014. The Internet Society, February
2014.
[13] David Cash, Ruth Ng, and Adam Rivkin. Improved
structured encryption for SQL databases via hybrid in-
dexing. In Kazue Sako and Nils Ole Tippenhauer, edi-
tors, ACNS 21, Part II, volume 12727 of LNCS, pages
480–510. Springer, Heidelberg, June 2021.
[14] Javad Ghareh Chamani, Dimitrios Papadopoulos, Char-
alampos Papamanthou, and Rasool Jalili.
New con-
structions for forward and backward private symmet-
ric searchable encryption. In David Lie, Mohammad
Mannan, Michael Backes, and XiaoFeng Wang, editors,
ACM CCS 2018, pages 1038–1055. ACM Press, October
2018.
[15] Yan-Cheng Chang and Michael Mitzenmacher. Privacy
preserving keyword searches on remote encrypted data.
In John Ioannidis, Angelos Keromytis, and Moti Yung,
editors, ACNS 05, volume 3531 of LNCS, pages 442–
455. Springer, Heidelberg, June 2005.
[16] Zhao Chang, Dong Xie, Sheng Wang, and Feifei Li.
Towards practical oblivious join. In Proceedings of the
2022 International Conference on Management of Data,
pages 803–817, 2022.
[17] Melissa Chase and Seny Kamara. Structured encryption
and controlled disclosure.
In Masayuki Abe, editor,
ASIACRYPT 2010, volume 6477 of LNCS, pages 577–
594. Springer, Heidelberg, December 2010.
[18] Reza Curtmola, Juan A. Garay, Seny Kamara, and Rafail
Ostrovsky. Searchable symmetric encryption: improved
definitions and efficient constructions. In Ari Juels, Re-
becca N. Wright, and Sabrina De Capitani di Vimercati,
editors, ACM CCS 2006, pages 79–88. ACM Press, Oc-
tober / November 2006.
[19] Ioannis Demertzis, Dimitrios Papadopoulos, Charalam-
pos Papamanthou, and Saurabh Shintre. SEAL: Attack
mitigation for encrypted databases via adjustable leak-
age. In Srdjan Capkun and Franziska Roesner, editors,
USENIX Association
33rd USENIX Security Symposium    7425

USENIX Security 2020, pages 2433–2450. USENIX As-
sociation, August 2020.
[20] Francesca Falzon, Evangelia Anna Markatou, Akshima,
David Cash, Adam Rivkin, Jesse Stern, and Roberto
Tamassia. Full database reconstruction in two dimen-
sions. In Jay Ligatti, Xinming Ou, Jonathan Katz, and
Giovanni Vigna, editors, ACM CCS 2020, pages 443–
460. ACM Press, November 2020.
[21] Craig Gentry. Fully homomorphic encryption using
ideal lattices. In Michael Mitzenmacher, editor, 41st
ACM STOC, pages 169–178. ACM Press, May / June
2009.
[22] Matthieu Giraud, Alexandre Anzala-Yamajako, Olivier
Bernard, and Pascal Lafourcade.
Practical passive
leakage-abuse attacks against symmetric searchable en-
cryption. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2017/046,
2017. https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/046.
[23] Eu-Jin Goh. Secure indexes. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Report 2003/216, 2003. https://eprint.iacr.org/
2003/216.
[24] Oded Goldreich. Towards a theory of software protec-
tion and simulation by oblivious RAMs. In Alfred Aho,
editor, 19th ACM STOC, pages 182–194. ACM Press,
May 1987.
[25] Paul Grubbs, Marie-Sarah Lacharité, Brice Minaud, and
Kenneth G. Paterson. Pump up the volume: Practical
database reconstruction from volume leakage on range
queries. In David Lie, Mohammad Mannan, Michael
Backes, and XiaoFeng Wang, editors, ACM CCS 2018,
pages 315–331. ACM Press, October 2018.
[26] Paul Grubbs, Kevin Sekniqi, Vincent Bindschaedler,
Muhammad Naveed, and Thomas Ristenpart. Leakage-
abuse attacks against order-revealing encryption. In
2017 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, pages
655–672. IEEE Computer Society Press, May 2017.
[27] Zichen Gui, Kenneth G Paterson, and Tianxin Tang. Se-
curity analysis of mongodb queryable encryption. In
32nd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security
23), pages 7445–7462, 2023.
[28] Florian Hahn, Nicolas Loza, and Florian Kerschbaum.
Joins over encrypted data with fine granular security.
In 2019 IEEE 35th International Conference on Data
Engineering (ICDE), pages 674–685. IEEE, 2019.
[29] Mohammad Saiful Islam, Mehmet Kuzu, and Murat
Kantarcioglu.
Access pattern disclosure on search-
able encryption: Ramification, attack and mitigation. In
NDSS 2012. The Internet Society, February 2012.
[30] Charanjit Jutla and Sikhar Patranabis. Efficient search-
able symmetric encryption for join queries. In Advances
in Cryptology–ASIACRYPT 2022: 28th International
Conference on the Theory and Application of Cryptol-
ogy and Information Security, Taipei, Taiwan, Decem-
ber 5–9, 2022, Proceedings, Part III, pages 304–333.
Springer, 2023.
[31] Seny Kamara, Abdelkarim Kati, Tarik Moataz, Thomas
Schneider, Amos Treiber, and Michael Yonli.
Sok:
Cryptanalysis of encrypted search with leaker–a frame-
work for leakage attack evaluation on real-world data.
In 2022 IEEE 7th European Symposium on Security and
Privacy (EuroS&P), pages 90–108. IEEE, 2022.
[32] Seny Kamara and Tarik Moataz. SQL on structurally-
encrypted databases.
In Thomas Peyrin and Steven
Galbraith, editors, ASIACRYPT 2018, Part I, volume
11272 of LNCS, pages 149–180. Springer, Heidelberg,
December 2018.
[33] Seny Kamara and Tarik Moataz.
Computationally
volume-hiding structured encryption. In Yuval Ishai and
Vincent Rijmen, editors, EUROCRYPT 2019, Part II,
volume 11477 of LNCS, pages 183–213. Springer, Hei-
delberg, May 2019.
[34] Georgios Kellaris, George Kollios, Kobbi Nissim, and
Adam O’Neill. Generic attacks on secure outsourced
databases. In Edgar R. Weippl, Stefan Katzenbeisser,
Christopher Kruegel, Andrew C. Myers, and Shai Halevi,
editors, ACM CCS 2016, pages 1329–1340. ACM Press,
October 2016.
[35] Harold W Kuhn.
The hungarian method for the as-
signment problem. Naval research logistics quarterly,
2(1-2):83–97, 1955.
[36] Marie-Sarah Lacharité and Kenneth G. Paterson. A
note on the optimality of frequency analysis vs. ℓp-
optimization.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report
2015/1158, 2015. https://eprint.iacr.org/2015/
1158.
[37] Muhammad Naveed, Seny Kamara, and Charles V.
Wright. Inference attacks on property-preserving en-
crypted databases.
In Indrajit Ray, Ninghui Li, and
Christopher Kruegel, editors, ACM CCS 2015, pages
644–655. ACM Press, October 2015.
[38] Jianting Ning, Xinyi Huang, Geong Sen Poh, Jiaming
Yuan, Yingjiu Li, Jian Weng, and Robert H. Deng.
LEAP: Leakage-abuse attack on efficiently deployable,
efficiently searchable encryption with partially known
dataset. In Giovanni Vigna and Elaine Shi, editors, ACM
CCS 2021, pages 2307–2320. ACM Press, November
2021.
7426    33rd USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

[39] Simon Oya and Florian Kerschbaum. IHOP: Improved
statistical query recovery against searchable symmetric
encryption through quadratic optimization. In Kevin
R. B. Butler and Kurt Thomas, editors, USENIX Security
2022, pages 2407–2424. USENIX Association, August
2022.
[40] Sarvar Patel, Giuseppe Persiano, Kevin Yeo, and Moti
Yung. Mitigating leakage in secure cloud-hosted data
structures: Volume-hiding for multi-maps via hash-
ing. In Lorenzo Cavallaro, Johannes Kinder, XiaoFeng
Wang, and Jonathan Katz, editors, ACM CCS 2019,
pages 79–93. ACM Press, November 2019.
[41] Raluca Ada Popa, Catherine M. S. Redfield, Nickolai
Zeldovich, and Hari Balakrishnan. Cryptdb: A practical
encrypted relational dbms. In In Proceedings of the
23rd ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles
(SOSP), Cascais, Portugal, October 2011. ACM.
[42] David Pouliot and Charles V. Wright.
The shadow
nemesis: Inference attacks on efficiently deployable,
efficiently searchable encryption. In Edgar R. Weippl,
Stefan Katzenbeisser, Christopher Kruegel, Andrew C.
Myers, and Shai Halevi, editors, ACM CCS 2016, pages
1341–1352. ACM Press, October 2016.
[43] Dawn Xiaodong Song, David Wagner, and Adrian Perrig.
Practical techniques for searches on encrypted data. In
2000 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, pages
44–55. IEEE Computer Society Press, May 2000.
[44] Cédric Van Rompay, Refik Molva, and Melek Önen. A
leakage-abuse attack against multi-user searchable en-
cryption. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2017/400,
2017. https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/400.
[45] Lei Xu, Huayi Duan, Anxin Zhou, Xingliang Yuan, and
Cong Wang. Interpreting and mitigating leakage-abuse
attacks in searchable symmetric encryption. IEEE Trans-
actions on Information Forensics and Security, 16:5310–
5325, 2021.
[46] Lei Xu, Leqian Zheng, Chengzhi Xu, Xingliang Yuan,
and Cong Wang. Leakage-abuse attacks against forward
and backward private searchable symmetric encryption.
In Proceedings of the 2023 ACM SIGSAC Conference on
Computer and Communications Security, pages 3003–
3017, 2023.
[47] Xianglong Zhang, Wei Wang, Peng Xu, Laurence T.
Yang, and Kaitai Liang.
High recovery with fewer
injections: Practical binary volumetric injection at-
tacks against dynamic searchable encryption.
In
32nd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security
23), pages 5953–5970, Anaheim, CA, August 2023.
USENIX Association.
Alg Lp(⃗c,ρ)
Parse (c1,...,cn,0) ←⃗c ; N ←
n
∑
i=1
ci
f ←$ argmin
f
n
∑
i=1
|ci −N ·ρ(f(i))|p
Return f
Figure 10: The ℓp-norm optimization leakage-abuse attack,
originally presented in [37].
[48] Yupeng Zhang, Jonathan Katz, and Charalampos Pa-
pamanthou.
All your queries are belong to us: The
power of file-injection attacks on searchable encryption.
In Thorsten Holz and Stefan Savage, editors, USENIX
Security 2016, pages 707–720. USENIX Association,
August 2016.
[49] Zheguang Zhao, Seny Kamara, Tarik Moataz, and Stan
Zdonik. Encrypted databases: From theory to systems.
In CIDR, 2021.
A
Column Equality Theory
This section contains theorems and proofs omitted from the
main text for brevity. We recall an attack from prior work in
Figure 10. The following definition and lemma are useful in
proofs below.
Definition 2. Let V be an n element set, m ≤n be an inte-
ger, ⃗c = (c1,...,cm,u) ∈Zm+1, and ρ ∈Dist(V). We call a
function f : [m] →V non-crossing if for any i, j ∈[m]
ρ(f(i)) < ρ(f(j)) =⇒ci ≤cj and
ci < cj =⇒ρ(f(i)) ≤ρ(f(j)).
Lemma 1. Let V be an n element set, m ≤n be an integer,⃗c =
(c1,...,cm,u) ∈Zm+1, and ρ ∈Dist(V). Then, if f maximizes
Pr[⃗c|f = f,ρ], then f is non-crossing.
We defer the proof of Lemma 1 to the full version.
Theorem 3. For every n element set V, ⃗c ∈Zn × {0} and
ρ ∈Dist(V), and p > 1 Lp(⃗c,ρ) outputs a plaintext mapping
g such that Pr[⃗c|f = g,ρ] = maxf Pr[⃗c|f = f,ρ].
We defer the proof of Theorem 3 to the full version.
Theorem 4. There exists a 4 element set V,⃗c ∈Z5, and ρ ∈
Dist(V), such that L1(⃗c,ρ) may output a plaintext mapping g
such that Pr[⃗c|f = g,ρ] < maxf Pr[⃗c|f = f,ρ].
We defer the proof of Theorem 4 to the full version.
Theorem 5. Let ε > 0, V be an n element set, m < n be
an integer,⃗c = (c1,...,cm,u) ∈Zm+1 (with u ≥1) and ρ ∈
Dist(V) with ρ(v) ≥ε for all v ∈V. Then, SelAttackε(⃗c,ρ)
outputs a plaintext mapping g : [m] →V such that
Pr[⃗c|f = g,ρ] ≥(max
f
Pr[⃗c|f = f,ρ])−O(u(n−m)ε),
USENIX Association
33rd USENIX Security Symposium    7427

Alg POAAε(R,ρ1,ρ2,u1,u2)
If u1 = 0 return (/0,R)
If u2 = 0 return (R, /0)
{v1,...,vr} ←R
T1 ←∑i∈[r] ρ1(vi) ; T2 ←∑i∈[r] ρ2(vi)
Define rndε(x,y) = (εT1 ·⌈x
εT1 ⌋,εT2 ·⌈y
εT2 ⌋)
T[rndε(ρ1(v1),0)] ←({v1},1)
T[rndε(0,ρ2(v1))] ←(/0,1)
For i = 2,...,r:
For (x,y) ∈T.keys()
(S,c) ←T[(x,y)]
If c = i−1 then
T[rndε(x+ρ1(vi),y)] = (S∪{vi},i)
T[rndε(x,y+ρ2(vi))] = (S,i)
m ←0 ; S′ ←/0
For (x,y) ∈T.keys()
(S,c) ←T[(x,y)]
p ←(∑v∈S ρ1(v))u1(∑v∈R\S ρ2(v))u2
If c = r and p > m then
m ←p ; S′ ←S
Return (S′,R\S′)
Figure 11: Pseudocode for POAAε.
when ε > 0.
We defer the proof of Theorem 5 to the full version.
B
Partition Optimization
In this section, we discuss our new Partitioning Optimization
Approximation Algorithm (POAA). As written, POAAε uses
time an space O(|R|/ε2) in a word-RAM model. The same
functionality can be performed using only O(|R|/ε) time and
space. The idea is that we do not need to keep track of both
dimensions of the sums. Instead, we can just keep track of the
largest y available at that point for a given x sum, which is the
version used in our experiments.
We further observe that the algorithm could be further opti-
mized to use only O(|R|+ 1
ε) space at the cost of some time
by only tracking the possible sums and recursively recon-
structing the sets after the best sum is found. We leave this
code out of the paper for brevity and because we didn’t need
the space improvement in our experiments.
C
Hardness of Optimal Inference
In this section, we use the optimality definition from Sec-
tion 5 which requires an attack to return a triple (f,U1,U2)
which maximizes Pr[⃗c1,⃗c2|f = f,U1 = U1,U2 = U2,ρ1,ρ2].
For concreteness in the proof, we explicitly state the constant
implied in Section 5,
K⃗c1,⃗c2 =

N1
c1,...,cm,u1

N2
d1,...,dm,u2

,
Crime
Taxi
Rideshare
Crashes
2018
268,820
20,732,089
14,735,872
118,950
2019
261,297
16,477,366
22,783,672
117,763
2020
212,185
3,889,033
53,561
92,092
2021
208,775
3,948,046
11,150
108,764
2022
238,758
6,382,426
21,467,407
108,398
Figure 12: The number of rows for each table by year.
the product of two multinomial coefficients, with N1 = u1 +
∑i ci and N2 = u2 +∑i di.
We go on to define the DICI problem below, which is
strictly easier than finding the maximizing triple (f,U1,U2).
Name: Decision Incomplete Cross Inference (DICI)
Given: Two integers with m < n, a number t ∈[0,1],⃗c1 ∈
[n]m+1 and ⃗c2 ∈[n]m+1 and distributions ρ1 and ρ2 over [n]
and. 7
Question:
Does there exist a triple (f,U1,U2) such that
Pr[⃗c1,⃗c2|f = f,U1 = U1,U2 = U2,ρ1,ρ2] ≥t?
Theorem 6. Decision Incomplete Cross Inference (DICI) is
NP-hard.
We defer the proof of Theorem 6 to the full version.
D
Experimental Data and Results
In our experiments, we use data made public by the city of
Chicago.8 In particular, we using datasets of crimes,9 taxi
rides,10 rideshare services,11 and car crashes12 for years be-
tween 2019 and 2022. Information about the number of rows
can be found in Figure 12. The lack of data for the 2020 and
2021 years likely negatively impacted our experiments, but
we were still able to attack these anomalous years.
7Formally, this problem only takes in t and distributions which can be
described using poly(n) bits, rather than all real numbers.
8https://data.cityofchicago.org/
9https://data.cityofchicago.org/Public-Safety/
Crimes-2001-to-Present/ijzp-q8t2
10https://data.cityofchicago.org/Transportation/
Taxi-Trips/wrvz-psew
11https://data.cityofchicago.org/Transportation/
Transportation-Network-Providers-Trips-2018-2022-/
m6dm-c72p
12https://data.cityofchicago.org/Transportation/
Traffic-Crashes-Crashes/85ca-t3if
7428    33rd USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

