This paper is included in the Proceedings of the 
32nd USENIX Security Symposium.
August 9–11, 2023 • Anaheim, CA, USA
978-1-939133-37-3
Open access to the Proceedings of the 
32nd USENIX Security Symposium 
is sponsored by USENIX.
Private Proof-of-Stake Blockchains using 
Differentially-Private Stake Distortion
Chenghong Wang, David Pujol, Kartik Nayak, 
and Ashwin Machanavajjhala, Duke University
https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity23/presentation/wang-chenghong

Private Proof-of-Stake Blockchains using Differentially-Private Stake
Distortion
Chenghong Wang
Duke University
David Pujol
Duke University
Kartik Nayak
Duke University
Ashwin Machanavajjhala
Duke University
Abstract
Safety, liveness, and privacy are three critical properties
for any private proof-of-stake (PoS) blockchain. How-
ever, prior work (SP’21) has shown that to obtain safety
and liveness, a PoS blockchain must in theory forgo pri-
vacy.
Specifically, to ensure safety and liveness, PoS
blockchains elect parties based on stake proportion, po-
tentially exposing a party’s stake even with private trans-
action processing.
In this work, we make two key
contributions. First, we present the first stake inference
attack applicable to both deterministic and randomized
PoS with exponentially less running time in comparison
with SOTA designs. Second, we use differentially private
stake distortion to achieve privacy in PoS blockchains,
and design two stake distortion mechanisms that any
PoS protocol can use. We further evaluate our proposed
methods using Ethereum 2.0, a widely-recognized PoS
blockchain in operation. Results demonstrate effective
stake inference risk mitigation, reasonable privacy, and
preservation of essential safety and liveness properties.
1
Introduction
Nakamoto introduced Bitcoin’s protocol [47], promoting
open, permissionless participation in distributed ledger
maintenance. However, achieving consensus in the per-
missionless setting is hard as the traditional honest major-
ity (or two-thirds majority) assumption no longer hold as
the adversary can create any number of Sybil parties [23]
Permissionless protocols address safety against Sybils by
leveraging constraint resources, assuming honest parties
hold the majority of such resources. They are classified
into Proof-of-Work (PoW) protocols [47, 51, 54], reliant
on computing power, and Proof-of-Stake (PoS) proto-
cols [17, 58, 27, 42, 9, 8, 10], using monetary stake. While
both protocols mark a major breakthrough in distributed
consensus in a permissionless context, the reliance on
expensive computing power leads to significant energy
wastage in PoW [18], prompting a trend of shifting from
PoW to PoS blockchains [51, 27].
The open setup of the blockchain makes transac-
tion privacy an important issue.
Several PoW de-
signs [51, 49, 13] have taken the first step toward ad-
dressing this by concealing transaction details using cryp-
tographic primitives while maintaining blockchain func-
tionality. However, in PoS blockchains, merely hiding
transactions is insufficient, as the stake is also sensi-
tive [43].
Although some efforts [39, 29, 6] address
PoS privacy by hiding both transaction and stake, a re-
cent study [43] theoretically shows that SOTA designs
remain susceptible to side-channel leakages, i.e., the fre-
quency a party adding a new block, which correlates with
the party’s stake.
Additionally, they introduce reverse
tagging attacks (RTA), enabling attackers to determine
if a party’s stake exceeds a specified value. The basic
attack primitive has been deemed feasible in real-world
blockchains like Zcash [51]. Kohlweiss et al. [43] also
propose a proof-of-concept stake inference attack (SIA)
that estimates a party’s unknown stake by repeatedly us-
ing RTA with varying comparison values.
This paper tackles the following open questions. The
stake inference attack in [43] is impractical due to simpli-
fying assumptions like deterministic protocols and strict
liveness guarantees. These assumptions do not hold in
real-world executions as PoS blockchains typically oper-
ate under a probabilistic manner [17, 27]. Hence, the first
open question is whether there are stake inference attacks
that can be launched in a real-world context. Moreover,
we are not aware of any PoS design that can ensure pri-
vacy against attacks like RTA, or the derived SIA. Thus,
the second open question is if there exist private PoS
designs that address SIA risks. Motivated by the open
questions, we elaborate on our contributions as follows:
1.1
Contributions
C-1. Stake inference attacks (SIA) for PoS protocols.
• A general stake inference paradigm. We propose a gen-
eral stake inference paradigm that provides a template
USENIX Association
32nd USENIX Security Symposium    1577

for innovating efficient and accurate SIA that can be run
in practice. Our paradigm captures randomized proto-
cols by formulating liveness in a probabilistic manner
and considers robust inference strategies that tolerate
unreliable feedback, i.e.
incorrect comparisons be-
tween a candidate value and the target stake.
• RdBin, a concretestake inference attack. Following our
inference paradigm, we provide RdBin, the first prac-
tical SIA against randomized PoS protocols.
RdBin
combines random walk and binary search to adaptively
approximate the target stake with exponentially more
efficient running time than the SOTA one [43], i.e. sub-
linear complexity related to the total stake 𝑆in contrast
to the linear time ensured by [43].
C-2. Private PoS using DP Stake Distortion.
• Formulating private PoS security model. In the pres-
ence of SIAs, existing PoS protocols under the standard
UC security model [39, 43] are clearly inadequate to
achieve privacy. To address this, we define two desider-
ata that ensures a practical PoS blockchain has rigorous
and well-defined privacy. Based on this, we take the
first attempt to integrate differential privacy (DP) [26]
with previous UC security models of private ledgers
and derive a formal definition for the private PoS ledger.
The improved model inherits key components of UC
private ledger definitions but also formulates provable
stake and transaction privacy.
• Two stake distortion mechanisms that extend standard
PoS to private PoS while balancing liveliness, safety
and privacy. Though na¨ıve methods exist, i.e. partition
(disconnect) each party or use equal chance for leader
election, that address the potential privacy violations
(SIA risks). The former completely abandons liveness
while the latter provides no safety. In this work, we
propose two DP stake distortion mechanisms, namely
Timer and Binary mechanism, which can be mounted
to any PoS protocol and extend the ordinary PoS into
a private PoS under our security model. Moreover, the
resulting protocols ensure provable stake and transac-
tion privacy while preserving the original safety and
liveness guarantees at the same time.
• Publicly verifiable protocols that securely realize DP
distortion mechanisms.
In addition to the idealized
functionalities, we construct concrete protocols that se-
curely realize the them. To the best of our knowledge,
the protocols are the first attempts to provide publicly
verifiable DP mechanisms over continual observations.
• Case study with real-world blockchains We conduct
case studies on Ethereum 2.0 [27] to show that the stake
distortion imbues real-world blockchains with reason-
able stake privacy while retaining the original safety
and liveness. We also compare the methods and exam-
ine how they differ in ensuring these properties.
• Prototype protocol and efficiency evaluation. We im-
plement prototype stake distortion protocols and eval-
uate their efficiencies. The result indicates evaluating
stake distortions adds small overheads to blockchain
protocols (i.e. less than 13% of Zcash [51]’s protocol).
Moreover, the distortion occurs over certain intervals,
which causes the amortized cost to be even smaller.
The paper is structured as follows: Section 2 covers
background, Section 3 addresses stake inference attacks,
Sections 4 and 5 present private PoS desiderata and our
privacy model, while Sections 6,7, and8 detail our private
PoS design, case studies, and evaluations.
2
Background
Private ledger. We now examine the private ledger func-
tionality ( 2.1), GPL, considered by this work, which is
adapted from earlier UC formulations [39, 43] of private
ledgers. Given its complexity, we outline the function-
ality concisely, suitable for technical dialogues. For the
extended discussions, please refer to our full version [57].
Functionality 2.1: GPL
The functionality GPL manages a general ledger state,
state; a local state state𝑖(a prefix of state) for every
party 𝑃𝑖; a buffer of unconfirmed transactions, buffer;
and a sequence of honest inputs I𝐻.
Upon receiving any input 𝐼from party 𝑃𝑖, record
I𝐻←I𝐻||(𝐼, 𝑃𝑖,𝑡), if 𝐼is not SUBMIT command, then
evaluate the following:
(a) (Add Transaction). If 𝐼is (SUBMIT,sid,tx), and
tx is valid.
Add tx to buffer, and update I𝐻=
I𝐻||(𝐼,blind(tx),𝑡) with the blinded transaction,
i.e. it hides the sender, recipient, and amount of tx
(b) (Read State). Return the blinded version of 𝑃𝑖’s
local state, blind(state𝑖), with all non-𝑃𝑖transac-
tions replaced by blind ones. If 𝑃𝑖is corrupted,
send (blind(state𝑖),I𝐻,Lkg) to the adversary.
(c) (Extend chain). If 𝐼is (MAINTAIN LEDGER,sid),
then perform the ledger maintenance [40, 19, 3]
to add valid transactions in buffer to state.
In line with prior formulations [39, 43], we let the
adversary know when corrupted party transactions are
confirmed. Thus, in blind(state𝑖), only non-𝑃𝑖transac-
tions are replaced with blind ones. In addition, GPL is also
parameterized with a leakage profile Lkg, revealing block
proposer (the party who maintains the ledger) identities
per round. It is noteworthy that Kohlweiss et al. [43] theo-
retically demonstrated the nonexistence of private ledgers
without leaking block proposer identities (even in pres-
ence of anonymous broadcast channels). We stress that
1578    32nd USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

Lkg is indeed protocol-specific which especially depends
on how the protocol elects the block proposer. However,
in PoS blockchains, block proposers are typically chosen
through a “private lottery” [29], where the odds of a party
winning ledger maintenance eligibility is proportional to
their stake. Hence, one may nevertheless formulate Lkg
as a function over each party’s stake.
Definition 2.1. Protocol Î is said to be a private ledger
with leakage Lkg ifitUC-realizes[15] GPL inthepresence
of a p.p.t. adversary.
Private ledger properties. Following the ledger prop-
erties discussed in previous works [40, 19, 39, 43], we
formulate important properties considered by this work.
Definition 2.2 (Private ledger properties). Let Î to be a
private ledger protocol executed by a set of parties. We
consider the following properties hold when 𝑓fraction of
the parties is malicious.
• Safety: No two honest users disagree on confirmed
transactions (i.e., transactions appended to state).
• (𝑧,𝑡)-Liveness: Any valid transaction that is input
to at least an honest 𝑧≤(1−𝑓) fraction of the total
parties, will be appended to state within 𝑡time steps.
Consistent with [17, 14, 45, 59], we consider at least
2
3 fraction of the total stake is owned by the honest par-
ties, and correspondingly 𝑓< 1
3 is interpreted as mali-
cious corrupted stake fraction.
Moreover, for various
reasons, the properties in Definition 2.2 may be ensured
in a probabilistic manner. For example, Algorand [17]
and Ouroboros [40] use randomness for efficiency thus
ensures safety or liveness only with high probability.
Privacy tradeoffs and attacks against PoS. Kohlweiss
et al. [43] demonstrated that it is theoretically impossi-
ble to have a private ledger ensuring liveness without
revealing the block proposer’s identity. Moreover, recog-
nizing block proposers over time reveals the frequency at
which parties take on the block proposer role. In PoS
blockchains, such frequency correlates with a party’s
stake, potentially leading to stake privacy loss and al-
lowing attackers to deduce an individual’s stake.
For
example, Kohlweiss et al. [43] examined the Reverse
Tagging Attack (RTA), enabling attackers to assess if a
party’s stake surpasses a specified threshold. RTA’s idea
involves creating input disparities between a target and
other nodes, such as by delaying specific transactions.
For example, the attacker delays a self-created transac-
tion tx for a target 𝑃𝑣with stake 𝑓𝑣, and a set of corrupted
nodes with stake 𝑓cmp. If tx isn’t confirmed after 𝑡steps,
by (𝑧,𝑡)-liveness, the attacker learns 𝑓𝑣≥1−𝑧−𝑓cmp.
The delay operation was implemented using the In-
vblock technique, first proposed in [46] and was later
used to infer Bitcoin topology [21]. Kohlweiss et al. [43]
further assessed the validity of Invblock against private
ledgers, i.e. Zcash [51]. Note that, the cost of launching
Invblock is low, as it necessitates the attacker becoming
one of the victim’s peers in the P2P network, rather than
compromising all target node peers.
Additionally, [43] also outlined a stake inference attack
(SIA) design by iteratively applying RTA with adaptive
𝑓cmp. The attacker starts with 𝑓cmp = 0 and repeats RTA,
increasing 𝑓cmp by 1
𝑆each time until the first 𝑓cmp satisfies
𝑓𝑣≥1−𝑧−𝑓cmp, where ˆ𝑓𝑣= 1−𝑧−𝑓cmp approximates 𝑓𝑣.
Differential privacy [26]. guarantees that altering one
input data element in an algorithm or mechanism imposes
minimal impact on the output. More specifically, let 𝐷
and 𝐷′ be two databases that differ by only a single tuple,
namely neighboring databases, then:
Definition 2.3 (𝜖-differential privacy). Given 𝜖> 0, a
randomized mechanism M is 𝜖-DP if for all pair of
neighboring databases 𝐷, 𝐷′, and any possible output
𝑜⊂𝑅𝑎𝑛𝑔𝑒(M), the following holds:
Pr [M(𝐷) ∈𝑜] ≤𝑒𝜖Pr [M(𝐷′) ∈𝑜]
An alternative definition, known as approximate DP or
(𝜖,𝛿)-DP, allows a small failure probability 𝛿in addition
to the constraints in Definition 2.3. In this paper, the focus
is on 𝜖-DP, while an extended discussion that considers
the relaxed (𝜖,𝛿)-DP can be found in our full version [57].
3
Stake Inference Attack
In this section, we discuss practical stake inference attacks
against PoS protocols. In general, given a target party 𝑃𝑣
with stake 𝑓𝑣, we consider attack strategies to adaptively
choose ˆ𝑓𝑣that minimizes the error | ˆ𝑓𝑣−𝑓𝑣|.
3.1
Issues with the SOTA Approach [43]
I-1. Restricted to deterministic protocols. Kohlweiss et
al. [43] consider rather idealized deterministic protocols,
assuming stringent liveness conditions.
However, this
assumption may not align with real-world scenarios, as
most blockchains function probabilistically, with liveness
typically guaranteed at a high probability [17, 27].
I-2. RTA: One-sided comparison only. Based on (𝑧,𝑡)-
liveness, tx can be confirmed even if less than 𝑧fraction of
honest parties receive it. Therefore, the 𝑠𝑣+ 𝑓cmp < (1−𝑧)
conclusion may not hold when tx is confirmed within 𝑡
steps, potentially causing 𝑓𝑣to be larger than ˆ𝑓𝑣. This
one-sided comparison limitation makes RTA-based SIA
less reliable for accurate stake inferences.
I-3. Inefficient search strategy. The linear scan strat-
egy considered by [43] requires a large number of RTA
executions, which is inherently inefficient.
USENIX Association
32nd USENIX Security Symposium    1579

The aforementioned limitations reduce the practicality
of RTA-based SIA. In what follows, we focus on develop-
ing a practical SIA that is efficient, accurate, and suitable
for randomized PoS protocols.
3.2
The General Stake Inference Paradigm
In this section, we show that the problem of finding accu-
rate stake inference against probabilistic PoS blockchains
can be reduced to a variant of Noisy Search problem [37].
Definition 3.1 (Noisy search problem). Given 𝑛coins
sorted by head probabilities (𝑝𝑖for the 𝑖𝑡ℎcoin) and a
target coin with 𝑝1 ≤𝑝∗≤𝑝𝑛, an algorithm must find two
coins𝑖,𝑖+1 satisfying a given 𝜏> 0 such that [𝑝𝑖, 𝑝𝑖+1] in-
tersects [𝑝∗−𝜏, 𝑝∗+𝜏], without knowing exact head prob-
abilities but being allowed to flip coins
The general reduction idea is to map stake to simu-
lated biased coins so that inferring stake values reduces
to locating search coins that is close to a target coin with
heads probability tied to 𝑓𝑣. Details are as follows.
Formulating liveness. To simulate stake-based biased
coins, we rely on the liveness ensured by the blockchain.
To apply to randomized protocols, we adapt the (𝑧,𝑡)-
Liveness definition accordingly.
Definition 3.2 (Probabilistic (𝑧,𝑡)-liveness). For any
transaction tx that is input to 𝑧fraction of the honest
parties, the probability tx is NOT confirmed after 𝑡time
steps equals to 𝑞(1−𝑧,𝑡), where 𝑞(·) is a monotonically
increasing function related to 1−𝑧.
In general, 𝑞(·) is highly related to the protocol spec-
ification.
For example, assuming the probability of a
party proposing the next block is determined by a slot
function 𝜙(·) [29, 39, 43] over its stake. One may ob-
tain 𝑞(1−𝑧,𝑡) = (1−𝜙(𝑧))𝑡for any 𝑧,𝑡> 0. Although, this
probability may differ from the theoretical one in real ex-
ecutions, i.e., due to some other configurations, such as
timeouts, transaction pool size, etc. One may assume that
as long as the protocol specification does not change, the
value of 𝑞(𝑧,𝑡) remains stable for any 𝑧and 𝑡. Moreover,
the actual value of 𝑞(·) in real executions may be not
directly computable, but one may evaluate it empirically.
Simulating “stake-based” biased coins. Given a node
(or a group of nodes) with relative stake 𝑓𝑥, we provide
an interface for simulating a biased coin with heads prob-
ability equal to 𝑞( 𝑓𝑥,𝑡) for any 𝑡> 0. Note there are two
types of biased coins, the search coin and the target coin,
for which the simulations are different. In simulating the
search coin, the attacker knows the pre-image 𝑓𝑥, while
it is unknown when simulating the target coin.
To simulate a search coin, the attacker first samples a
set of corrupted nodes with total stake 𝑓𝑥, then broadcasts
a self-created transaction, tx, to everyone, but removes tx
from the sampled nodes’ transaction pool. The attacker
waits for 𝑡time steps to observe if tx is confirmed. By
Definition 3.2 the probability of tx not being confirmed
after 𝑡steps is 𝑞( 𝑓𝑥,𝑡). For the target coin, we utilize the
delay operation considered by previous works [43, 46].
Specifically, the attacker broadcasts tx to everyone but
delays it to the victim, such that tx does not reach 𝑃𝑣for
at least 𝑡time steps. Similarly, the attacker then waits to
observe if tx is confirmed after 𝑡steps, where the “not
confirmed” probability equals 𝑞( 𝑓𝑣,𝑡).
For demonstration purposes, we consider 𝑡= 1 to be
the default setting and therefore omit it. In what follows,
we use 𝑝𝑥to directly denote the heads probability of a
stake-based biased coin with pre-image 𝑓𝑥.
Reduction. We provide an abstract algorithm for SIA by
assuming the existence of a black-box solver, ns solver,
for the noisy search problem. Given 𝑃𝑣with stake 𝑓𝑣,
and 𝑛sorted stake values, the algorithm simulates cor-
responding search coins as well as the target coin then
inputs them to ns solver along with a specified 𝜏. Upon
receiving two coins 𝑖,𝑖+ 1 output from ns solver, the
algorithm computes 𝑞−1(𝑝𝑖) and, 𝑞−1(𝑝𝑖+1) to obtain the
pre-images 𝑓𝑎, and 𝑓𝑏, then returns
𝑓𝑎+ 𝑓𝑏
2
as ˆ𝑓. Note
that, in simulating the search coins, the algorithm knows
the pre-image of each stake-based biased coin, and thus
𝑓𝑎+ 𝑓𝑏
2
can be obtained within constant time. Therefore,
if ns solver requires 𝑇(𝑛) times coins tosses before ter-
mination, then the running time of the SIA is dominated
by 𝑇(𝑛) many simulated coin flips. Figure 1 shows a
diagram of the aforementioned reduction.
ns_solver
Party 𝑃!
with stake 𝑓!
Candidates
(𝑓", 𝑓#,… , 𝑓$)
sim_target_coin
𝑝!,𝑝!"#
Search coins
(𝑝#,𝑝$, …, 𝑝%)
Target coin 𝑝&
sim_search_coin
Given τ finds
𝑝!,𝑝!"# that
intersects 𝑝& ± 𝜏
Outputs
𝑓'!
convert_outputs
Obtain pre-
image 𝑓' ,𝑓)
corresponds to
𝑝!,𝑝!"#
𝑓+& ←𝑓' + 𝑓)
2
Figure 1: Reduction diagram.
3.3
Practical Stake Inference Attack
Following our reduction, we provide RdBin, a practical
SIA that combines random walk and binary search. Simi-
lar to [43], we examine a loosely dynamic scenario where
honest parties’ stakes remain stable over short periods but
change over longer durations. RdBin is parametered by
𝜃> 0, and 𝜏∈(0,1), and is given a balanced (stake) bi-
nary tree ST with each node labeled with a stake segment
[ 𝑓𝑎, 𝑓𝑏] ⊆[0, 𝑓]. Specifically, the root is labeled with
[0, 𝑓], and for every internal node 𝑣with label [ 𝑓𝑎, 𝑓𝑏],
its left and right child is labeled with [ 𝑓𝑎,𝑚] and [𝑚, 𝑓𝑏],
respectively, where 𝑚= ⌊𝑓𝑎+ 𝑓𝑏
2
⌋. Moreover, all leaf nodes
satisfy 𝑓𝑏−𝑓𝑎= 𝜃
𝑆. The algorithm starts with a random
walk in ST from the root, and for each round 𝑡(assuming
1580    32nd USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

at node 𝑣(𝑡)), it evaluates a probabilistic stake compara-
tor, 𝑝SC, that compares 𝑓𝑣with the pivot of 𝑣(𝑡), say
𝑓𝑎+ 𝑓𝑏
2
.
If 𝑓𝑣< 𝑓𝑎+ 𝑓𝑏
2
is claimed by 𝑝SC, it moves to
the left child, otherwise to the right child. RdBin halts
and outputs ˆ𝑓←𝑓𝑎+ 𝑓𝑏
2
, if it reaches a leaf node or 𝑝SC
asserts min diff. The details are shown in Algorithm 1.
Algorithm 1 𝑝SC( 𝑓𝑣, 𝑓cmp,𝜏,𝛿)
1: Sample a set of corrupted users 𝑃𝑐with stake 𝑓cmp
2: for 𝑖= 1,2,3... do 𝑝0 = 𝑝1 = 0
3:
𝜏𝑖= 𝑒−𝑖/2, 𝛿𝑖= 𝛿/𝑒𝑖, 𝑛𝑖= log(1/𝛿𝑖)/𝜏2
𝑖
4:
if 𝜏𝑖< 𝜏then assert min diff
5:
for 𝑗= 1,...,𝑛𝑖do (𝑏∈{0,1})
6:
Broadcast conflicting transactions† tx0, tx1
7:
Delay tx0 to 𝑃𝑣and remove tx1 from 𝑃𝑐.
8:
𝑝𝑏= 𝑝𝑏+1/𝑛𝑖, if tx𝑏is not confirmed
9:
if |𝑝0 −𝑝1| ≥2𝜏𝑖then
10:
assert 𝑓𝑣> 𝑓cmp if 𝑝0 > 𝑝1 else 𝑓𝑣≤𝑓cmp
†As long as one transaction is confirmed, the other one is invalid, this
allow us to flip two biased coins at the same time.
Theorem 1. Given 𝛿, 𝜏∈(0,1), 𝜏c = |𝑞( 𝑓𝑣)−𝑞( 𝑓cmp)|,
and 𝜏𝑚= max(𝜏,𝜏𝑐), with probability at least 1−𝛿, 𝑝SC
outputs correctly after expected 𝑂 𝜏−2
𝑚ln(1/𝛿𝜏𝑚) many
simulated coin tosses.
For each round 𝑖, the failure probability of testing coins
is at most 𝛿𝑖, thus by union bound [32], the failure prob-
ability for the entire testing is bounded by Í
𝑖𝛿𝑖< 𝛿. By
Hoeffding’s inequality, the probability that 𝑝SC to con-
tinue running for 𝜏𝑖< 1
2𝜏decreases exponentially in 𝑛𝑖.
Thus the expected complexity is dominated by the com-
plexity of round 𝑖= log(
1
max(𝜏,𝜏c) ), which is consistent
with Theorem 1. We extend this to full proofs in Ap-
pendix B.1. Overall, 𝑝SC provides accurate two-sided
comparisons with a bounded failure probability. More-
over, by setting 𝛿= (log 𝑆
𝜃)−1, the random walk ensures
movement towards the correct node with probability at
least 1−(log 𝑆
𝜃)−1, and by union bound, the failure prob-
ability of RdBin is bounded by a constant factor.
Theorem 2. Let 𝑛= 𝑆
𝜃, 𝛿= 𝑂(1/log𝑛), 𝑝𝑣= 𝑞( 𝑓𝑣), and
𝜂= max  |𝑞−1(𝑝𝑣± 𝜏) −𝑓𝑣|, then RdBin satisfies:
1. The running time is 𝑂(𝜏−2log (log𝑛/𝜏) log𝑛).
2. With constant failure probability, RdBin outputs an
inference ˆ𝑓𝑣with error | ˆ𝑓𝑣−𝑓𝑣| ≤max( 𝜃
𝑆,𝜂).
Note that RdBin represents only one construction un-
der our general inference paradigm, and there exist many
other designs in this space.
Due to the simplicity of
RdBin and the fact that its implementation does not re-
quire extra memory, we present it as the default attack.
One may also derive certain extensions on RdBin. First, it
is possible to flip even more simulated coins at once. For
instance, one can create a set of (conflicting) transactions,
tx1,tx2,...,tx𝑛, broadcasting them all at once, but delay-
ing the arrival of each tx 𝑗to a specific target 𝑃𝑗. This
further enables the attacker to construct a parallelized
RdBin against multiple victims. Second, as the stake is
the additive outcome of a series of transactions. It’s obvi-
ous that one can utilize RdBin to extrapolate transactions
outcome for any victim 𝑃𝑣between any two time steps.
4
Private PoS Desiderata
We discuss requirements for achieving a private PoS by
defining two desiderata that are designed to ensure a prac-
tical protocol has rigorous and well-defined privacy.
D-1: Well-defined privacy on leakage.
Any private
PoS should provide a rigorous and provable bound on
the leakage of each party’s stake and transactions. To
facilitate this we say that in addition to the standard UC
security model (Definition 2.1), a private PoS should also
meet additional privacy definitions, i.e., Definition 5.4,
which constrains the knowledge that an adversary can
obtain regarding each party’s stake and transactions by
observing the associated leakages.
D-2. Balance privacy, safety and liveness. While safety
and liveness are traditionally ensured through a PoS pro-
tocol, introducing privacy may create tension between
these properties. For instance, one could ensure privacy
by using a consensus protocol that is completely inde-
pendent of the parties’ stake. But such a system would
not be safe, since the fundamental purpose of introducing
stake is to address safety against Sybils. Thus, given all
of safety, liveness, and privacy may not be achievable
simultaneously, we require a practical private PoS ledger
should balance between these three properties.
5
Privacy Model
5.1
Privacy Requirements
PR-1. Limited stake inference. In general, we require
that any attacker should not infer the current stake owned
by a certain party (by observing the protocol leakage)
within an additive bound 𝛼. We assume that the adver-
sary knows all parties involved in the protocol, as their
participation can be easily identified, for example, when
block proposers broadcast the updated ledger states, it
inevitably indicates their involvement in the ledger main-
tenance. Hence, we do not require stronger privacy in the
form of “the existence of a party cannot be inferred”.
PR-2. Privacy with expiration. Considering that the
parties’ stake changes dynamically, stake privacy should
be ensured under continual observation [25]. Ideally, we
desire to obtain the same degree of privacy for each time
step based on all information disclosed until that time
step. However, providing such strong privacy guarantees
USENIX Association
32nd USENIX Security Symposium    1581

inherently leads to errors accumulating over time [25, 24].
In the context of PoS blockchains, this can result in a large
distorted adversarial stake potentially causing a signifi-
cant decline in safety or liveness guarantees. Therefore,
to balance between these properties, in this work, we
adopt a relaxed “privacy with expiration” model [12, 38].
In this model, we aim to achieve strong privacy for par-
ties’ stake within a recent time frame while allowing the
privacy of parties’ past stake to gradually decay over time.
PR-3. Transaction privacy. We also consider transac-
tion privacy, that is, we bound the attacker’s ability to
infer the outcome of any party’s transaction. Typically,
as the stake value directly reflects the additive outcome
of transactions, achieving PR-1 and PR-2 also implies
transaction privacy if the protocol leakage is subject to
parties’ stake, i.e., no information relevant to the trans-
action outcome is disclosed to the adversary, other than
what can be obtained from the parties’ stake at each time.
Putting it all together. Combining PR-1, 2, 3, we for-
mulate our privacy requirements using Pufferfish [41]
framework, a well-known tool that translates common
privacy requirements into formal definitions [35].
Definition 5.1 (Stake privacy requirement). Let 𝑃=
{𝑃1, 𝑃2,..., 𝑃𝑛} denote the set of participants with 𝑆𝑖=
{𝑠𝑖
1,𝑠𝑖
2,...} as the stake history for party 𝑃𝑖, where 𝑠𝑖
𝑗is
𝑃𝑖’s stake at time 𝑗. We denote 𝜃𝑖∈Θ as the attacker’s
belief about 𝑃𝑖’s stake, where Θ is the set of all possible
adversarial beliefs.
Given a private ledger with leak-
age Lkg, and 𝜖,𝛼> 0, we require that at any time 𝑡the
following holds for all 𝜃𝑖∈Θ, and 𝑜∈𝑅𝑎𝑛𝑔𝑒(Lkg).
Pr𝜃𝑖
h
𝑠𝑖
𝑗= 𝑥| Lkg = 𝑜
i
Pr𝜃𝑖
h
𝑠𝑖
𝑗= 𝑦| Lkg = 𝑜
i
 Pr𝜃𝑖
h
𝑠𝑖
𝑗= 𝑥
i
Pr𝜃𝑖
h
𝑠𝑖
𝑗= 𝑦
i ≤𝑒𝜔(𝑡−𝑗) 𝜖
(1)
where 𝑗∈[1,𝑡] and 𝑥, 𝑦∈R such that Pr[𝑠𝑖
𝑗= 𝑥] ≥0,
Pr[𝑠𝑖
𝑗= 𝑦] ≥0, and 𝑥≤𝑦≤𝑥+𝛼. 𝜔is the privacy decay
multiplier, which is a monotonically increasing function
related to (𝑡−𝑗) with 𝜔(0) = 1.
As in Definition 5.1, the privacy requirement limits the
maximum Bayes factor that an attacker can learn, after
observing the leakage Lkg, regarding the stake owned
by any party at any point of time. Such a factor with
respect to the most recent stake 𝑠𝑡is bounded by 𝑒𝜖.
Furthermore, for any stake 𝑠𝑗that is (𝑡−𝑗) time steps
away from current time, such a factor is bounded by
𝑒𝜔(𝑡−𝑗)×𝜖, which captures the notion of privacy decay
(PR-2). Note that, Definition 5.1 also addresses transac-
tion privacy (PR-3). More specifically, let tx𝑗:𝑗+1 as 𝑃𝑖’s
additive transactions outcome between time 𝑗and 𝑗+ 1.
Since tx 𝑗:𝑗+1 = 𝑠𝑗+1 −𝑠𝑗and by Equation 1, the attacker’s
posterior odds (after observing the leakage Lkg) about
tx 𝑗: 𝑗+1 = 𝑥rather than tx 𝑗: 𝑗+1 = 𝑦(𝑥≤𝑦≤𝑥+𝛼) is at most
𝑒𝜔(𝑡−𝑗)×𝜖times the attacker’s prior odds.
5.2
Formal Privacy Definition
In this section, we discuss the formal privacy model con-
sidered by this work.
First, we formulate the leakage
privacy following the notion of differential privacy [26].
Definition 5.2 ((𝛼,𝑢)-neighbors). Let 𝑆𝑡= {𝑠1,...,𝑠𝑡}
and 𝑆′
𝑡= {𝑠′
1,...,𝑠′
𝑡} be the any two stake histories up
to time 𝑡. 𝑆𝑡and 𝑆′
𝑡are (𝛼,𝑢)-neighbors if the following
holds: (i) 𝛼> 0, and 𝑢∈(0,𝑡]; (ii) 𝑠𝑗= 𝑠′
𝑗for all 𝑗≤𝑢;
and (iii) 𝑠𝑗≤𝑠′
𝑗≤𝑠𝑗+𝛼for all 𝑗> 𝑢.
Definition 5.3 ((𝛼,𝜖)-private leakage). Given Lkg that
depends on stake, Lkg is said to be (𝛼,𝜖)-private, if for
any two (𝛼,𝑢)-neighbor stake histories 𝑆𝑡, and 𝑆′
𝑡, any
output 𝑜⊂𝑅𝑎𝑛𝑔𝑒(Lkg), and any 𝑃𝑖, the following holds
Pr
h
Lkg⟨𝑃𝑖,𝑆𝑡⟩= 𝑜
i
≤𝑒𝜔(𝑡−𝑢) 𝜖·Pr
h
Lkg⟨𝑃𝑖,𝑆′
𝑡⟩= 𝑜
i
(2)
where Lkg⟨𝑃𝑖,𝑆𝑡⟩(resp. Lkg⟨𝑃𝑖,𝑆′
𝑡⟩) denotes the leakage
when 𝑃𝑖’s stake history is activated by 𝑆𝑡(resp. 𝑆′
𝑡), and
𝜔is the decay function related to 𝑡−𝑢with 𝜔(0) = 1.
Theorem 3. If Lkg is (𝛼,𝜖) private (Definition 5.3), then
Lkg satisfies all privacy requirements (Definition 5.1).
We stress that DP is a special case of Pufferfish pri-
vacy [41], and applying DP on party’s stake history
ensures all privacy requirements listed in Section 5.1.
For complete proofs, interested readers can refer to Ap-
pendix B.3. Next, we formally define the private PoS
ledger under the UC framework [15].
Definition 5.4 ((𝛼,𝜖)-private PoS ledger). A PoS ledger
protocol is said to be (𝛼,𝜖)-private (resp. (𝛼,𝜖,𝛿)-
private), if: (i) it UC realizes [5] GPL with leakage Lkg in
the presence of a p.p.t. adversary A and (ii) the leakage
Lkg is (𝛼,𝜖)-private (resp. (𝛼,𝜖,𝛿)-private).
We stress that private ledger protocols are allowed to
interact with auxiliary functionalities (hybrids), which
captured the resources that are available to parties. The
composability property [5] of UC states that if 𝜋interacts
with F to UC realize functionality G, and 𝜋F UC realizes
F , then substituting calls to F in 𝜋with calls to 𝜋F
results in a secure protocol for G in the hybrid world.
This also provides the flexibility to analyze the security
of complex protocols in a modular manner. In this paper,
we primarily focus on the ledger maintenance protocol
(i.e., the sub-protocol that UC realizes MANTAIN LEDGER
command in GPL), as this is the main component that
leaks stake-related information [19, 29, 39].
1582    32nd USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

6
Private PoS with Stake Distortion
To mitigate SIA risks, na¨ıve approaches exist. For in-
stance, one may consider each party to maintain the ledger
with the same chance, but clearly, this provides no safety
at all. Although this can be improved by letting one party
own multiple nodes, each contributing independently to
ledger maintenance, it requires a single party running the
private lottery protocol multiple times, causing signifi-
cant overhead for large stakeholders. Another option is
to disconnect or impose long delays for each party to
produce new blocks, but this severely impacts liveness.
Steered by our privacy model, we propose our private
PoS design, which not only ensures provable privacy but
also strikes a balance between safety and liveness.
6.1
Design Overview
We first provide a brief overview of the general design
pattern (Protocol 6.1) for a PoS-based ledger maintenance
protocol, from the view of a party 𝑃.
This pattern is
abstracted from previous constructions [43, 29].
Protocol 6.1: Ledger Maintenance, Î
LM
1: Get lottery inputs: (in,comin,𝑟) ←Fstk
// in obtained from Fsd is the true stake
(In our design, Î
LM∗, lottery inputs are obtained
via interacting with (in,comin,𝑟) ←Fsd, where in
returned by Fsd is the distorted stake)
2: Evaluate a private lottery: ret ←priv lottery(in)
3: if ret == WIN then
4:
Generate zero-knowledge proof, 𝜋, proving:
(a) the party wins the lottery with input in
(b) lottery input in is consistent with comin.
5:
Perform the ledger maintenance activities.
In general, ledger maintenance execution occurs in dis-
crete time slots, during which slot leaders are elected
through private lotteries to update ledger states. Specifi-
cally, in each round, each party 𝑃interacts with a func-
tionality Fstk [29] to obtain the lottery input in and par-
takes in a private lottery with winning odds tied to in. If
𝑃wins, then she contributes to ledger maintenance along
with a zero-knowledge proof of eligibility. Typically, to
implement such a proof, other parties should also access
a hiding commitment comin to 𝑃’s lottery input from Fstk
(while in practice, such commitments can efficiently be
computed from the blockchain[39]). However, the actual
value of in and the opening 𝑟for comin remain exclusive
to 𝑃. In a PoS blockchain, the lottery input in returned
by Fstk is 𝑃’s true stake at the current time.
However, as mentioned before, the standard PoS de-
sign unavoidably reveals the frequency of each party’s
lottery wins, closely linked to the party’s true stake and
enabling accurate stake inferences. To mitigate this, our
design modifies how parties acquire lottery inputs while
imposing no changes to other components. Specifically,
we consider parties interacting with a new functionality,
Fsd, which produces a distorted stake as the lottery in-
put for each party at every time. This suggests that one
may directly derive an actual protocol under our design
from the standard one by mounting functionality Fsd,
i.e., replacing how the parties obtain private lottery in-
puts with a subroutine call to Fsd. As the input retrieval
is completely independent of the core protocol, the de-
rived protocol thus retains the security guarantees of the
original protocol [29]. Moreover, the leakage for the de-
rived protocol is no longer related to users’ true stake, but
rather tied to their distorted stake.
Theorem 4. Given protocol Î
LM that UC-emulates
MAINTAIN LEDGER
in
GPL
with
Fstk
and
Lkg =
𝜙 {𝑆𝑖}1≤𝑖≤𝑛
, replacing Fstk in Î
LM with Fsd yields
a protocol Î
LM∗that UC-emulates MAINTAIN LEDGER
with Lkg = 𝜙 { ˜𝑆𝑖}1≤𝑖≤𝑛
, where 𝜙is a slot leader func-
tion mapping parties’ stake distribution over time to a
sequence of slot leaders, and 𝑆𝑖and ˜𝑆𝑖denote 𝑃𝑖’s true
and distorted (by Fsd) stake history, respectively.
We provide complete proof of Theorem 4 in Ap-
pendix B.4.
As stake-related leakage occurs solely in
leader election [40, 39, 19], we consider the distorted
stake to be used exclusively for the private lottery. For
instance, to issue and validate payment transactions, one
should keep using the true stake. This further suggests
that other protocols of the standard design, i.e., the trans-
action submission and validation, undergo no alterations.
In addition, by the composability of UC, if Î
LM∗realizes
GPL through calls to Fsd, and Î
sd realizes Fsd, then sub-
stituting calls to Fsd with subroutine calls to Î
sd leads
to a secure protocol for GPL. This enables us to explicitly
establish our design objectives as designing practical Fsd
that produces noisy stake satisfying Definition 5.3 and
devising protocols that securely realize Fsd.
6.2
Differentially Private Stake Distortion
We start with two different designs of Fsd, namely, the
timer (FTimer) and the binary mechanism (FBin).
Timer mechanism FTimer. In general, the mechanism
periodically (every 𝑇time steps) distorts each party’s
stake with fresh Laplace noise drawn from Lap( 𝛼
𝜖). For
other times between two distortions, it reuses the noisy
stake in the previous round. The rationale for distorting
stake in a periodic manner (as opposed to distorting every
time) is twofold. First, parties’ stake generally exhibits
stability over short intervals. Insignificant stake changes
exert negligible effects on their lottery winning odds,
rendering the release of a new distorted stake each time
unwarranted. Second, distorting stake in a less frequent
manner yields a smoother privacy decay (Section 6.3),
otherwise stake privacy may drop significantly over a
USENIX Association
32nd USENIX Security Symposium    1583

short time. Note that the distorted stake can be negative
due to the symmetry of the Laplace noise. We stress that
a party with a negative stake is treated the same as no
stake, and thus the corresponding party has no chance of
winning the following private lottery.
Theorem 5. Protocol Î
LM∗mounted with FTimer is
(𝛼,𝜖)-private with privacy decay 𝜔(𝑡−𝑢) = ⌊𝑡−𝑢
𝑇⌋.
By the theory of the the Laplace mechanism [26], the
privacy loss for all stake values within the latest 𝑇time
steps is bounded by 𝜖. Moreover, due to multiple releases
of the noisy stake at different times, the privacy loss of
any historical stake follows the privacy loss under 𝑘-fold
composition rules [26]. Thus, one can obtain a linear
decay function such that 𝜔(𝑡−𝑢) = ⌊𝑡−𝑢
𝑇⌋. We defer the
complete proof of Theorem 5 in Appendix B.5.
Binary mechanism FBin. We improve upon FTimer and
provide the binary (tree) mechanism, FBin, which pro-
vides a smoother (logarithmic) privacy decay over time.
In general, the mechanism relies on the fact that any
party’s stake is the additive outcome of all her trans-
actions. For each party 𝑃𝑖, the functionality internally
groups all 𝑃𝑖’s transactions based on transaction time,
wherein the additive outcome of each group represents a
partial sum (p-sum) of 𝑃𝑖’s current stake. Subsequently,
FBin distorts each p-sum using Laplace noises, and for
each time, the noisy stake is obtained by aggregating a
set of noisy p-sums. Moreover, a single noisy p-sum may
be reused to derive multiple noisy stake at different times,
which further leads to less privacy loss over time.
[1,8]
[1,4]
[5,8]
[1,2]
[3,4]
[5,6]
[7,8]
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Next phase 1
Last phase 1
8×- intervals
(a) Binary interval tree
[1,8]
[1,4]
[5,8]
[1,2]
[3,4]
[5,6]
[7,8]
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Last phase 1: ,′
Noisy stake: tx∗
0̃"!#$% = tx∗
+ 45 1,4 + 45[5,6] + 45[7]
Noisy stake
Noisy p-sum
67896:_<=>:?(,&, ,& + 7A)
(b) Determine noisy p-sums
Figure 2: Example of Binary Mechanism with 𝐿= 8𝑇
Specifically, FBin features two distortion phases.
In
phase one, FBin releases a new distorted stake every 𝐿≫𝑇
time steps acting as a single noisy p-sum, reused for the
next 𝐿steps. Phase two occurs between phase one dis-
tortions, with a new stake released every 𝑇time steps.
Precisely, FBin employs a binary interval tree, with leaf
nodes representing time intervals of length 𝑇and in-
ternal nodes integrating their children’s time intervals.
Figure 2a shows an example. For every 𝑇time steps,
FBin identifies a set of disjoint tree nodes that uniquely
cover the interval from the last phase one distortion to
the current time. More specifically given the last phase
one distortion time 𝑡′ and the current time 𝑗, we use the
following algorithm to cover [𝑡, 𝑗]: (i) Set index 𝑎= 𝑡′,
identify the sub-interval (tree node) [𝑎,𝑏] ⊆[𝑎, 𝑗] en-
compassing 𝑇· 2𝑘time steps, with 𝑇· 2𝑘+1 > | 𝑗−𝑎|; (ii)
Update 𝑎= 𝑏+1 and repeat step (i) until the entire interval
is covered. For better illustration, we show an example
in Figure 2b. Note that, by running the aforementioned
strategy, at most log2( 𝐿
𝑇) nodes are required to uniquely
any intervals.
Subsequently, FBin groups transactions
based on selected nodes, computes noisy p-sums, and
aggregates them into a new noisy stake.
For any stake 𝑠𝑢with 𝑢≤𝑡(current time), the total
privacy loss of 𝑠𝑢under FBin comes from both distortion
phases. By Theorem 5, the phase one privacy loss com-
poses linearly. In phase two, the transaction outcome at
time 𝑢impacts at most log2( max(𝑡−𝑢,𝐿)
𝑇
) noisy p-sums,
thus leading to a logarithmic privacy decay. Combining
the two we conclude the overall privacy decay as follows.
Theorem 6. Protocol Î
LM∗mounted with FTimer is
(𝛼,𝜖)-private with privacy decay
𝜔(𝑡−𝑢) ≤
(
⌊𝑡−𝑢
𝐿⌋+log2( 𝐿
𝑇),
if (𝑡−𝑢) > 𝐿
log2( 𝑡−𝑢
𝑇),
otherwise
(3)
Proof. Please refer to Appendix B.6.
□
6.3
Analysis of the Stake Distortion
Resilience to SIA attacks. We first analyze how SIA
errors change when stake distortion is employed. Theo-
rem 2 implies that in standard protocols where no stake
distortion is present, the SIA error can be made arbitrarily
small as long as the attacker can flip the stake-based coins
unlimited times over a long period of time (this allows the
attackers to set 𝜃and 𝜏arbitrarily small). When switch-
ing to distorted stake, SIA only finds the interval where
the distorted stake is located. At this point, the errors are
based on two factors, namely, the errors inherent in the
attack, and the errors due to the injected DP noises.
Theorem 7. Given protocol Î
LM with SIA error Err. Ex-
tending it to Î
LM∗with FTimer and FBin yields SIA errors in
Err +𝑂𝑝
  𝛼
𝜖
1, and Err +𝑂𝑝

𝛼
𝜖
√︁
log2( 𝐿
𝑇)

, respectively.
Theorem 7 is the direct application of Chernoff
bound [36] (complete proofs in Appendix B.7) to the
injected Laplace noises. Note that the SIA error bounds
now rely on both the attacker-selected parameters (𝜃and
𝜏) and the privacy parameters (𝛼and 𝜖), indicating that
one may not achieve arbitrary precision in stake infer-
ences with an unlimited number of simulated coin flips.
Safety analysis. It is possible that the adversary’s stake
after distortion, say ˜𝑓, is larger than the pre-distortion
value 𝑓. However, as long as there is a limited number
of parties (existing protocols typically bound this by im-
posing a minimum staking amount [17, 27], say 𝜐), the
1𝑂𝑝is the Big 𝑂in its probability notion [22]
1584    32nd USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

bounded variance property of Laplace noise [26] enables
the derivation of a slack, i.e. by Chernoff inequalities,
that bounds the stake increment ˜𝑓−𝑓with a high proba-
bility. By setting the target as ˜𝑓< 1
3, and with the derived
slack, one can obtain another threshold 𝜉such that as long
as 𝑓< 𝜉, then ˜𝑓< 1
3 with high probability, i.e., the safety
remains valid after stake distortion. We summarize the
safety bounds in Theorem 8 and show in Section 7 that
they are reasonable through a case study.
Theorem 8. Assuming 0 < 𝛽< 1, Γ = 1.74𝛼
𝜖𝑆
√︁𝑆
𝜐log 1
𝛽< 1,
and 𝑓= 1−𝛾
3
with Γ ≤𝛾< 1 (or 𝛾≥
√︁
log2( 𝐿
𝑇) × Γ), the
adversary’s stake after distortion, ˜𝑓, is less than 1
3 with a
probability of at least 1−𝛽under FTimer (or FBin).
Theorem 8 demonstrates that for a protocol, Î
LM, tol-
erating up to 1
3 malicious stake, employing stake dis-
tortion with FTimer and FBin results in a modified pro-
tocol, Î
LM∗, which tolerates up to 1
3−𝑂𝑝
  𝛼
𝜖𝑆
√︁𝑆
𝜐
, and
1
3−𝑂𝑝
  𝛼
𝜖𝑆
√︁𝑆
𝜐log2( 𝐿
𝑇) malicious controlled stake, re-
spectively (complete proofs in Appendix B.8). Moreover,
Theorem 8 highlights a safety-privacy trade-off, where
weaker privacy guarantees (small 𝜖or large 𝛼) result in
smaller 𝛾, allowing for greater malicious tolerance. This
offers practitioners the flexibility to balance safety and
privacy, opting to exchange some safety for enhanced
privacy, or vice versa.
Liveness analysis. Typically, the liveness guarantee of
PoS ledgers is directly tied with the honest majority as-
sumption (same as the safety guarantee) if no changes
are made to the networking layer. For instance, by [19,
Theorem 9] and [17, Theorem 4] the liveness is ensured
for PoS protocols as long as the honest parties control
more than a certain fraction of the total stake (i.e., > 2
3).
Note that our stake distortion does not alter the network
assumptions (i.e., a network of authenticated multicast
channels with bounded delayed [29]), and by Theorem 8,
the honest majority assumption still holds after stake dis-
tortions. Therefore, without loss of generality, in what
follows we focus on the safety analysis and assume that
once safety is preserved, liveness is also retained.
Impact on individual party. The noise introduced to
each party’s stake has a distinct effect on their odds of
winning the slot leader election. Given the uniform vari-
ance of injected noise, smaller stakeholders might face
evident stake distortion or changes in their winning odds
for a single election round. Conversely, for larger stake-
holders, the change in their winning odds might not be
as prominent. Nevertheless, as the added noises possess
zero means, for long-term execution, the expected num-
ber of election wins aligns with each party’s true stake.
6.4
Stake Distortion Protocol Design
Building blocks. We build the protocols in a hybrid world
where the following auxiliary functionalities are avail-
able: (i) There exists a hiding commitment scheme [51]
that given randomness 𝑟and message 𝑥, an algorithm
Com𝑟(𝑥) commits 𝑥to com𝑥with opening 𝑟; (ii) We
utilize pseudorandom functions [39], PRFk(𝑥) with in-
put 𝑥and the evaluation key k, for deriving DP noises
and rely on an unpredictable random oracle, Fro, to pro-
duce randomness. An instantiation of Fro is the random
beacon [11]; (iii) There exists a non-interactive zero-
knowledge functionality [39], F L
nizk, that allows proving
of statements in an NP language L; (iv) There is a “de-
termine stake” functionality, Fstk, allows parties to ac-
cess their stake, committed stakes, and stake commitment
opening at any time. Additionally, Fstk allows for query-
ing a list, 𝐿, containing: (a) all registered users with their
respective committed stake, and (b) each party’s noise
generation key. In practice, the aforementioned informa-
tion can be efficiently computed from the blockchain [29].
Timer protocol Î
timer. We provide the design of timer
protocol Î
timer that securely realizes FTimer. Initially, we
consider all parties agree on a global clock and each party
derives a pair of noise generation keys (npk,nsk) upon
joining the system. Such key pair is sampled by selecting
a random private key nsk and setting npk ←PRFnsk (0).
The parties manage nsk themselves, which remains un-
known to others, but npk is accessible to other parties (i.e.,
through Fstk). Parties can join at any time, while stake
distortion occurs every 𝑇steps, thus we restrict each new
party to wait until the next distortion schedule to acquire
the first distorted stake before it can participate in the
ledger maintenance. Protocol 6.2 shows details from the
viewpoint of party 𝑃with identifier pid.
Protocol 6.2: Timer protocol Î
Timer
Upon receiving DISTORT from pid
1: Obtain current time 𝑗from the global clock
2: if 𝑗mod 𝑇== 0 then (𝑠𝑗,com𝑠𝑗,𝑟) ←Fstk
3:
(ra,rb) ←Fro( 𝑗), (𝑧0,𝑧1) ←PRFnsk (ra,rb)
4:
˜𝑠𝑗←𝑠𝑗+ 𝛼
𝜖(ln(𝑧0) −ln(𝑧1))
5:
Sample ˜𝑟and com˜𝑠𝑗←Com˜𝑟(˜𝑠𝑗)
6:
Get proof: 𝜋𝑗←F Ltimer
nizk
(prove,x,w)
7:
return ˜𝑠𝑗broadcast (pid,com˜𝑠𝑗,𝜋𝑗)
8: else ˜𝑠𝑗= ˜𝑠𝑗−1 return ˜𝑠𝑗
Upon receiving (GET COMM,pid)
9: Get (com˜𝑠𝑗,𝜋𝑗) for pid from the network.
10: if accept ←F Ltimer
nizk
(verify,𝜋𝑗) then
11:
Record com˜𝑠𝑗for pid
In order to distort the stake, Î
Timer first acquires nec-
essary information from Fstk (or from the blockchain)
and obtains the current public randomness from Fro.
The protocol then evaluates a PRF to derive private ran-
dom seeds2, 𝑧0,𝑧1, which are subsequently converted into
2We treat random seeds as fixed-point values in (0, 1).
USENIX Association
32nd USENIX Security Symposium    1585

an instance of Laplace noise drawn from Lap( 𝛼
𝜖) [50].
Given that nsk remains concealed from other parties, no
entity can gain knowledge about the derived DP noise.
Furthermore, provided the output of Fro is unpredictable,
the adversary is unable to adaptively select nsk to max-
imize the derived DP noise. Lastly, Î
Timer returns the
distorted stake to party 𝑃and broadcasts a hiding com-
mitment to the distorted stake, accompanied by a zero-
knowledge proof demonstrating that the committed stake
has been accurately distorted to all other parties. Next,
we define the statements by their corresponding NP lan-
guages: A tuple (x,w) ∈Ltimer if all the following holds:
• Instance: x = (𝜖,𝛼,npk,com𝑠𝑗,com˜𝑠𝑗,ra,rb)
• Witness: w = (𝑠𝑗, ˜𝑠𝑗,nsk,𝑧0,𝑧1,𝑟, ˜𝑟)
• Correct noise generation key: PRFnsk (0) = npk
• Correct randomness: PRFnsk (ra,rb) = (𝑧0,𝑧1)
• Correct stake distortion: ˜𝑠𝑗= 𝑠𝑗+ 𝛼
𝜖(ln(𝑧0) −ln(𝑧1))
• ∃𝑟, ˜𝑟s.t. com𝑠𝑗= Com𝑟(𝑠𝑗) and com˜𝑠𝑗= Com˜𝑟(˜𝑠𝑗)
For any other times between two distortion schedules,
the protocol simply reuses the distorted stake from the
last distortion round. Furthermore, when a party receives
a broadcast stake commitment from others, the protocol
interacts with F L
nizk to verify the validity of 𝜋, accepting
the commitment only if 𝜋is deemed valid.
Binary protocol Î
Bin. To implement Î
Bin that securely
realizes FBin, we utilize the same strategy as Î
Timer to
obtain randomness and transform DP noises. The tricky
part is dealing with the DP interval tree and deriving noisy
p-sums. In our design, we use the binary representation
of time to implicitly track the tree structure [16], which
simplifies the NP statements for generating proofs. The
details are provided in Protocol 6.3.
Phase one distortion in our design follows the same im-
plementation as Î
Timer, except the noisy stake is cached
in tx∗. In phase two, the protocol derives a new noisy
p-sum every 𝑇time steps based on the current time’s bi-
nary representation (6.3:5-11). Î
Bin then aggregates a
subset of previously computed (cached) noisy p-sums to
determine the noisy stake (6.3:12). Note that, Î
Timer can
safely recycle a subset of ”old” p-sums (6.3:10), requir-
ing it to track at most log( 𝐿
𝑇) noisy p-sums. Similarly,
Î
Bin generates proof for validating the stake distortion
process, with NP statements defined as follows: A tuple
(x,w) ∈Lbin if all the following holds:
• x = (𝜖,𝛼,npk,ra,rb,com𝑠𝑗,com𝑠𝑗−𝑇,com˜𝑠𝑗,comtx,com ˜tx)
• w = (𝑠𝑗,𝑠𝑗−𝑇, ˜𝑠𝑗,tx, ˜tx,nsk,𝑧0,𝑧1,𝑟, ˜𝑟,−→𝑟)
• PRFnsk (0) = npk and PRFnsk (ra,rb) = (𝑧0,𝑧1)
• Correct new p-sum: 𝑡𝑥[ℓ] = Íℓ
𝑘=0 tx[𝑘] + 𝑠𝑗−𝑠𝑗−𝑇
• Noisy p-sum: ˜𝑡𝑥[ℓ] ←tx[ℓ] + 𝛼
𝜖(ln(𝑧0) −ln(𝑧1))
• Correct noisy stake: ˜𝑠𝑗←tx∗+Í
𝑘:bin𝑘(𝑡)=1 ˜tx[𝑘]
• ∃opening 𝑟, ˜𝑟s.t. opens com𝑠𝑗,com˜𝑠𝑗to 𝑠𝑗, ˜𝑠𝑗.
• ∀𝑘(∃𝑟𝑘, ˜𝑟𝑘s.t. opens comtx𝑘,com ˜tx𝑘to tx[𝑘], ˜tx[𝑘])
Protocol 6.3: Binary protocol Î
Bin
//vectors tx, and ˜tx are initiated as −→0 .
Upon receiving DISTORT from pid
1: Obtain current time 𝑗from the global clock.
2: if 𝑗mod 𝐿= 0 then
3:
Follow Î
Timer steps 2-10, and cache ˜𝑠𝑗as tx∗
4: if 𝑡mod 𝑇= 0, where 𝑡←𝑗mod 𝐿then
5:
(𝑠𝑗,com𝑠𝑗,𝑟), (𝑠𝑗−𝑇,com𝑠𝑗−𝑇,𝑟′) ←Fstk
6:
(ra,rb) ←Fro( 𝑗), (𝑧0,𝑧1) ←PRFnsk (ra,rb)
7:
Express in binary form: 𝑡= Í
𝑘2𝑘· bin𝑘(𝑡)
8:
ℓ←min{𝑘: bin𝑘(𝑡) ≠0}
9:
tx[ℓ] ←Í
𝑘<ℓtx[𝑘] +  𝑠𝑗−𝑠𝑗−𝑇

10:
for 𝑘< ℓoverride ˜tx[𝑘] = tx[𝑘] = 0
11:
˜tx[ℓ] = tx[ℓ] + 𝛼
𝜖(ln(𝑧0) −ln(𝑧1))
12:
˜𝑠𝑗←tx∗+Í
𝑘:bin𝑘(𝑡)=1 ˜tx[𝑘];
13:
Sample ˜𝑟and com˜𝑠𝑗←Com˜𝑟(˜𝑠𝑗)
14:
Sample 𝑟ℓand comtx𝑘←Com𝑟ℓ(tx[ℓ])
15:
Sample ˜𝑟ℓand com ˜txℓ←Com˜𝑟ℓ( ˜tx[ℓ])
16:
Get proof: 𝜋𝑗←F Lbin
nizk (prove,x,w)
17:
return ˜𝑠𝑗
18:
broadcast (pid,com˜𝑠𝑗,comtxℓ,com ˜txℓ,𝜋𝑗)
19: else ˜𝑠𝑗= ˜𝑠𝑗−1 return ˜𝑠𝑗
Upon receiving (GET COMM,pid)
20: Get com˜𝑠𝑗,comtxℓ,com ˜txℓ,𝜋𝑗for pid
21: Override ∀𝑘<ℓcomtx𝑘= com ˜tx𝑘= Com(0) for pid
22: if accept ←F Lbin
nizk (verify,𝜋𝑗) then
23:
Record com˜𝑠𝑗,comtx0:ℓ, and com ˜tx0:ℓfor pid
Observe that Î
Bin requires verifying nodes to cache ad-
ditional objects per party, i.e., the commitments to tx, ˜𝑡𝑥.
However, one needs to keep track of at most log( 𝐿
𝑇) p-
sums(commitments). Hence, the storage blowup in con-
trast to Î
Timer is bounded by 𝑂(log( 𝐿
𝑇)).
Theorem 9. Î
Timer and Î
Bin UC emulates [15] FTimer,
and FBin, respectively, in the (Fstk,Fro,F L
nizk)-hybrid
world with the presence of a p.p.t. adversary.
Proof. Please refer to the Appendix A
□
7
Case Study with Real-World System
In this section, we perform case studies on our stake
distortion protocols using a real-world PoS blockchain,
Ethereum 2.0 [27], and examine its impact on original
guarantees. We explore the practicality of stake distortion
by addressing several key questions.
• Q1. Will the ledger still provide safety guarantees after
adopting stake distortion? What privacy level can be
achieved given certain safety requirements?
• Q2. How does FTimer compare to FBin in privacy decay?
How one can benefit from a smoother decay?
• Q3. Does stake distortion mitigate the SIA risks?
1586    32nd USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

Total stake, 𝑆
13,488,174 Eth
Minimum stake, 𝜐
32 Eth
Slot time (delay)
12 seconds
Distortion interval, 𝑇
4 days
FBin Phase 1 interval, 𝐿
45×𝑇
Table 1: Ethereum 2.0 parameters setup
Setup. We implement simulations based on Ethereum
2.0’s phase 0 specification [27] and utilize key statis-
tics from the beacon chain [28]. With an average daily
transaction volume per unique address below 0.25, it’s
reasonable to assume that Ethereum 2.0 parties’ stakes
remain stable over a 4-day period. Consequently, we set
the distortion schedule 𝑇= 4 days and FBin’s phase 1 in-
terval 𝐿= 45𝑇(6 months). Table 1 summarizes the setup.
7.1
Safety Guarantee
We plot safety curves in Figure 4 based on Theorem 8
with 𝛿= 10−9 (safety failure probability),3 and assume
˜𝑓< 1
3 as the general safety requirement. Given 𝛼(resp.
𝜖), the additive bound for distinguishing two stake values,
the curves imply the minimum privacy loss, 𝜖(resp. the
maximum 𝛼), achievable at certain safety levels. For each
mechanism, we plot three curves, which correspond 20%,
25%, and 30% of malicious tolerance, respectively.
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
Privacy parameter ε
100
1K
Parameter α
α = 300
ε = 0.5
α = 175
0.21
0.34
0.85
f = 20%
f = 25%
f = 30%
(a) Timer, FTimer
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
Privacy parameter ε
100
1K
Parameter α
ε = 0.5
α = 300
α = 86
0.43
0.69
1.73
f = 20%
f = 25%
f = 30%
(b) Binary, FBin
Figure 3: Safety upper bounds
Observation-1. Both mechanisms provide reasonable
stake privacy while retaining safety at the same time.
In general, even with a relatively small 𝜖and a large
malicious threshold, i.e., 𝜖= 0.5 4, and 𝑓= 30%, 𝛼can
be set up to 175 and 86, respectively, for FTimer and FBin.
By the latest blockchain data [20], only less than 0.05%
of accounts have more than 80 Eth, which suggests that
privacy is ensured for at least 99.95% of total users.
Observation-2. There is a trade-off between privacy
and safety guarantees. Apparently, one can achieve a
larger 𝛼or a smaller privacy loss when considering a rel-
atively weaker safety (smaller malicious tolerance). This
suggests a trade-off between privacy and safety which
provide flexibility for practitioners to better configure the
protocols.
For example, if there is a slashing mecha-
nism [2] to help reduce the malicious fraction, one may
choose to gain better privacy by trading off some safety.
3Similar to a practical bound chosen by Algorand [17]
4In comparison with Google community mobility report which uses
𝜖= 2.4 per user per day, 𝜖= 0.5 is quite small.
MR
14d
30d
90d
180d
1y
Privacy decay
100
101
Privacy loss ε
Timer
Binary
(a) Privacy loss vs. Time
MR
14d
30d
90d
180d
1y
Privacy decay
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Malicious tolerance
Timer
Binary
(b) Safety vs. privacy decay
Figure 4: Safety upper bounds
Given that the two mechanisms have different privacy
decay, to better study them, we compare FTimer and FBin
under different privacy decay goals, i.e., privacy loss for
the most recent (MR) time, the last 14, 30, 90, 180 and
365 days. First, we bound the malicious tolerance, i.e.
20%, and set 𝛼= 200 then plot their privacy loss over
time in Figure 4a. Next, we compare them in a different
angle in Figure 4b, where we keep the configurations of
FTimer unchanged but modify FBin to enforce it reaches
the same privacy loss as FTimer under the different privacy
decay goals. We then compare the malicious tolerance
(safety) ensured by two mechanisms.
Observation-3. For short-term privacy, FTimer outper-
forms FBin, while the result is reversed when focusing
on long-term privacy. As shown in Figure 4a, FTimer
exhibits lower short-term privacy loss than FBin when
fixing the safety level. This occurs since FTimer adds a
single instance of DP noise, leading to smaller adver-
sary stake growth and enabling the configuration under
a smaller 𝜖. However, due to logarithmic privacy de-
cay, FBin offers better long-term privacy loss even with a
larger 𝜖. Figure 4b shows that if one is more concerned
about long-term privacy, it is better to employ FBin as it
ensures a larger malicious tolerance, which up to 1.63×
that of FTimer. Overall, this observation provides prac-
titioners with a sense of how they would benefit from a
stake distortion that has a smoother privacy decay.
7.2
Safety Simulation
To further validate the safety bounds we conduct stake
distortion simulations. Specifically, we simulate a set of
stakeholders and assume the attacker corrupts different
fractions of them. Subsequently, we configure 𝜖, 𝛼as
per Theorem 8 and run stake distortion over each party.
Finally, we investigate whether the corrupted stake af-
ter distortion, ˜𝑓, exceeds 1/3. Additionally, to max out
the attacker’s stake increment, we consider each individ-
ual stakeholder to hold a minimum staking, and thus the
number of parties is maxed out as 𝑛= 𝑆
𝜐. Table 2 sum-
marizes the result over 10K repeated runs.
Observation-4. With proper setups as per the safety
bounds, ˆ𝑓< 1
3 with overwhelming probability.
Ac-
cording to Table 2, the corrupted stake, ˜𝑓, after distor-
tion for all testing groups does not exceed 0.3314, which
USENIX Association
32nd USENIX Security Symposium    1587

Timer FTimer
Binary FBin
𝑓(%)
(𝜖, 𝛼)
max ˜𝑓
(𝜖,𝛼)
max ˜𝑓
10%
(0.5, 1214)
0.33082
(0.5, 552)
0.33078
15%
(0.5, 963)
0.32952
(0.5, 475)
0.32869
20%
(0.5, 701)
0.33055
(0.5, 346)
0.33132
25%
(0.5, 438)
0.32858
(0.5, 216)
0.32336
30%
(0.5, 175)
0.32309
(0.5, 86)
0.32626
Table 2: Simulation of stake distortion
is consistent with the primary safety requirement, i.e.,
˜𝑓< 1/3. Consider that stake distortions occur every 4
days, thus the 10K repeated runs can actually simulate a
109-year operation of the blockchain coupled with stake
distortion. The simulation implies in those 109 years of
operation, there has not been even one violation of the
safety requirement. In fact, as 𝛽is set to 10−9, the proba-
bility of even one violation happens should smaller than
10−4 (taking union bound). In general, we conclude that
the simulations validate our safety upper bounds.
7.3
Resilience to SIA
We investigate whether stake distortion helps mitigate
SIA risk, which is achieved by initiating RdBin on sim-
ulated Ethereum 2.0’s ledger maintenance protocol with
and without stake distortion, then compare their relative
inference errors. Moreover, we are also interested in the
SIA resistance of FTimer and FBin under different safety
requirements. To address these, we simulate the protocol
for 1.29×106 steps (6 months in the real world) and issue
one RdBin attack every 4 days. By default, we configure
RdBin with 𝜃= 𝜐, 𝜏= 0.01, and run the attack against
a target with random stake 𝑓𝑣∈(0, 𝑓). When simulat-
ing Ethereum 2.0 with stake distortion, we assume the
protocol tolerates different malicious fractions, i.e., from
10% to 30%, configure related parameters accordingly,
and run attacks against each group independently. We
report the relative inference errors of RdBin in Figure 5.
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
Malicious tolerance %
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Relative error
1×
7.6×
6.2×
4.5×
3.1×
2.2×
7.8×
5.8×
4.1×
3.5×
2×
Non-private
Timer
Binary
Figure 5: Privacy loss vs. Time
Observation-5. Both FTimer and FBin mitigate SIA risk,
and the simulation result suggests a trade-off between
safety guarantees and SIA resistance. According to
Figure 5, when stake distortion is employed, the relative
SIA inference error is at least twice that of the standard
protocol and can reach up to 7.8×. This further implies
the practicability of stake distortion in mitigating SIA
risks. Moreover, the relative error of both FTimer and FBin
decreases when the malicious tolerance increases, i.e., the
Timer
Binary
Setup
Setup time
19.64 s
20.63 s
Proving key size
38 Mb
38 Mb
Verification key size
4 Kb
4 Kb
Prove
Proof time
7.07 s
7.32 s
Proof size
4 Kb
4 Kb
Verify
Verification time
11 ms
10ms
Other
Time
1.33 s
1.89 s
Storage
22.72 Mb
62.21 Mb
Table 3: Evaluation result for the prototype protocol
weaker the safety demanded, the stronger the resistance
to SIA obtained, and vice versa.
7.4
Key Takeaways
The first two observations address Q1, where we learn
that our mechanisms provide reasonable privacy while
preserving safety (liveness). Moreover, we are aware of a
privacy-safety tradeoff in our mechanisms. Observation
3 compares the two mechanisms and addresses Q2, from
which we learn that one should choose FTimer when fo-
cusing on short-term privacy goals, while FBin is a better
option for long-term goals. The safety simulations (Sec-
tion 7.2) validate our theoretical bounds while the SIA
experiments (Section 7.3) address Q3 and demonstrate
our mechanisms indeed mitigate SIA risks.
8
Performance Evaluation
Implementation and configuration.
We utilize the
same method as [51] to implement PRF and Com us-
ing SHA256 compression functions. Fractional numbers
are stored as 32-bit fixed-point values with a scaling factor
of 216, and we consider the public randomness as 16-bit
unsigned fixed-point values with a scaling factor of 216,
ensuring the randomness is spread across (0,1). We use
the Remez algorithm [53] to create approximated polyno-
mials for the ln(𝑥) circuit. Alternative techniques [48, 52]
and engineering optimizations exist for implementing the
ln(𝑥) circuit, potentially improving approximation accu-
racy or computational efficiency. Developing optimized
protocols is not the primary focus of this work, but may be
of independent interest. Nevertheless, even without these
optimizations, our evaluations still show a reasonable
overhead associated with the stake distortion protocols.
To implement the NIZK proof, we utilize zk-SNARK li-
brary Zokrates-0.8.5 (Rust implementation) [1] under the
proving scheme Groth16 [34]. In addition, we assume
the existence of the parties’ stake commitments and their
integrity have been verified, as in practice such commit-
ments can be effectively obtained and verified [51] from
the blockchain.
The protocols are evaluated over ma-
chines with 2.6GHz CPU and 16Gb RAM.
Evaluation result. Table 3 summarizes the evaluation
results, apparently, the performance overhead is domi-
nated by the costs associated with the NIZK proof. Nev-
ertheless, the adoption of our protocol may not impose
1588    32nd USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

an excessive performance overhead, for example, Zcash
requires more than 120 seconds of proof time (without
optimization) per block [51]. Thus, adopting our proto-
cols only increase the proof overhead by at most 5.8%.
Furthermore, since stake distortion doesn’t transpire at
every time step, the amortized overhead may be reduced.
For example, assuming stake distortion occurs every 4
days, the amortized overhead in the Zcash case could be
less than 0.002%. Note that stake distortion proofs can
be combined with other ledger-specified proofs, enabling
the verifier to validate all SNARK arguments via a single
verification. For the storage overhead, both protocols re-
quire parties to cache additional data objects, i.e., noisy
stake, commitments, etc. However, the storage volume
does not exceed 63 Mb, which represents a slight over-
head compared to storing the full blockchain data (i.e.,
895 Gb for Ethereum [28]).
9
Discussion
Mitigating privacy decay. One can create a stake distor-
tion strategy without cumulative privacy loss over time.
For example, for every 𝑇time steps, the party generates a
noisy p-sum representing all transaction outcomes from
the last𝑇steps, and the noisy stake is derived by summing
up all released noisy p-sums. This approach guarantees
that distortion takes place across distinct transactions,
and the extraction of the noisy stake is simply a post-
processing step involving noisy p-sums. As per parallel
composition and post-processing theorems [26] of DP, the
total privacy loss is bounded by 𝜖. Although privacy loss
doesn’t accumulate, injected noise variance does, lead-
ing to reduced safety guarantees over time, i.e., the upper
bound of adversarial stake increment increases. Another
alternative is adopting the relaxed (𝜖,𝛿)-DP guarantee,
allowing unbounded privacy loss with a small failure
probability 𝛿. This allows injecting Gaussian noises (of-
fer tighter composition bounds than Laplace noises) that
optimize privacy decay.
Permissionless clock synchronization. This work con-
siders the globally synchronized setting in line with
SOTA designs [40, 19, 39] such that all parties can re-
trieve time from a global clock (functionality). We say
that one can also adopt permissionless clock synchroniza-
tion protocols [4], i.e. if some (honest) party believes the
global time as 𝑗, all parties believe it as 𝑗± 𝛿𝑐, with a
small 𝛿𝑐, if a global clock is not accessible. Although,
there might be small chances for a party that fails the slot
leader election due to the use of outdated noisy stake, i.e.
within 𝛿𝑐right after a (globally defined) distortion sched-
ule. Since 𝛿𝑐is typically small [4] and the stake distortion
interval 𝑇is relatively large, thus for the majority of time
slots, all parties agree on the most recent distorted stake.
While integrating our design with permissionless clock
synchronization is not this paper’s focus, it is considered
an important future enhancement.
10
Related Works
Proof-of-Stake private ledgers. The first PoS design
appears in [42]. Followed by this, there has been a series
of efforts [9, 17, 10, 40, 19, 3, 31, 27, 58, 14, 30, 60]
on formulating PoS models as well as providing proto-
cols with provable security guarantees. Recently, several
works have been proposed to address the stake and trans-
action privacy of PoS ledgers, which include Ouroborous
Crypsinous [39], Ganesh et al. [29], and Baldimtsi et
al. [6]. However, the stake privacy is typically ensured
at the cost of assuming complete anonymity of parties’
identity [29, 39]. Unfortunately, [43] demonstrates the
existence of a tension between liveness and anonymity.
In this work, we provide the first-of-its-kind solution that
provides provable stake privacy for PoS private ledgers
in a manner that does not assume anonymity.
Stake inference attacks. Both [39] and [29] state that the
parties’ stake information may be revealed with the execu-
tion of the PoS protocols, no specific attacks for inferring
stake have been proposed until the publication of [43].
However, their proposed attack considers only determin-
istic protocols and requires linear time complexity. In
this work, we provide practical stake inference attack that
is proven to be valid against randomized protocols with
probabilistic liveness. Moreover, our attack only yields
sublinear time complexity.
Differential privacy.
Differential privacy (DP) intro-
duced by Dwork et.al. [26] is currently the “de-facto”
standard for achieving data privacy. Since 2010, cou-
ple of efforts have been proposed to address DP under
dynamic setting [25, 24, 16, 38, 55, 56]. Among these
works, [12, 38] employs a relaxed privacy with decay
model to ensure better utility, which is similar to our for-
mulation. Nevertheless, as far as we know, we are the
first to incorporate DP with private PoS blockchains.
11
Conclusion
In this paper, we present the first practical stake inference
attack against randomized PoS protocols. The existence
of such an attack further implies the inadequacy of SOTA
PoS designs in achieving stake and transaction privacy.
To formulate a rigorous privacy definition, we incorporate
DP with the standard UC definition of private ledgers.
Guided by the derived privacy model, we design DP stake
distortion protocols that assist existing PoS protocols in
resolving stake and transaction privacy.
Acknowledgments
This paper is supported in part by NSF Awards 2016393
and 2237814.
USENIX Association
32nd USENIX Security Symposium    1589

References
[1] A toolbox for zksnarks on ethereum. https://github.com/
Zokrates/ZoKrates, 2022.
[2] Aumasson, J.-P., Kolegov, D., and Stathopoulou, E.
Se-
curity review of ethereum beacon clients.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2109.11677 (2021).
[3] Badertscher, C., Gaˇzi, P., Kiayias, A., Russell, A., and Zikas,
V. Ouroboros genesis: Composable proof-of-stake blockchains
with dynamic availability.
In Proceedings of the 2018 ACM
SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security
(2018), pp. 913–930.
[4] Badertscher, C., Gazi, P., Kiayias, A., Russell, A., and Zikas,
V. Ouroboros chronos: Permissionless clock synchronization via
proof-of-stake. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2019).
[5] Badertscher, C., Maurer, U., Tschudi, D., and Zikas, V. Bit-
coin as a transaction ledger: A composable treatment. In Annual
international cryptology conference (2017), Springer, pp. 324–
356.
[6] Baldimtsi, F., Madathil, V., Scafuro, A., and Zhou, L. Anony-
mous lottery in the proof-of-stake setting. In 2020 IEEE 33rd
Computer Security Foundations Symposium (CSF) (2020), IEEE,
pp. 318–333.
[7] Bellare, M. Lectures on nizks: A concrete security treatment.
[8] Bentov, I., Gabizon, A., and Mizrahi, A. Cryptocurrencies
without proof of work. In International conference on financial
cryptography and data security (2016), Springer, pp. 142–157.
[9] Bentov, I., Lee, C., Mizrahi, A., and Rosenfeld, M. Proof of
activity: Extending bitcoin’s proof of work via proof of stake [ex-
tended abstract] y. ACM SIGMETRICS Performance Evaluation
Review 42, 3 (2014), 34–37.
[10] Bentov, I., Pass, R., and Shi, E. Snow white: Provably secure
proofs of stake. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch. 2016, 919 (2016).
[11] Bhat, A., Kate, A., Nayak, K., and Shrestha, N. Optrand: Op-
timistically responsive distributed random beacons. Cryptology
ePrint Archive (2022).
[12] Bolot, J., Fawaz, N., Muthukrishnan, S., Nikolov, A., and
Taft, N. Private decayed predicate sums on streams. In Proceed-
ings of the 16th International Conference on Database Theory
(2013), pp. 284–295.
[13] Bowe, S., Chiesa, A., Green, M., Miers, I., Mishra, P., and
Wu, H. Z: Enabling decentralized private computation. In 2020
IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (2019), pp. 947–964.
[14] Buchman, E. Tendermint: Byzantine fault tolerance in the age of
blockchains. PhD thesis, University of Guelph, 2016.
[15] Canetti, R. Universally composable security: A new paradigm
for cryptographic protocols. In Proceedings 42nd IEEE Sympo-
sium on Foundations of Computer Science (2001), IEEE.
[16] Chan, H., Shi, E., Song, D., et al. Private and continual re-
lease of statistics.
In International Colloquium on Automata,
Languages, and Programming (2010), Springer, pp. 405–417.
[17] Chen,
J.,
and Micali,
S.
Algorand.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1607.01341 (2016).
[18] Croman, K., Decker, C., Eyal, I., Gencer, A. E., Juels, A.,
Kosba, A., Miller, A., Saxena, P., Shi, E., G¨un Sirer, E.,
et al. On scaling decentralized blockchains. In International
conference on financial cryptography and data security (2016),
Springer, pp. 106–125.
[19] David, B., Gaˇzi, P., Kiayias, A., and Russell, A. Ouroboros
praos: An adaptively-secure, semi-synchronous proof-of-stake
blockchain. In Annual Conference on the Theory and Applications
of Cryptographic Techniques (2018), Springer, pp. 66–98.
[20] Day, A., Medvedev, E., Nirmal, A., and Price, W. Introducing
six new cryptocurrencies in bigquery public datasets—and how
to analyze them. Google Cloud (2021).
[21] Delgado-Segura, S., Bakshi, S., P´erez-Sol`a, C., Litton, J.,
Pachulski, A., Miller, A., and Bhattacharjee, B. Txprobe:
Discovering bitcoin’s network topology using orphan transac-
tions. In International Conference on Financial Cryptography
and Data Security (2019), Springer, pp. 550–566.
[22] Dodge, Y., and Cox, D. The Oxford dictionary of statistical
terms. Oxford University Press, USA, 2003.
[23] Douceur, J. R. The sybil attack. In International workshop on
peer-to-peer systems (2002), Springer, pp. 251–260.
[24] Dwork, C. Differential privacy in new settings. In Proceed-
ings of the twenty-first annual ACM-SIAM symposium on Discrete
Algorithms (2010), SIAM, pp. 174–183.
[25] Dwork, C., Naor, M., Pitassi, T., and Rothblum, G. N. Differ-
ential privacy under continual observation. In Proceedings of the
forty-second ACM symposium on Theory of computing (2010),
pp. 715–724.
[26] Dwork, C., Roth, A., et al. The algorithmic foundations of
differential privacy. Found. Trends Theor. Comput. Sci. 9, 3-4
(2014), 211–407.
[27] Etherum.
Etherum 2.0 phse 0 becaon chain.
https:
//github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/dev/
specs/phase0/beacon-chain.md, 2021.
[28] Ethscan. Ethscan Statistics. https://ethscan.org/, 2022.
[29] Ganesh, C., Orlandi, C., and Tschudi, D. Proof-of-stake pro-
tocols for privacy-aware blockchains. In Annual International
Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic
Techniques (2019), Springer, pp. 690–719.
[30] Gao, Y., and Nobuhara, H. A proof of stake sharding pro-
tocol for scalable blockchains. Proceedings of the Asia-Pacific
Advanced Network 44, 1 (2017), 13–16.
[31] Gaˇzi, P., Kiayias, A., and Zindros, D. Proof-of-stake sidechains.
In 2019 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) (2019),
IEEE, pp. 139–156.
[32] Grinstead, C. M., and Snell, J. L. Introduction to probability.
American Mathematical Soc., 1997.
[33] Groth, J. Simulation-sound nizk proofs for a practical language
and constant size group signatures. In International Conference
on the Theory and Application of Cryptology and Information
Security (2006), Springer, pp. 444–459.
[34] Groth, J.
On the size of pairing-based non-interactive argu-
ments. In Advances in Cryptology–EUROCRYPT 2016: 35th
Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applications
of Cryptographic Techniques, Vienna, Austria, May 8-12, 2016,
Proceedings, Part II 35 (2016), Springer, pp. 305–326.
[35] Haney, S., Machanavajjhala, A., Abowd, J. M., Graham, M.,
Kutzbach, M., and Vilhuber, L. Utility cost of formal privacy
for releasing national employer-employee statistics. In Proceed-
ings of the 2017 ACM International Conference on Management
of Data (2017), pp. 1339–1354.
[36] Hellman, M., and Raviv, J. Probability of error, equivocation,
and the chernoff bound. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
16, 4 (1970), 368–372.
[37] Karp, R. M., and Kleinberg, R. Noisy binary search and its
applications. In Proceedings of the eighteenth annual ACM-SIAM
symposium on Discrete algorithms (2007), pp. 881–890.
[38] Kellaris, G., Papadopoulos, S., Xiao, X., and Papadias, D.
Differentially private event sequences over infinite streams. Pro-
ceedings of the VLDB Endowment 7, 12 (2014), 1155–1166.
1590    32nd USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

[39] Kerber, T., Kiayias, A., Kohlweiss, M., and Zikas, V.
Ouroboros crypsinous: Privacy-preserving proof-of-stake.
In
2019 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) (2019),
IEEE, pp. 157–174.
[40] Kiayias, A., Russell, A., David, B., and Oliynykov, R.
Ouroboros: A provably secure proof-of-stake blockchain pro-
tocol.
In Annual international cryptology conference (2017),
Springer, pp. 357–388.
[41] Kifer, D., and Machanavajjhala, A. Pufferfish: A frame-
work for mathematical privacy definitions. ACM Transactions on
Database Systems (TODS) 39, 1 (2014), 1–36.
[42] King, S., and Nadal, S. Ppcoin: Peer-to-peer crypto-currency
with proof-of-stake. self-published paper, August 19, 1 (2012).
[43] Kohlweiss, M., Madathil, V., Nayak, K., and Scafuro, A. On
the anonymity guarantees of anonymous proof-of-stake protocols.
In 2021 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) (2021),
IEEE, pp. 1818–1833.
[44] Krafft, O., and Schmitz, N. A note on hoeffding’s inequality.
Journal of the American Statistical Association 64, 327 (1969),
907–912.
[45] Mazieres, D.
The stellar consensus: A federated model for
internet-level consensus. Stellar Development Foundation (2015).
[46] Miller, A., Litton, J., Pachulski, A., Gupta, N., Levin, D.,
Spring, N., and Bhattacharjee, B. Discovering bitcoin’s public
topology and influential nodes. et al (2015).
[47] Nakamoto, S., and Bitcoin, A. A peer-to-peer electronic cash
system. Bitcoin.–URL: https://bitcoin. org/bitcoin. pdf 4 (2008).
[48] Narayan, A., Feldman, A., Papadimitriou, A., and Hae-
berlen, A. Verifiable differential privacy. In Proceedings of
the European Conference on Computer Systems (2015), pp. 1–14.
[49] Noether, S., Mackenzie, A., et al. Ring confidential transac-
tions. Ledger 1 (2016), 1–18.
[50] Ross, S. M. Intro. to probability models. Academic press, 2014.
[51] Sasson, E. B., Chiesa, A., Garman, C., Green, M., Miers, I.,
Tromer, E., and Virza, M. Zerocash: Decentralized anonymous
payments from bitcoin. In 2014 IEEE symposium on security and
privacy (2014), IEEE, pp. 459–474.
[52] Shirali, S. A. The bhaskara-aryabhata approximation to the sine
function. Mathematics Magazine 84, 2 (2011), 98–107.
[53] Tawfik, S. A. Minimax approximation and remez algorithm.
[54] Vujicic, D., Jagodic, D., and Randic, S.
Blockchain tech-
nology, bitcoin, and ethereum: A brief overview. In 2018 17th
international symposium infoteh-jahorina (2018), IEEE, pp. 1–6.
[55] Wang, C., Bater, J., Nayak, K., and Machanavajjhala, A.
Dp-sync: Hiding update patterns in secure outsourced databases
with differential privacy. In Proceedings of the 2021 International
Conference on Management of Data (2021), pp. 1892–1905.
[56] Wang, C., Bater, J., Nayak, K., and Machanavajjhala,
A.
Incshrink: Architecting efficient outsourced databases us-
ing incremental mpc and differential privacy.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2203.05084 (2022).
[57] Wang, C., Pujo, D., Nayak, K., and Machanavajjhala, A. Pri-
vate proof-of-stake blockchains using differentially-private stake
distortion. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2023).
[58] Wood, G.
Polkadot: Vision for a heterogeneous multi-chain
framework. White Paper 21 (2016), 2327–4662.
[59] Xu, B., Luthra, D., Cole, Z., and Blakely, N.
Eos: An
architectural, performance, and economic analysis. Retrieved June
11 (2018), 2019.
[60] Zamfir, V. Casper the friendly ghost: A correct by construction
blockchain consensus protocol.
A
Security Proof
In this section, we present the primary security proof
(for Theorem 9) related to the stake distortion protocol
proposed in this work. To minimize redundancy, we focus
on the security proof for the Timer protocol. However, we
emphasize that using the same proof technique, one can
easily derive a proof for the Binary protocol. Interested
readers may refer to our full version[57] for more details.
First, we provide the formal functionality descriptions
(1.1) for the timer (FTimer) mechanism. In general, par-
ties can interact with FTimer with DISTORT to retrieve the
distorted stake at each time, or with GET COMM to ob-
tain distorted stake commitments for every other party.
Functionality 1.1: FTimer
For every time step 𝑗evaluate the following:
1: if 𝑗mod 𝑇= 0 then
2:
for party 𝑖= 1,2,.. do
3:
Determine the true stake 𝑠𝑖
𝑗owned by 𝑃𝑖
4:
˜𝑠𝑖
𝑗←𝑠𝑖
𝑗+Lap( 𝛼
𝜖)
5:
Commit ˜𝑠𝑖
𝑗to com˜𝑠𝑖
𝑗with 𝑟𝑖
𝑗
6:
Record ˜𝑠𝑖
𝑗, com˜𝑠𝑖
𝑗, and 𝑟𝑖
𝑗for 𝑃𝑖
7: else
8:
for party 𝑖= 1,2,.. do
9:
˜𝑠𝑖
𝑗←˜𝑠𝑖
𝑗−1, 𝑟𝑖
𝑗←𝑟𝑖
𝑗−1, com˜𝑠𝑖
𝑗←com˜𝑠𝑖
𝑗−1
10:
Record ˜𝑠𝑖
𝑗, com˜𝑠𝑖
𝑗, and 𝑟𝑖
𝑗for 𝑃𝑖
Upon receiving (DISTORT,sid) from 𝑃𝑖:
11: return ˜𝑠𝑖
𝑗, com˜𝑠𝑖
𝑗, and 𝑟𝑖
𝑗.
12: add com˜𝑠𝑖
𝑗to every registered party’s local cache.
Upon receiving (GET COMM,id,sid) from 𝑃𝑖:
13: return com˜𝑠𝑘
𝑗from 𝑃𝑖’s cache
Proof. (Theorem 9)We prove this theorem by construct-
ing a simulator Stimer, which corrupts the same set of
nodes as the real-world adversary A and interacts with
Fsd. This simulator can produce a transcript that is com-
putationally indistinguishable from the real-world proto-
col execution of Î
sd in the presence of A. We assume the
existence of a simulator that simulates the message broad-
cast channel (the network) as described in [29]. Conse-
quently, we will not delve into the details of simulating
message broadcasting in real-world execution. For more
information, readers may refer to [29].
To construct the simulator, we consider the existence of
a simulator, SLtimer
nizk , for non-interactive zero-knowledge
(NIZK) that proves statements in the NP language of
Ltimer. SLtimer
nizk
is able to simulate a proof using a trapdoor
(without requiring the witness) that is indistinguishable
from one an honest prover would provide with the wit-
ness [7, 33]. We refer to the proof generated by SLtimer
nizk
using the trapdoor as the simulated proof.
USENIX Association
32nd USENIX Security Symposium    1591

Let HYB0 represent the distribution of real-world pro-
tocol execution of Î
timer. We consider the world HYB1,
which is the same as the protocol execution, except for the
following: the noise generation keys and the DP noises
are obtained from the simulator Stimer. Specifically, Stimer
samples a random string, using it as the key to deriving the
private randomness. By the security of PRF the output
of (private randomness) PRFnsk (0) is computationally in-
distinguishable from PRFrd string(0). Furthermore, by the
fundamental laws of probability transformation, Laplace
or Gaussian random variables that are derived from the
actual and the simulated randomness are also indistin-
guishable. Hence, we say that the distributions of HYB0
and HYB1 are indistinguishable.
Next, we consider another world HYB2, which is iden-
tical to the world HYB1 except for replacing the calls
to Fstk with the interaction to Stimer.
The simulator
Stimer simulates the honest party’s stake commitment us-
ing Com𝑟(0), where 𝑟is a random opening, and returns
the honest party’s noise generation key with the simu-
lated one (as demonstrated in HYB1, the simulated npk
is indistinguishable from the actual key). Owing to the
equivocality property of commitment schemes [39], we
can conclude that the distributions of HYB1 are indistin-
guishable from those of HYB2.
Lastly, we consider the ideal world HYB3. The only
difference between HYB3 and HYB2 is that in HYB3, the
noisy stake commitments for honest parties are simulated
using (i) 0 stake as the true value; (ii) simulated DP noise
𝑧; (iii) a random opening to derive the commitment; and
(iv) a simulated NIZK proof generated by SLtimernizk.
Due to the equivocality property of commitments, we
know that the simulated noisy stake commitments for
honest parties are indistinguishable from the actual ones.
Furthermore, the simulation security of NIZKs (or zero-
knowledge property) ensures that the simulated proof by
SLtimernizk, generated without using a witness, is com-
putationally indistinguishable from the actual proof ob-
tained from F L
nizk. Consequently, we conclude that the
distribution of the ideal world HYB3 is indistinguishable
from that of HYB2 and, by extension, also indistinguish-
able from the real-world executions, HYB0.
□
B
Proof of Theorems
B.1
Proof of Theorem 1
Theorem 10. Given 𝛿∈(0,1), with probability at least
1−𝛿, 𝑝SC(...,𝛿) outputs correct comparisons.
Proof. We first prove that for each round, the probability
that Algorithm 1 outputs the wrong comparison between
the two biased coins 𝑞( 𝑓𝑣) and 𝑞( 𝑓cmp) is at most 𝛿𝑖.
Without loss of generality, we consider the case where the
algorithm outputs 𝑓𝑣> 𝑓cmp (𝑝0 > 𝑝1 and |𝑝0−𝑝1| > 2𝜏𝑖).
By Hoeffding’s Inequality [44] the failure probability that
Algorithm 1 outputs the wrong comparison satisfies
Pr [wrong cmp]
≤Pr [𝑞( 𝑓𝑣) < 𝑝0−𝜏𝑖] +Pr

𝑞( 𝑓cmp) > 𝑝1 + 𝜏𝑖

≤𝑒−2𝑒log( 1
𝛿𝑖) = 𝑒−2𝛿𝑖
(4)
By union bound, the overall failure probability is bounded
by Í+∞
𝑖
𝛿𝑖<
𝛿
𝑒−1 < 𝛿
□
Theorem 11. The expected running time of 𝑝SC is
bounded by 𝑂

log(1/𝛿)+log(1/max (𝜏,𝜏c))
max(𝜏,𝜏c)2

(sim) coin flips.
Proof. We prove the complexity of 𝑝SC by following
the same technique used by [37] for proving Lemma 3.2.
Without loss of generality, we consider 𝑞( 𝑓𝑣) > 𝑞( 𝑓cmp).
We start with the case of 𝜏𝑐> 𝜏, and let 𝑘= log( 1
𝜏𝑐), so for
any round ℓ> 𝑘we have 𝜏ℓ< 𝜏𝑐
2 . By Hoeffding’s Inequal-
ity [44] the probability such that 𝑝SC keeps running after
ℓ> 𝑘rounds is at most 𝛿·𝑒−( 1
2 𝑒2ℓ𝜏2
𝑐+ℓ). The running time
of round ℓ> 𝑘grows exponentially in ℓ, while the prob-
ability that Algorithm 1 to continue running after round
ℓ> 𝑘decreases faster than exponential in ℓ. Hence, the
expected running time is dominated by the running time
of round 𝑘, which is 𝑂

log(1/𝛿)+log(1/𝜏𝑐)
𝜏2𝑐

. Next, we con-
sider the case where 𝜏𝑐< 𝜏. With the same technique, one
can obtain that the expected running time is bounded by
the running time of 𝑘𝑡ℎround where 𝑘= log( 1
𝜏), which
is 𝑂

log(1/𝛿)+log(1/𝜏)
𝜏2

. Combining both cases, the ex-
pected running time of 𝑝SC is bounded by
𝑂
log(1/𝛿) +log(1/max (𝜏,𝜏c))
max(𝜏,𝜏c)2

(5)
□
B.2
Proof of Theorem 2
Theorem 12. Let 𝑛= 𝑆
𝜃, and 𝛿= 𝑂(
1
log𝑛), then the run-
ning time of RdBin is bounded by 𝑂

log(log𝑛/𝜏)
𝜏2
×log𝑛

Proof. Let 𝛿=
𝑐
log𝑛, where 𝑐is considered to be a constant
factor and 𝑐> 0. By Equation 5, we can obtain that for
each random walk phase of RdBin, the expected running
time is bounded by 𝑂

log(log𝑛/𝜏)
𝜏2

. As the random walk
will terminate within log𝑛steps, and thus the overall
running is bounded by 𝑂

log(log𝑛/𝜏)
𝜏2
×log𝑛

.
□
Theorem 13. Let 𝑝𝑣= 𝑞( 𝑓𝑣), 𝜂= max  𝑞−1(𝑝𝑣± 𝜏),
and 𝛿= 𝑂(
1
log𝑛), then (i) the random walk of RdBin exits
at the correct node with constant failure probability; and
(ii) the inference error is bounded by max( 𝜃
𝑆,𝜂).
1592    32nd USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

Proof. At each step of the random walk, the proba-
bility of moving in the wrong direction is 𝑂(
1
log𝑛).
As such, by union bound, the overall failure proba-
bility is 𝑂(1).
If the random walk exits correctly,
it must have either reached a leaf node or an inter-
val [ 𝑓𝑎, 𝑓𝑏] where |𝑞( ˆ𝑓= 𝑓𝑎+ 𝑓𝑏
2
) −𝑞( 𝑓𝑣)| < 𝜏, indicat-
ing that the minimum comparison threshold has been
met.
For the first case, since | 𝑓𝑎−𝑓𝑏| = 𝜃
𝑆, thus the
inference error must be bounded by
𝜃
𝑆.
For the sec-
ond case, it is clear that the error must be smaller than
max  |𝑞−1(𝑝𝑣+ 𝜏) −𝑓𝑣|, |𝑞−1(𝑝𝑣−𝜏) −𝑓𝑣|.
□
B.3
Proof of Theorem 3
Proof. (Theorem 3) Consider party 𝑃𝑖and let 𝑆𝑖=
{𝑠𝑖
1,𝑠𝑖
2,...,𝑠𝑖
𝑡} to be the stake history of 𝑃𝑖.
Given
𝑆𝑡= {𝑠1,𝑠2,...,𝑠𝑡} and 𝑆′
𝑡= {𝑠′
1,𝑠′
2,...,𝑠′
𝑡} to be a pair
of (𝛼,𝑢)-neighbor stake profiles. Let 𝑥, 𝑦∈R such that
𝑥≤𝑦≤𝑥+ 𝛼, and by definition of (𝛼,𝑢)-neighbor we
have 𝑠𝑢= 𝑥, 𝑠′
𝑢= 𝑦.
We also consider a given out-
put 𝑜⊂𝑅𝑎𝑛𝑔𝑒(Lkg) and next.
we compute the fol-
lowing probabilities (Note that we simplify the term
Pr

Lkg⟨𝑃𝑖,𝑆⟩= 𝑜

as a conditional probability Pr [𝑜| 𝑆])
Pr

𝑜| 𝑠𝑖
𝑢= 𝑠𝑢

≤max
𝑆𝑡Pr [𝑜| 𝑆𝑡] ×
∑︁
𝑆𝑡⊂S
Pr

𝑆𝑡| 𝑠𝑖
𝑢= 𝑥

Pr

𝑜| 𝑠𝑖
𝑢= 𝑠′
𝑢

≥min
𝑆′
𝑡
Pr

𝑜| 𝑆′
𝑡

×
∑︁
𝑆′
𝑡⊂S
Pr

𝑆′
𝑡| 𝑠𝑖
𝑢= 𝑦

Note that any stake dataset 𝑆⊂S is a (𝛼,𝑢)-neighbor
of itself.
Thus it holds that Í
𝑆𝑡⊂S Pr

𝑆𝑡| 𝑠𝑖
𝑢= 𝑥

≤
Í
𝑆′
𝑡⊂S Pr

𝑆′
𝑡| 𝑠𝑖
𝑢= 𝑦

, since for any 𝑆𝑡there exists at least
one (𝛼,𝑢)-neighbor 𝑆′
𝑡. In addition, by Definition 5.3, we
know that max𝑆𝑡Pr [𝑜| 𝑆𝑡] ≤𝑒𝜔(𝑡−𝑢) ×min𝑆′
𝑡Pr

𝑜| 𝑆′
𝑡

.
Thus by combing the two facts, we can conclude that:
Pr

𝑜| 𝑠𝑖
𝑢= 𝑠𝑢

Pr

𝑜| 𝑠𝑖𝑢= 𝑠′𝑢
 ≤
Í
𝑆𝑡⊂S Pr

𝑆𝑡| 𝑠𝑖
𝑢= 𝑥

Í
𝑆′
𝑡⊂S Pr

𝑆′
𝑡| 𝑠𝑖𝑢= 𝑦
 × max𝑆𝑡Pr [𝑜| 𝑆𝑡]
min𝑆′
𝑡Pr

𝑜| 𝑆′
𝑡

By Bayes’ theorem
Pr

𝑠𝑖
𝑢= 𝑥| 𝑜

Pr

𝑠𝑖𝑢= 𝑦| 𝑜

 Pr

𝑠𝑖
𝑢= 𝑥

Pr

𝑠𝑖𝑢= 𝑦

=
Pr

𝑠𝑖
𝑢= 𝑥| 𝑜

Pr[𝑜]
Pr

𝑠𝑖𝑢= 𝑥

 Pr

𝑠𝑖
𝑢= 𝑦| 𝑜

Pr[𝑜]
Pr

𝑠𝑖𝑢= 𝑦

=Pr

𝑜| 𝑠𝑖
𝑢= 𝑠𝑢

Pr

𝑜| 𝑠𝑖𝑢= 𝑠′𝑢
 ≤𝑒𝜔(𝑡−𝑢)×𝜖(Definition 5.1)
(6)
□
B.4
Proof of Theorem 4
Proof. (Theorem 4) We first recall the important nota-
tions: (i) REAL𝜋
A,E, denotes the transcript of real world
protocol (𝜋) execution between the honest party and the
adversary A involving environment E; (ii) IDEALF
S,E,
denotes the transcript generated by simulator a S with
input of a leakage profile Lkg who corrupts the same par-
ties as A and interacts only with a trusted functionality
F and the environment E. We consider a set of parties
𝑃= {𝑃1, 𝑃2,..., 𝑃𝑛}, and the environment E can activate
stake distribution, S = {𝑆𝑖}1≤𝑖≤𝑛, for all parties across
every time slot. (In fact, the environment E can acti-
vate every transaction for each party, which essentially
governs stake distribution among parties over time.) By
definition, as Î UC-emulates ledger maintenance com-
mand, thus ∀E, there exists a simulator SLM such that:
IDEALFLM
SLM(𝜙(S)),E ≈ind REAL
Î(S)
A,E
(7)
Next, we prove that with the same simulator SLM, one
can also simulate indistinguishable transcripts against
protocol Î
LM∗.
We prove this by contradiction.
As-
sume there exists an environment E and a distorted stake
distribution ˜S𝑎←𝑓(S𝑎) such that
IDEALFLM
SLM( 𝜙( ˜S𝑎)) ,E 0ind REAL
Î
LM∗(S𝑎)
A,E
(8)
where Î
LM∗(S𝑎) denotes the execution of protocol
Î
LM∗under the stake distribution S𝑎.
As Î
LM∗only
modifies the inputs rather than the interface with the
environment or the components of Î, the equivalence
REAL
Î
LM∗(S𝑎)
A,E
≈ind REAL
Î( ˜S𝑎)
A,E
becomes evident.
In
other words, we keep the environment unchanged but
only change the stake distribution from S𝑎to ˜S𝑎, then
the execution transcripts of Î
LM∗(S) and Î( ˜S) should
be indistinguishable. And by the assumption Eq 8, we
can trivially obtain that
IDEALFLM
SLM( 𝜙( ˜S𝑎)) ,E 0ind REAL
Î( ˜S𝑎)
A,E
This implies that if E activates the stake distribution
as ˜S𝑎, then simulator SLM is unable to generate indistin-
guishable transcripts against the real protocol executions
of Î, which evidently contradicts Equation 7. Conse-
quently, we can deduce that no such environment exists,
and the assumption (Eq 8) is incorrect. Therefore, for
any stake distribution activation, the same simulator SLM
can also produce indistinguishable transcripts against the
real execution of Î
LM∗with leakage 𝜙( ˜S).
□
B.5
Proof of Theorem 5
Proof. (Theorem
5)
Let
𝑆𝑡= {𝑠𝑗}1≤𝑗≤𝑡
and
𝑆′
𝑡= {𝑠′
𝑗}1≤𝑗≤𝑡be any (𝛼,𝑢)-neighboring stake assign-
ments for an honest party 𝑃. We abstract the distortion
at each time 𝑗as M 𝑗(𝑠), which takes an input stake, 𝑠,
and outputs 𝑠+ Lap( 𝛼
𝜖) if 𝑗mod 𝑇== 0, and M 𝑗−1(𝑠)
USENIX Association
32nd USENIX Security Symposium    1593

otherwise. For ease of notation, we write the conditional
probability
Pr

M 𝑗(𝑠𝑗) = 𝑜𝑗| ∀1≤𝑘≤𝑗−1M𝑘(𝑠𝑘) = 𝑜𝑘

as Pr

M 𝑗(𝑠𝑗) = 𝑜𝑗| ∗

, and compute the following term
Pr
 ˜𝑆𝑡= o

Pr
 ˜𝑆′
𝑡= o
 ≤
𝑢−1
Ö
𝑗=1
1×
𝑡Ö
𝑗=𝑢∧𝑗=𝑘𝑇,𝑘∈N+
𝑒𝜖≤𝑒⌊𝑡−𝑢
𝑇⌋×𝜖
In addition, knowing that Lkg = 𝑓( ˜𝑆𝑡) is a prob-
abilistic function related to the noisy stake assign-
ment.
Thus, by post-processing theorem of DP [26],
Pr [Lkg = o]/Pr [Lkg′ = o] ≤𝑒⌊𝑡−𝑢
𝑇⌋×𝜖.
In general, the
total privacy loss for stake values at any time 𝑢is subject
to 𝑘-fold composition theorem of DP mechanisms [26],
where 𝑘denotes the total number of noisy stake releases
from time 𝑢up to the current moment, which is 𝑡−𝑢
𝑇.
□
B.6
Proof of Theorem 6
Proof. (Theorem 6) Let 𝑆𝑡= {𝑠𝑗}1≤𝑗≤𝑡to be the stake
profiles of an honest party 𝑃, and tx𝑡= {tx 𝑗}1≤𝑗≤𝑡to be
the corresponding transaction outcomes at each time, i.e.,
tx 𝑗= 𝑠𝑗−𝑠𝑗−1. Let M(tx𝑡) be a mechanism that processes
the noisy p-sums based on tx𝑡, and ˜𝑆𝑡←𝑓(M(tx𝑡)) is
an algorithm that aggregates the output of M to derive
the noisy stake at each time. We say that, for any pair of
(𝛼,𝑢)-neighboring stake profiles 𝑆𝑡, and 𝑆′
𝑡, with corre-
sponding tx𝑡, tx′
𝑡. It holds that if for any o ⊆𝑅𝑎𝑛𝑔𝑒(M),
Pr [M(tx𝑡) = o]
Pr [M′(tx𝑡) = o] ≤𝑒𝜔(𝑡−𝑢)×𝜖
(9)
hence the released noisy stake ˜𝑆𝑡←𝑓(M(tx𝑡)) satisfies
Definition 5.3 under the same decay function 𝜔, given 𝑓
only conduct post-processing operations. By the theory
of the Laplace mechanism, Pr[M(tx𝑡)=o]
Pr[M′ (tx𝑡)=o] ≤𝑒𝜖, when 𝑡= 𝑢.
Moreover, when 0 < 𝑡−𝑢≤𝐿, then the privacy loss is
subject to phase two distortion (privacy loss due to noisy
interval tree generation). Note that tx𝑢can be used to
generate at most log2( (𝑡−𝑢)
𝑇
) many noisy nodes (p-sums),
thus the phase two privacy loss is bounded by
Pr [Lkg = o]/Pr [Lkg′ = o] ≤𝑒log2( 𝑡−𝑢
𝑇)×𝜖
In addition, when 𝑡−𝑢> 𝐿, then the mechanism incurs
privacy loss for both phase one and phase two distortion.
By Theorem 5 the total phase one privacy loss is bounded
by ⌊𝑡−𝑢
𝐿⌋× 𝜖. For phase two, the max privacy loss is
bounded by 𝑒log2( 𝐿
𝑇)×𝜖. As such, we may conclude
Pr [Lkg = o]/Pr [Lkg′ = o] ≤𝑒(⌊𝑡−𝑢
𝐿⌋+log2( 𝑡−𝑢
𝑇))×𝜖
As summary, the privacy decay function to be
𝜔(𝑡−𝑢) ≤
(
⌊𝑡−𝑢
𝐿⌋+log2( 𝐿
𝑇),
if (𝑡−𝑢) > 𝐿
log2( 𝑡−𝑢
𝑇),
otherwise
(10)
□
B.7
Proof of Theorem 7
Lemma 14. Given 𝑛independent and identically dis-
tributed (i.i.d.) Laplace random variables 𝑋1, 𝑋2,..., 𝑋𝑛
drawn from Lap( Δ
𝜖). Let 𝑋= Í𝑛
𝑖=1 𝑋𝑖, 0 < 𝛼≤𝑛Δ
𝜖, then:
Pr [ 𝑋≥𝛼] ≤𝑒

−𝛼2Δ2
4𝑛𝜖2

Proof. Please refer to the proof to Lemma 12.2 in [26] or
proof to Theorem 6 in [55]
□
Proof. (Theorem 7) When adopting stake distortion, the
inference errors consist of two parts: (i) the error due
to injected DP noises and (ii) the error caused by the
inference algorithm. By Theorem 2, the part (ii) noise is
bounded by 𝜂. By Lemma 14, and let 𝑒( −𝛼2Δ2
4𝑛𝜖2 ) = 𝛽, and
take log on both sides, one can obtain that with probability
at least 1−𝛽, for any 𝛽> 0. 𝑋is bounded by 2 Δ
𝜖
√︃
𝑛log 1
𝛽.
Hence, we can conclude that when FTimer and FBin are
applied, the part (i) errors are bounded by 𝑂( 𝛼
𝜖), and
𝑂(
√
𝐿𝛼
𝜖), respectively.
□
B.8
Proof of Theorem 8
Proof. (Theorem 8) Let 𝑋𝑎≤1−𝛾
3 𝑆, 𝑋ℎ≥2+𝛾
3 𝑆to be
stake controlled by the adversary and the honest par-
ties, respectively.
We denote the distorted stake as
˜𝑋𝑎←𝑋𝑎+𝑌𝑛𝑎, and ˜𝑋ℎ←𝑋ℎ+𝑌𝑛ℎ, respectively for ad-
versary and honest, where 𝑌𝑥is the summation of 𝑥i.i.d.
Laplace random variables, and 𝑛𝑎, 𝑛𝑏denotes the num-
ber of honest and malicious parties, respectively, such
that 𝑛𝑎+𝑛𝑏= 𝑛. To ensure that the corrupted stake after
distortion is bounded by 1
3, we need to have ˜𝑋ℎ−2 ˜𝑋𝑎> 0
with high probability. Knowing that:
˜𝑋ℎ−2 ˜𝑋𝑎= (𝑋ℎ−2𝑋𝑎) +𝑌𝑛ℎ−2𝑌𝑛𝑎= 𝛾𝑆+𝑌𝑛ℎ−2𝑌𝑛𝑎
(11)
Since the random variables are symmetric, without loss
of generality, we may assume the following
Pr
 ˜𝑋ℎ−2 ˜𝑋𝑎< 0

= Pr [𝑌𝑛ℎ+2𝑌𝑛𝑎> 𝛾𝑆]
(12)
By Lemma 12.2 in [26], we can obtain that for 𝛽∈(0,1)
Pr
"
𝑌𝑛ℎ+2𝑌𝑛𝑎>
√︄
log 2
𝛽
𝛼 √𝑛ℎ+2√𝑛𝑎

𝜖𝑆
#
≤𝛽
(13)
As 𝑛ℎ+ 𝑛𝑎< 𝑆
𝜐and 𝑛ℎ> 2𝑛𝑎, then √𝑛ℎ+ 2√𝑛𝑎<
1.74
√︃
𝑆
𝜐. Thus, by setting 𝛾≥1.74𝛼
𝜖𝑆
√︁𝑆
𝜐log 1
𝛽, one can
conclude that with probability at least 1−𝛽, the adversary
controlled stake after distortion does not exceed 1
3.
□
1594    32nd USENIX Security Symposium
USENIX Association

