Accountability for Misbehavior
in Threshold Decryption via Threshold
Traitor Tracing
Dan Boneh(B), Aditi Partap, and Lior Rotem
Stanford University, Stanford, USA
{dabo,aditi712,lrotem}@cs.stanford.edu
Abstract. A t-out-of-n threshold decryption system assigns key shares
to n parties so that any t of them can decrypt a well-formed ciphertext.
Existing threshold decryption systems are not secure when these parties
are rational actors: an adversary can oﬀer to pay the parties for their
key shares. The problem is that a quorum of t parties, working together,
can sell the adversary a decryption key that reveals nothing about the
identity of the traitor parties. This provides a risk-free proﬁt for the
parties since there is no accountability for their misbehavior—the infor-
mation they sell to the adversary reveals nothing about their identity.
This behavior can result in a complete break in many applications of
threshold decryption, such as encrypted mempools, private voting, and
sealed-bid auctions.
In this work we propose a solution to this problem. Suppose a quo-
rum of t or more parties construct a decoder algorithm D(·) that takes as
input a ciphertext and outputs the corresponding plaintext or ⊥. They
sell D to the adversary. Our threshold decryption systems are equipped
with a tracing algorithm that can trace D to members of the quorum
that created it. The tracing algorithm is only given blackbox access to D
and will identify some members of the misbehaving quorum. The parties
can then be held accountable, which may discourage them from selling
the decoder D in the ﬁrst place.
Our starting point is standard (non-threshold) traitor tracing, where
n parties each holds a secret key. Every party can decrypt a well-formed
ciphertext on its own. However, if a subset of parties J ⊆[n] collude to
create a pirate decoder D(·) that can decrypt well-formed ciphertexts,
then it is possible to trace D to at least one member of J using only
blackbox access to the decoder D.
In this work we develop the theory of traitor tracing for threshold
decryption, where now only a subset J ⊆[n] of t or more parties can
collude to create a pirate decoder D(·). This problem has recently become
quite important due to the real-world deployment of threshold decryp-
tion in encrypted mempools, as we explain in the paper. While there
are several non-threshold traitor tracing schemes that we can lever-
age, adapting these constructions to the threshold decryption settings
requires new cryptographic techniques. We present a number of con-
structions for traitor tracing for threshold decryption, and note that
much work remains to explore the large design space.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2024
L. Reyzin and D. Stebila (Eds.): CRYPTO 2024, LNCS 14926, pp. 317–351, 2024.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-68394-7_11

318
D. Boneh et al.
1
Introduction
Accountability is needed in many applications of cryptography. In the context
of digital signatures, accountability is often needed when using threshold sig-
natures: if a quorum of t-out-of-n parties sign an invalid message, there is a
need to identify the misbehaving quorum. An accountable threshold signature
scheme is often built from a multisignature scheme [5,7,10,12,15,42,44] where
every signature securely identiﬁes the set of signing parties that generated it.
In this paper we develop the concept of accountability for threshold decryp-
tion. In a t-of-n threshold decryption scheme, there are n parties, and party i
obtains at setup a secret key share ski. Later, when that party chooses to decrypt
a ciphertext c, it uses ski to output a decryption share. Another party, which
we call the combiner, collects t decryption shares and uses them to obtain a
plaintext m, possibly using a public combiner key denoted by pkc.
The concern is that an adversary could oﬀer to buy the secret key shares
from some parties. Without accountability, this oﬀer provides a risk-free proﬁt
for the parties. Our goal is to ensure that if some parties sell their secret key
shares, then it is possible to securely identify those parties—or some subset of
them—and hold them accountable. Here we are assuming that a whistleblower,
William, reveals the information that the adversary purchased. William wants
to ensure that this information securely identiﬁes the guilty parties. We explain
below why this is a good framing of the problem.
William might hope that reporting a set of well-formed secret key shares
will identify the subset who sold their keys. However, this is clearly insecure.
First, for common threshold decryption schemes (such as [9,25,31,55] and many
others), a quorum of t parties has enough information to derive the secret key
share of every other party. This lets them frame an innocent quorum by giving
the adversary key shares that belong to some other parties. Second, only a naive
decryption party would give the adversary its decryption key share as is. A more
sophisticated set of t parties would jointly generate a “master” key that lets the
adversary decrypt, but cannot be traced to anyone.
We will need to defend against both issues raised above. These issues sug-
gest that a sophisticated set of parties will not sell the adversary a simple key.
Instead, they will jointly construct a decoder algorithm D(·) that takes as input a
ciphertext c and outputs a plaintext m. The challenge is to identify the guilty set
of parties using only black-box access to this decoder D. This question is closely
related to traitor tracing [27], but in a very diﬀerent context. Traitor tracing
schemes are designed for settings where every party can decrypt a ciphertext on
its own. Think of a set of dvd players, where every player needs to decrypt an
encrypted dvd disk on its own. In our settings, at least t secret key shares are
needed to decrypt a ciphertext. As such, this work generalizes the traitor tracing
problem to the settings of threshold decryption. We consider two very diﬀerent
situations.
Case 1: A Decoder from a Greater-Than-Threshold Quorum. Suppose
that a coalition of f traitors, where f ≥t, constructs a decoder algorithm D(·).

Accountability for Misbehavior in Threshold Decryption
319
They have enough information to construct a decoder that takes as input a
ciphertext c and outputs its decryption. Our goal is to trace this decoder to
at least one member of the coalition of traitors, possibly using a tracing key tk
generated at setup. We give precise deﬁnitions in Sect. 3.
A natural starting point to construct such a system is any of the (non-
threshold) traitor tracing schemes that are fully collusion resistant. Some such
systems are built from pairings [18,33,34,60,61], some are built from lattices [26,
35], and some are built from iO [23], to name a few. We explain in Sect. 3 that
adapting these schemes to the threshold settings requires new techniques. In
this paper we look at using a fully collusion-resistant scheme due to Boneh and
Naor [14] and Billet and Phan [6] (see Sect. 4). This traitor tracing scheme has
constant size ciphertext and public key. Secret key shares in this scheme are long
(quadratic in n), but still quite reasonable when n is at most a few hundreds, as
is usually the case in applications of threshold decryption.
Adapting this non-threshold traitor tracing system to the threshold decryp-
tion settings requires a new cryptographic primitive we call Bipartite Threshold
Encryption (technically, Bipartite Threshold KEM, or BT-KEM), as described
in Sect. 4.1. We give three constructions for a BT-KEM: a direct (but ineﬃcient)
combinatorial construction, an eﬃcient construction with short ciphertexts from
DDH, and a further improvement providing short public keys as well, using pair-
ings. These constructions illustrate the added complexity in constructing traitor
tracing systems for threshold decryption. Our tracing algorithm works by feed-
ing the decoder D malformed ciphertexts. The decoder will successfully decrypt
some ciphertexts and output “fail” on others. We show that this success and
failure pattern reveals at least one traitor whose key was used to create D.
We stress that the short ciphertext size in our schemes (four group elements
in the pairing scheme) is especially appealing for an encrypted mempool system,
such as [4], where ciphertexts are posted on chain. In the full version [16, App. B],
we also show how to adapt the recent traitor tracing scheme of Gong, Lou, and
Wee [34] to the threshold setting using very diﬀerent techniques.
Case 2: A Decoder from a Below-Threshold Quorum. We next turn to
tracing a decoder D built from a coalition J of f traitors, where f < t. This
decoder cannot decrypt a ciphertext on its own and needs to take additional
decryption shares as input. In particular, for a ciphertext c the decoder D is
invoked as D(c, d1, . . . , dk), where d1, . . . , dk are decryption shares for c from
some set of parties S ⊆[n] of size |S| = k ≥t −f. We consider two types of
decoders:
– A universal decoder outputs the correct decryption of a well-formed cipher-
text c (with non-negligible probability) whenever |J ∪S| ≥t. That is, the
decoder will decrypt a well-formed c whenever it has enough information to
do so. In Sect. 6 we describe a generic tracing procedure for such a decoder,
assuming that the threshold decryption scheme is semantically secure. The
tracing procedure will output at least one member of the coalition J that
created D.

320
D. Boneh et al.
– An exact decoder outputs the correct decryption of a well-formed ciphertext c
(with non-negligible probability) only when |S| = t−f and |J ∪S| = t. This
is a more restrictive decoder that only takes t −f valid decryption shares as
input. Tracing is not possible in this case because, without knowledge of J ,
the tracing algorithm cannot ﬁnd a set S such that |S| = t−f and |J ∪S| = t.
To see why, observe that the number of such sets is only
n−f
t−f

, and this can be
a negligible fraction of the total number of subsets of size t −f. For example,
when t = n/3 and f = t/2, the fraction is 2−Ω(n). Consequently, we show in
Sect. 6 that for a robust threshold decryption scheme, the tracing algorithm
can never get the decoder to work (the decoder always outputs ⊥), and this
implies that tracing is impossible.
Instead, we design in Sect. 6 a conﬁrmation algorithm. The algorithm takes as
input a suspect coalition J ∗⊆[n] and uses blackbox access to the decoder D
to convince a veriﬁer that J ∗is the traitor set.
Note that we disallow a decoder D that only works for a constant number of
speciﬁc sets S∗where |J ∪S∗| = t. In this extreme case, neither conﬁrmation
nor tracing is possible, by a similar argument as above.
1.1
Motivation
Why study traitor tracing for threshold decryption? First, accountability for
threshold decryption is a long-standing and well-motivated question that is
interesting in its own right. It comes up naturally in many applications of
threshold decryption, such as voting [28] and sealed-bid auctions [53]. In all
these applications one wants accountability for parties who sell their secret key
shares. Second, this topic has recently become important due to the introduc-
tion of encrypted mempools [4] using threshold decryption in multiple blockchain
projects [47,56,59]. The goal of an encrypted mempool is to keep the data in a
block secret until the block is ﬁnalized (posted) on chain. After ﬁnalization, the
block should become available in the clear so that all the transactions in the block
can be executed. Keeping transaction data hidden until the block is ﬁnalized is
intended to prevent a certain value extraction technique called MEV [2,29,49].
We refer to Rondelet and Kilbourn [50] for a detailed analysis of the beneﬁts
and limitations of deploying an encrypted mempool.
Several encrypted mempool designs use identical consensus and decryption
committees [1,4]. The idea is that when a validator signs a block, it also releases
one decryption share for that block. This way, once two thirds of the validators
in the consensus committee sign the block—thereby ﬁnalizing it—there are also
enough decryption shares to decrypt the block. In particular, the decryption
threshold is set to two thirds of the consensus committee.
A critical weakness of this design is that an adversary could bribe members
of the consensus committee into creating a decoder D that lets the adversary
decrypt blocks before they are ﬁnalized. This lets the adversary engage in MEV
extraction and defeats the purpose of encrypting the mempool in the ﬁrst place.

Accountability for Misbehavior in Threshold Decryption
321
Crucially, without the ability to trace the decoder D, this bribe provides a risk-
free proﬁt for the validators, so there is no reason for them to refuse the bribe.
Traitor tracing for threshold decryption puts the validators at risk of being
slashed and may compel them to not engage with the adversary.
A similar problem comes up in other applications of threshold decryption,
such as voting [28] and sealed-bid auctions [53]. In the case of a sealed-bid
auction, threshold decryption is used to ensure that the bids are decrypted only
after all the encrypted bids are submitted. If the decryption parties sell their
key shares to the adversary, risk free, then secrecy of the bids is compromised,
and the adversary can optimally win every auction.
Why Focus on Tracing a Decoder? So far we focused on tracing a decoder
algorithm that can be reset and run multiple times (a stateless decoder). One
could argue that a set of t or more traitors might only be willing to provide an
anonymous decryption service: the adversary sends a well-formed ciphertext c
to the service, the traitors jointly decrypt it, and send back (anonymously) the
decryption of c. This will defeat our tracing strategy because the set of traitors
can maintain state across diﬀerent decryption requests. If they ever detect a
request to decrypt a malformed ciphertext (which is how tracing often works)
they could panic and refuse to answer any more requests. This will defeat tracing
algorithms designed to trace stateless algorithms.
We provide two arguments for why tracing a decoder D is a good model
to focus on. First, a decryption service is unappealing to an adversary who is
trying to decrypt a ciphertext for its own beneﬁt. The problem is that the parties
running the decryption service will learn the plaintext before the adversary.
They could then front-run the adversary by using the plaintext for their own
beneﬁt and cut the adversary oﬀ. In other words, in the setting of an encrypted
mempool, it is very likely that an adversary will only pay the bribe in exchange
for a decoding algorithm that the adversary can run on its own machines.
Our second argument is more technical. In the context of traitor tracing we
can model a decryption service as a stateful decoder, namely a decoder that
maintains state and can modify its behavior based on an earlier sequence of
requests. Tracing a stateful decoder is much harder even in the non-threshold
settings. Several schemes have been proposed [38,48,57], however these construc-
tions rely on watermarking digital media and cannot be used for encrypting short
messages, as in voting, auctions, and encrypted mempools.
1.2
Additional Related Work
Although the literature on traitor tracing is vast, this work is the ﬁrst to deﬁne
and construct traitor tracing in the context of threshold decryption. Some (non-
threshold) traitor tracing schemes, such as [11,27,40], are designed to trace a
pirate decoder that was created by a coalition of bounded size. Schemes that are
secure against an arbitrary coalition size are said to be fully collusion resistant.
The ﬁrst fully collision-resistant traitor tracing scheme with a public key,
ciphertext, and secret key that are all sublinear in the number n of parties was

322
D. Boneh et al.
proposed by Boneh, Sahai, and Waters [18] (see also [22]). Their scheme was
based on an assumption over composite order bilinear groups, and enjoyed public
key and ciphertext of size O(√n) and constant size secret keys. Garg, Kumara-
subramanian, Sahai, and Waters [33] subsequently achieved similar parameters
using prime order bilinear groups. In [60], Wee constructed a functional encryp-
tion scheme for quadratic functions, that can be used to reproduce the result
of [33] directly using the framework of [18]. In a recent breakthrough result,
Zhandry [61] constructed a pairing-based traitor tracing scheme where the pub-
lic key, ciphertext, and secret key were all of size O(n1/3). His proof of security
was in the generic group model [54]. This was later on improved by Gong, Luo,
and Wee [34], who got the secret key size down to a constant while relying on
standard assumptions over bilinear groups.
There are also traitor-tracing schemes from lattice-based assumptions. The
groundbreaking work of Goyal, Koppula, and Waters [35] constructed the ﬁrst
fully collision-resistant traitor tracing scheme directly from lattice-based assump-
tions. Their construction boasts essentially optimal parameters, where the public
key, ciphertext size, and secret keys, all grow poly-logarithmically in n. Their
construction was later greatly simpliﬁed by Chen et al. [26]. In Sect. 3 we discuss
the techniques underlying all these pairing-based and lattice-based schemes in
more detail.
Optimal traitor tracing can also be achieved from indistinguishability obfus-
cation [23]. We believe that this construction lends itself to the threshold decryp-
tion setting in a fairly straightforward manner.
Naor and Pinkas studied [43] threshold traitor tracing, where the goal is
to trace a pirate decoder that successfully decrypts an input ciphertext with
some threshold probability. This is unrelated to traitor tracing for threshold
decryption.
The recent work of Li et al. [41] also considered accountability for decryp-
tion. However, their focus was completely dissimilar to ours, as they considered
notions of accountability in the non-threshold setting and hardware-based solu-
tions.
Finally, we mention that Goyal, Song, and Srinivasan [37] and Boneh, Partap
and Rotem [17] considered the question of accountability in a secret sharing
scheme, where share holders might be willing to sell their shares. Apart from
the fact that they consider accountability in secret sharing, whereas we consider
threshold decryption, there are two other reasons why their techniques cannot be
used for tracing traitors in threshold decryption. First, both works only consider
a collusion of less-than-threshold set of corrupt parties. This is inherent, since a
set of t parties can simply reconstruct and sell the secret, in which case there is
no hope of tracing. Second, both Goyal et al. [37] and Boneh et al. [17] consider
a diﬀerent leakage model than ours. Essentially, in both these works, the leak is
modeled as a reconstruction box that takes in additional shares and outputs a
secret (there are diﬀerences between the two works, which we will not go into
here). This is functionally diﬀerent from a decoder box that has t keys hardcoded
in it, and takes in only messages to decrypt, as is the case in this paper. These

Accountability for Misbehavior in Threshold Decryption
323
diﬀerences necessitate very diﬀerent techniques. The reader is referred to [17,37]
for further details.
2
Preliminaries
Threshold Decryption Schemes. We begin by deﬁning threshold decryption
schemes [30,31]. The deﬁnitions we use follow those of Boneh and Shoup [21]. A
threshold decryption scheme E = (KeyGen, Enc, Dec, Combine) is a tuple of four
polynomial-time algorithms:
1. KeyGen(1λ, n, t) →(pk, pkc, sk1, . . . , skn) is the probabilistic key genera-
tion algorithm. It takes in the security parameter λ ∈N, the number n of
decryptors and the threshold t. It outputs a public key pk, a combiner public
key pkc, and secret keys sk1, . . . , skn.
2. Enc(pk, m) →c is the probabilistic encryption algorithm. It takes as input
the public key pk and a message m, and it outputs a ciphertext c.
3. Dec(ski, c) →di is the deterministic decryption algorithm. It takes in a
decryptor’s secret key ski and a ciphertext c, and its output is a decryption
share di of c under ski.
4. Combine(pkc, c, J , {dj}j∈J ) →m/⊥is the deterministic combiner algo-
rithm. Its input is a combiner public key pkc, a ciphertext c, a subset J
of [n], and decryption shares {dj}j∈J . It outputs either a message m or a
rejection symbol ⊥.
Correctness. An honestly generated ciphertext should be correctly decrypted by
any subset of t decryptors. Speciﬁcally, there exists a negligible function negl(λ)
of the security parameter λ, such that, for all λ ∈N, all n, t ∈N, all t-sized
subsets J ⊆[n], and all messages m in the message space, it holds that
Pr
⎡
⎢⎢⎣m′ = m :
(pk, pkc, sk1, . . . , skn) ←
$ KeyGen(1λ, n, t)
c ←
$ Enc(pk, m)
∀i ∈J , di ←Dec(ski, c)
m′ ←Combine(pkc, c, J , {dj}j∈J )
⎤
⎥⎥⎦≥1 −negl(λ).
Security. We require that a threshold decryption scheme satisﬁes the standard
notion of semantic security. Many applications require the stronger notion of
security against chosen-ciphertext attacks (CCA security). We do not consider
CCA security in this paper since our focus is the notion of traitor tracing, which
seems orthogonal to CCA security (see Sect. 7). The notion of semantic security
is captured by the security game in Fig. 1.
Deﬁnition 2.1 (Semantic security). We say that E satisﬁes semantic secu-
rity if for every probabilistic polynomial time adversary A, the following function
is negligible in λ:
Advcpa
A,E(λ) := |1 −2 · Pr[IND-CPAA,E(λ) = 1]| .

324
D. Boneh et al.
Fig. 1. The semantic security experiment for a threshold decryption scheme E and an
adversary A.
Robustness. Most scenarios call for a robust threshold decryption scheme. By
that, we mean that a decryption share di can be publicly veriﬁed, to make
sure that it is indeed a valid decryption share of a ciphertext c, originat-
ing from party i. Syntactically, the KeyGen algorithm now outputs an addi-
tional veriﬁcation key vk and the Dec algorithm outputs a robustness proof
πi along with the decryption share di. We deﬁne an additional algorithm,
ShareVf(pk, vk, c, (di, πi), i), that takes as input the public key pk, the veri-
ﬁcation key vk, a cipher text c and a decryption share along with the cor-
responding robustness proof (di, πi) from party i, and the index i of that
party. It outputs 0 or 1, denoting whether (di, πi) is a valid decryption
share for c for party i. For correctness, we require that ShareVf outputs 1
for an honestly generated share, i.e. ShareVf(pk, vk, c, (di, πi), i) = 1 for any
(pk, pkc, sk1, . . . , skn) ←$ KeyGen(1λ, n, t), c ←
$ Enc(pk, m), (di, πi) ←Dec(ski, c)
for all values of n, t, m, i. We may sometimes implicitly assume that in a robust
scheme, each decryption share di encodes the party i from which it originated.
For security, we require that the threshold decryption scheme satisﬁes decryp-
tion consistency. Informally, it means that an adversary cannot produce two
diﬀerent shares di, ˆdi with valid robustness proofs for any party i, and any cipher-
text c, even if it is given the secret keys for all parties. This is captured by the
security game in Fig. 2.
Deﬁnition 2.2 (Robustness). We say that E satisﬁes robustness if, for every
probabilistic polynomial time adversary A, the following function is negligible
in λ:

Accountability for Misbehavior in Threshold Decryption
325
Advdc
A,E(λ) := Pr [DCA,E(λ) = 1]
Fig. 2. The security game DCA,E(λ) capturing robustness for a threshold decryption
scheme E and an adversary A.
Looking ahead, our constructions in Sects. 4 and 5 do not explicitly provide
robustness (since this is not the focus of this work), but can be made robust
using standard techniques. One of our constructions in Sect. 6 relies on a generic
threshold decryption scheme, that is robust as per Deﬁnition 2.2 above.
KEM vs. Encryption. In certain parts of the paper, we may ﬁnd it conve-
nient to work with threshold key-encapsulation mechanisms (KEMs) rather than
threshold decryption schemes. Syntactically, a threshold KEM is deﬁned by the
same algorithms as a threshold decryption scheme, but the encapsulation algo-
rithm Enc gets only the public key pk (and no message) as input. It outputs
a ciphertext c but also a key k from some key space K = K(λ) induced by the
KEM. Accordingly, Combine outputs a key k′ from the key space, rather than a
message. Correctness requires that there exists a negligible function negl(λ) of
the security parameter, such that, for all λ ∈N, all 0 < t < n, and all t-sized
subsets J of [n] it holds that
Pr
⎡
⎢⎢⎣k′ = k








(pk, pkc, sk1, . . . , skn) ←
$ KeyGen(1λ, n, t)
(c, k) ←
$ Enc(pk)
di ←Dec(ski, c) for i ∈J
k′ ←Combine(pkc, c, J , {di}i∈J )
⎤
⎥⎥⎦≥1 −negl(λ).
Semantic security is deﬁned similarly to that of threshold decryption with the
following changes to the IND-CPAA,E(λ) experiment: the adversary A now
does not choose messages (m0, m1). Instead, Enc outputs a key k together with
c. If b = 1, then when A is given the ciphertext c, it is also given the key k. If
b = 0, then A is given a uniformly random key k′ in the key space K.

326
D. Boneh et al.
3
Tracing Large Traitor Coalitions
In this section, we deﬁne traitor tracing for threshold KEM schemes, in the
setting where the number f of corruptions is greater than the threshold t.
A traitor tracing threshold KEM (TTT-KEM for short) is a threshold KEM
(recall Sect. 2) with the following modiﬁcations:
– KeyGen(1λ, n, t, 11/ϵ) →(pk, pkc, sk1, . . . , skn, tk) now also takes in an error
parameter ϵ = ϵ(λ) and outputs an additional tracing key tk.
– There is an additional PPT tracing algorithm Trace that is invoked as
J ←
$ TraceD(·)(pk, tk, 11/ϵ). The algorithm takes as input the public key pk,
the tracing key tk, and an error bound ϵ = ϵ(λ). Trace also has oracle access
to a “decoder” algorithm D. It outputs a subset J ⊆[n].
Informally, if the decoder D, given a ciphertext c, can learn any information
about the encapsulated key, then Trace traces D back to a party from the
coalition that “manufactured” it. The following deﬁnition captures this prop-
erty using the security experiment in Fig. 3.
Fig. 3. The tracing experiment for a threshold KEM E and an adversary A. The
corruption oracle corrupt(·) is deﬁned as in Fig. 1.
Deﬁnition 3.1. Let
ϵ
=
ϵ(λ)
and
δ
=
δ(λ)
be
functions
of
the
security
parameter
λ
∈
N.
A
traitor-tracing
threshold
KEM
E
=
(KeyGen, Enc, Dec, Combine, Trace) with key space K = {Kλ} is (ϵ, δ)-secure if
for every PPT adversary A and for every λ ∈N, the following two conditions
hold
Pr [GoodTr] ≥Pr [GoodDec] −δ(λ)
and
Pr [BadTr] ≤δ(λ)
where (pk, D, J , J ′) ←
$
ExpTraceA,E,ϵ(λ) as deﬁned in Fig. 3. The events
GoodDec, GoodTr, and BadTr are deﬁned as follows:

Accountability for Misbehavior in Threshold Decryption
327
– GoodDec occurs when P(D) ≥1/2 + ϵ(λ), where P(D) is deﬁned by
P(D) := Pr

D(c, kb) = b : (c, k0) ←
$ Enc(pk),
k1 ←
$ K(λ),
b ←
$ {0, 1}

.
– GoodTr holds when J ′ ̸= ∅and J ′ ⊆J .
– BadTr holds when J ′ ̸= ∅and J ′ ̸⊆J .
We say that E is secure if there exists a negligible function ν = ν(λ) such that
E is (1/p, ν)-secure for every polynomial p = p(λ). For an adversary A and a
TTT-KEM scheme E, we deﬁne
Advtt
A1,T T T E(λ) := max

Pr [GoodDec = 1] −Pr [GoodTr = 1] ,
Pr [BadTr = 1]

.
Semantic security and robustness for TTT-KEM schemes are deﬁned as in
Sect. 2, but the adversary is also given the tracing key tk in both experiments.
In case the TTT-KEM is robust, then in the ExpTrace, the adversary is also
given the share veriﬁcation key vk.
Secret Tracing Key. Note that in our deﬁnition of tracing security, the tracing
key is kept secret from the adversary. This is because, for our constructions,
knowledge of this key can allow the adversary to evade tracing. But, semantic
security is preserved even against adversaries with access to this key. We discuss
this in more detail in Sect. 7.
On “Thresholdizing” Traitor Tracing Schemes. Deﬁnition 3.1 is a strict
generalization of standard traitor tracing schemes for non-threshold KEM or
public key encryption. In particular, setting the threshold t = 1 gives the traitor
tracing deﬁnition for non-threshold schemes. This suggests that TTT-KEMs are
harder to construct than standard traitor tracing schemes.
Existing Approaches for Traitor Tracing. Given the above, a natural avenue to
realize the notion of TTT-KEM is to try and “thresholdize” existing traitor
tracing schemes. We brieﬂy survey some prominent schemes that might serve as
the basis for TTT-KEM constructions:1 Starting with the work of Boneh, Sahai,
and Waters [18] (BSW hereinafter), most eﬃcient constructions of traitor tracing
go through variants of a notion called Private Linear Broadcast Encryption
(PLBE). Since the work of BSW, there have been many works constructing
pairing-based PLBE or variants thereof [22,33,60], constructions of PLBE from
lattices [26,35], and a construction from indistinguishability obfuscation [23].
Zhandry [61] recently constructed a pairing-based traitor tracing scheme that
deviates from the PLBE framework considerably, but still relies on the general
idea of a broadcast system with private revocation.
A completely diﬀerent approach to traitor tracing was suggested by Boneh
and Naor [14] and Billet and Phan [6], utilizing ﬁngerprinting codes [19].
1 We focus here on schemes that oﬀer full collusion resistance, as in our deﬁnition.
Other constructions focus on defending against more restricted traitor coalitions
whose size is a-priori bounded.

328
D. Boneh et al.
Using such codes, they showed how to construct a traitor tracing scheme with
constant-size ciphertexts from any public key encryption scheme. Zhandry [61]
observed that by replacing the underlying public-key encryption scheme with
an identity-based encryption (IBE) scheme, the public-key size is reduced to
constant size.
From Traitor Tracing to TTT-KEM. Converting the above schemes to a TTT-
KEM is harder than might ﬁrst appear. The traditional route of converting a
cryptosystem into a threshold variant of itself is by secret-sharing some secret
key material among all parties. This approach seems to be at odds with the
traitor tracing task: in such transformations, a coalition of f ≥t corrupted
parties can typically reconstruct the secret key of all other parties, and hence can
also frame any innocent party. More generally, to allow tracing, traitor-tracing
schemes need to guarantee some sort of (computational) independence among
the parties’ keys. This independence needs to be preserved even given more than
t secret keys, which seems to go against the traditional thresholdizing via secret-
sharing paradigm. Diﬀerent traitor-tracing schemes employ diﬀerent algebraic
or combinatorial mechanisms to ensure this independence among keys, and so
diﬀerent insights may be necessary in order to convert them into TTT-KEMs. In
this paper, we initiate this endeavor by constructing a TTT-KEM starting from
a traitor tracing scheme based on ﬁngerprinting codes [6,14]. Future work may
do the same for other traitor tracing schemes, such as algebraic PLBE-based
schemes, but this will require very diﬀerent techniques.
Tracing vs. Semantic Security. In the context of non-threshold traitor trac-
ing, Zhandry [61] recently observed that any scheme that provides tracing vis-`a-
vis a deﬁnition similar to Deﬁnition 3.1, automatically provides semantic security
as well. In other words, an adversary that breaks semantic security can be used
to break the tracing guarantee. Consider a successful adversary breaking the
semantic security of a KEM with an advantage of at least 2ϵ for some non-
negligible ϵ. Then the state of this adversary after observing the public key pk
can be seen as a decoder. With non-negligible probability, this decoder will have
an advantage of at least ϵ in distinguishing real keys from random, and so the
event GoodDec occurs with non-negligible probability. However, the semantic
security adversary has corrupted no one! Hence, the event GoodTr occurs with
probability 0. This breaks the tracing deﬁnition.
In the threshold setting, however, this is no longer the case. The reason is
that the semantic security adversary can corrupt up to t −1 parties. Hence,
GoodTr can occur with strictly positive probability. As a toy example, say that
we have a traitor-tracing threshold KEM E that satisﬁes both tracing security
and semantic security. Consider a new (ﬂawed) scheme E′ that on threshold t
instantiates E on threshold t′ < t. E′ inherits the tracing security of E, but it is
not semantically secure: an adversary in possession of t′ < t keys can decrypt
any ciphertext. This shows that for threshold KEM, tracing security does not
imply semantic security.

Accountability for Misbehavior in Threshold Decryption
329
Knowing ϵ in Advance. Note that our deﬁnition requires that KeyGen gets a
lower bound on the decoder’s success probability ϵ. Naor and Pinkas [43] refer
to such schemes as “threshold traitor tracing” schemes (not to be confused with
our notion of TTT-KEM). The Boneh and Naor traitor tracing scheme is a
threshold traitor tracing scheme in this sense, and hence our construction in
Sect. 4 will also share the same property. For scenarios in which this assumption
may be unwanted, Zhandry [61] presented a general compiler that transforms
any threshold traitor tracing scheme to a non-threshold one, without changing
the dependency of the scheme’s parameters on the number n of parties. His
compilation carries over to our setting.
4
Traitor Tracing from Bipartite Threshold KEM
In this section, we construct a traitor tracing threshold KEM scheme. We begin
with a brief overview.
Overview of the Construction. The starting point of our construction is the
(non-threshold) traitor tracing PKE scheme of Boneh and Naor [14] and Billet
and Phan [6]. Their construction relies on a primitive called ﬁngerprinting codes
[20,58]. A (binary) ﬁngerprinting code is a set of words Γ = { ¯w(1), . . . , ¯w(n)},
where each ¯w(j) is an ℓ-bit string. What makes ﬁngerprinting codes special is
that they come equipped with a tracing algorithm Trace that has the following
functionality. Say that an adversary is in possession of a subset W ⊆Γ of words,
and it comes up with a word ¯w. It can decide on ¯w as it pleases but there is a
stipulation: ¯w has to be constructable by mixing and matching the bits of the
words in W. That is, if for some index i, the ith bit of all words in W is 0, then
the ith bit of ¯w must be 0 as well (and similarly if the ith bit of all words is 1).
Call such a word feasible for W. The guarantee of ﬁngerprinting codes is that
Trace can trace ¯w back to least one of the words in W.
Equipped with such a code Γ, Boneh and Naor constructed a traitor tracing
scheme from any public key encryption scheme E. The idea is to generate 2ℓkey
pairs for E, where ℓis the length of the words in Γ. The public key consists of
all 2ℓpublic keys, and can be seen as a matrix with ℓrows and two columns in
which jth row is (pkj,0, pkj,1) for j = 1, . . . , ℓ. Denote the secret key associated
with these public keys by (skj,0, skj,1). To decide on the secret keys, Boneh and
Naor associate the ith party with the ith word in the code, ¯w(i). The secret key
of party i is then (sk1,w(i)
1 , . . . , skℓ,w(i)
ℓ) where ¯w(i) = w(i)
1 . . . w(i)
ℓ. To encrypt a
message m, one chooses a random index j ←
$ [ℓ], and encrypts m under both pkj,0
and pkj,1 to obtain to ciphertexts c0 and c1. The ﬁnal ciphertext is c = (j, c0, c1).
Note that any party with a secret key can decrypt either c0 or c1.
Tracing relies on the observation that, thanks to the semantic security of E,
a coalition of parties holding only skj,0 cannot distinguish between an honestly
generated ciphertext (c0, c1) and a ciphertext (c0, c′
1) where c1 is an encryption
to some random message m′. The same goes for a coalition holding only skj,1.
This observation can be used to extract a word ¯w∗(D) from a pirate decoder

330
D. Boneh et al.
D with the property that ¯w∗(D) is feasible for the set of words associated with
the corrupted coalition. Hence, we can rely on the tracing algorithm of the
ﬁngerprinting code to trace D back to one of the corrupted parties.
Now let us try and extend the approach of Boneh and Naor to the threshold
setting. A naive attempt would be to replace the use of the public key encryp-
tion E with a threshold decrpytion scheme. Immediately, we can see that this
approach runs into a correctness issue. The problem is this: say that a coalition
of t parties wants to decrypt some ciphertext c = (j, c0, c1). It may very well be
the case that some parties can compute decryption shares for c0 and others can
compute decryption shares for c1. These decryption shares do not match and
hence do not allow the decryption of c.
It turns out that what we need is a new kind of threshold decryption that we
call “bipartite threshold decryption”. Loosely speaking, we can think of bipartite
threshold decryption as having two-sided ciphertexts (c0, c1), and each party is
given a secret key that can decrypt either c0 or c1. Moreover, it should satisfy
two seemingly contradicting requirements:
– One-sided security: An adversary that holds only keys that can partially
decrypt c0 should not be able to distinguish between an honestly generated
ciphertext (c0, c1) and a ciphertext (c0, c′
1) where c1 is an encryption to some
random message m′ (an analogous condition should hold if the adversary can
only partially decrypt c1). This property, which we call one-sided security, is
necessary for the tracing argument to go through and it is satisﬁed by the
naive construction above. Informally speaking, one-sided security implies that
c0 and c1 must be computationally independent from the standpoint of
such an adversary.
– Two-sided correctness: Still, any coalition holding t secret keys must be
able to decrypt c to recover the encrypted message. This should hold regard-
less of how many of these keys can decrypt c0 and how many can decrypt
c1. This condition, which we call two-sided correctness, is necessary for cor-
rectness to hold, and it implies that conditioned on the public key, c0 and
c1 must be correlated somehow. This condition is not met by the naive
construction.
We formally deﬁne bipartite encryption in Sect. 4.1, where for convenience,
we focus on KEM rather than PKE. The formal deﬁnition addresses several tech-
nical aspects that are ignored in this informal overview. In Sect. 4.2 we construct
a traitor tracing scheme for threshold KEM from such a bipartite threshold KEM
and ﬁngerprinting codes and prove its security. In our case, the correlation that
must be introduced between the two parts of the ciphertext introduces some
subtleties to the security proofs that were not covered in this overview.
In Sect. 5 we show that even though our requirements of bipartite threshold
KEM might seem contradictory at ﬁrst glance, they can be constructed and even
eﬃciently. First, we formally deﬁne the building blocks for our traitor tracing
scheme.

Accountability for Misbehavior in Threshold Decryption
331
4.1
Building Blocks
Our construction of a traitor tracing threshold KEM, a TTT-KEM, relies on
two building blocks: a collusion resistant ﬁngerprinting code [20,58] and a new
notion we call a bipartite threshold KEM. We explain each in turn.
Collusion Resistant Fingerprinting Codes. Originally, collusion-resistant
ﬁngerprinting codes (or ﬁngerprinting codes for short) were introduced for ﬁn-
gerprinting digital content [20,58] but they have found applications to traitor
tracing as well (e.g., [14,27,39]). In order to present ﬁngerprinting codes, we ﬁrst
introduce some notation. A word ¯w ∈{0, 1}ℓis a binary string, and we use wi
to denote the ith letter of ¯w for i = 1, . . . , ℓ; that is ¯w = w1w2 . . . wℓ. A noisy
word is a ternary string ¯w ∈{0, 1, ‘?’}ℓ, and we similarly write ¯w = w1w2 . . . wℓ
where each wi is in {0, 1, ‘?’}.
Let W = { ¯w(1), . . . , ¯w(f)} be a set of words in {0, 1}ℓ. We say that a noisy
word ¯w∗is feasible for W if for all i ∈[ℓ], either wi = ‘?’ or there is a j ∈[f]
such that w∗
i = w(j)
i . That is, if all the words in W have 0 as their ith bit, then
¯w∗must have either 0 or ‘?’ in its ith bit as well (the analogous condition should
for 1). For example, if W = {00110, 10100}, then the words that are feasible for
W are 00100, 00110, 10100, 10110 and any word obtained from any of these four
by replacing a subset of the bits with ‘?’. For a set W of words, the feasible set
for W, denoted F(W), is the set of all noisy words feasible for W. For δ ∈[0, 1],
we say that a word is δ-noisy if at most a δ-fraction of its characters is ‘?’, and
for a set W of words we denote Fδ(W) = { ¯w ∈F(W) :
¯w is δ-noisy}.
Formally, a ﬁngerprinting code is a pair C = (FCGen, FCTrace) of algo-
rithms:
– FCGen(1n, ϵ, δ) →(Γ, tk) is the probabilistic code generation algorithm.
It takes in a number n > 0 of words, a security parameter ϵ, and a noise
bound δ. It outputs a code Γ, which is a set of n words in {0, 1}ℓ, and a
tracing key tk. The length ℓof the code words is a function ℓ= ℓ(n, ϵ, δ) of
the code size n, the security parameter ϵ, and the noise bound δ.
– FCTrace( ¯w∗, tk) →S is the deterministic tracing algorithm. It takes as
input a noisy word ¯w∗and the tracing key tk, and outputs a subset S of [n].
The security property of ﬁngerprinting codes says that if an adversary in
possession of a subset W ⊆Γ of codewords generates a δ-noisy word ¯w∗which
is feasible for W (that is, ¯w∗∈Fδ(W)), then FCTrace( ¯w∗, tk) outputs a set S
that corresponds to a non-empty subset of W. This is formally captured by the
security game in Fig. 4, which is parameterized by n, ϵ, δ, and the subset I of
indices that deﬁnes the subset W of words given to the adversary.
Deﬁnition 4.1. A ﬁngerprinting code C is said to be fully collusion resistant
if for all algorithms A, all n > 0, all ϵ ∈(0, 1], all δ ∈[0, 1], and all subsets
I ⊆[n] it holds that
Advcr
A,C(n, I, ϵ, δ) := Pr[ExpFCA,C(n, I, ϵ, δ) = 1] < ϵ.

332
D. Boneh et al.
Fig. 4. The security experiment for a ﬁngerprinting code C and an adversary A. The
integer n indicates the number of words in the code, the subset I ⊆[n] the set of
corrupted codewords, the parameter ϵ ∈[0, 1] speciﬁes the desired error bound on the
tracing success, and δ ∈[0, 1] the fraction of unknown (‘?’) locations.
Known Constructions. The ﬁngerprinting codes we use, that allow for tracing
even in the presence of a bounded fraction of unknown bits (represented by ‘?’
symbols), are called robust ﬁngerprinting codes. These were originally intro-
duced by Boneh and Naor [14], who constructed the ﬁrst such codes based
on Boneh-Shaw codes [19]. Their construction achieved codewords of length
O(n4 log(n/ϵ) log(1/ϵ)/(1 −δ)2), where n is the number of words in the code, ϵ
is the tracing error, and δ is an upper bound on the fraction of ‘?’ in the noisy
word that is given to the tracing algorithm. This was later improved by Nuida
[46] and by Boneh, Kiayias, and Montgomery [13]. The latter work is based on
Tardos codes [58] and enjoys codewords of length O((n log n)2 log(n/ϵ)/(1 −δ)).
This is optimal up to logarithmic factors.
Bipartite Threshold KEM. The second building block that we will use is a
new notion that we put forth, called a bipartite threshold KEM scheme, or
a BT-KEM scheme for short. A BT-KEM scheme is a threshold KEM scheme,
where instead of one set of secret keys, there are 2ℓsets, for a parameter ℓof the
scheme. We think of these keys as arranged in 2ℓrows, or “positions”, and in each
position, there are two possible secret keys for each party: a left key and a right
key. Similarly, a ciphertext is now comprised of two parts: a left ciphertext and
a right ciphertext. A BT-KEM should satisfy two properties: one-sided security
and two-sided correctness.
Formally, A BT-KEM is a tuple (KeyGen, Enc, Dec, Combine) of algorithms
with the following syntax:
– KeyGen(1λ, n, t, ℓ) →(pk, pkc, {(sk(j)
1,0, sk(j)
1,1), . . . , (sk(j)
n,0, sk(j)
n,1)}j∈[ℓ]) is the
probabilistic key generation algorithm. It takes in the security parameter
λ ∈N, the number n of decryptors, the threshold t, and a number ℓof “posi-
tions”. It outputs a public key pk, a combiner public key pkc, and n secret keys
sk1, . . . , skn. Each secret key is made up of 2ℓkeys: ski = {sk(j)
i,0 , sk(j)
i,1 }j∈[ℓ]

Accountability for Misbehavior in Threshold Decryption
333
for i = 1, . . . , n. sk(j)
i,0 is called the left secret key of i at position j and sk(j)
i,1
is called the right secret key of i at position j.
– Enc(pk, j) →(c0, c1, k) is the probabilistic encapsulation algorithm. It
takes as input the public key pk and a position j ∈[ℓ], and it outputs a
ciphertext c = (c0, c1) and a key k. c0 is called the left ciphertext and c1 is
called the right ciphertext.
– Dec(j, sk(j)
i,b , c = (c0, c1)) →di is the deterministic decryption algorithm. It
takes in a decryptor’s secret key sk(j)
i,b —where i ∈[n], j ∈[ℓ], and b ∈{0, 1}—
and a ciphertext c, and its output is a decryption share di of c under sk(j)
i,b .
To simplify notation, we may assume sk(j)
i,b encodes the bit b even if this is
not explicitly noted.
– Combine(pkc, j, c, J , {di}i∈J ) →k/⊥is the deterministic combiner algo-
rithm. Its input is a combiner public key pkc, a position j ∈[ℓ], a ciphertext
c, a subset J of [n], and decryption shares {di}i∈J . It outputs either a key k
or a rejection symbol ⊥.
Deﬁnition 4.2 (correctness). A BT-KEM scheme E = (KeyGen, Enc, Dec,
Combine) is said to be correct if for every polynomially-bounded functions
n = n(λ), t = t(λ), and ℓ= ℓ(λ) of the security parameter λ ∈N the fol-
lowing holds:
For all λ ∈N, positions j ∈[ℓ], subsets J ⊆[n] of size t(λ), and n-bit strings
s ∈{0, 1}n it holds that
Pr
⎡
⎢⎢⎢⎣k = k′ :
(pk, pkc, {(sk(j)
1,0, sk(j)
1,1), . . . , (sk(j)
n,0, sk(j)
n,1)}j∈[ℓ]) ←
$ KeyGen(1λ, n, t)
(c, k) ←
$ Enc(pk, j)
di ←Dec(j, sk(j)
i,si, c) for i ∈J
k′ ←Combine(pkc, j, c, J , {di}i∈J )
⎤
⎥⎥⎥⎦= 1.
Semantic Security. We require that a BT-KEM scheme satisﬁes semantic secu-
rity. Observe that any BT-KEM scheme can be seen as a standard threshold
KEM scheme with additional syntactic properties, and so semantic security is
already deﬁned in Sect. 2, with the following modiﬁcations to the IND-CPA
security experiment:
– In addition to n and t, the adversary A also chooses the number ℓof positions.
– The secret key of party i is made up of all of its 2ℓsecret keys – the left key
and the right key of each position. That is,
ski =

(sk(1)
i,0 , sk(1)
i,1 ), . . . , (sk(ℓ)
i,0, sk(ℓ)
i,1)

.
– The challenge ciphertext is computed by the challenger by invoking the
encapsulation algorithm with respect to a random position in [ℓ]. That is,
the challenger ﬁrst samples a uniformly random j ←
$ [ℓ], and then samples
(c = (c0, c1), k) ←
$ Enc(pk, j).

334
D. Boneh et al.
One-Sided Security. In addition, we require that a BT-KEM scheme satisﬁes
“one-sided security” as discussed at the beginning of this section. The security
game for one-sided security is given in Fig. 5 and the security notion is formally
captured by the following deﬁnition.
Deﬁnition 4.3. We say that E has one-sided security if for every probabilistic
polynomial time adversary A, the following function is negligible in λ:
Advoss
A,E(λ) :=


2 Pr[ExpBTKEMA,E(λ) = 1] −1


 .
Observe that ExpBTKEMA,E(λ) in Fig. 5 is deﬁned by two cases that are
not entirely symmetric. When the adversary chooses d = 0, then it receives a key
k(0) and a left ciphertext c(0)
0
that is consistent with it. Its task is to distinguish
between the case in which c1 given to it is also consistent with k(0) and c(0)
0
(that
is c1 = c(0)
1 ), and the case where c1 is an independent right ciphertext (c1 = c(1)
1 ).
On the other hand, when d = 1, the adversary receives a key k(0), and a right
ciphertext c(1)
1
that is independent of this key. Its task is to distinguish between
the case in which c0 is consistent with k(0) (but not with c(1)
1 ; that is c0 = c(0)
0 ),
and the case where c0 is consistent with c(1)
1
(and is independent of k(0); that is
c0 = c(1)
0 ). The reason for the asymmetry between d = 0 and d = 1 will become
apparent in our construction of a traitor tracing threshold KEM from BT-KEM,
and its proof of security (Sect. 4.2).
Fig. 5. The one-sided security experiment for a BT-KEM E and an adversary A.
4.2
Our Construction of a Traitor Tracing Threshold KEM
Equipped with the above two building blocks, we are now ready to present our
construction of a TTT-KEM.

Accountability for Misbehavior in Threshold Decryption
335
Let BT E = (BT E.KeyGen, BT E.Enc, BT E.Dec, BT E.Combine) be a bipartite
threshold decryption scheme and let C = (C.FCGen, C.FCTrace) be a collusion-
resistant ﬁngerprinting code. Assume for simplicity that the keys outputted by
BT E are uniformly distributed over its key space K.2 Our construction uses the
following subroutine, TR that takes in a public key pk, an index j ∈[ℓ], an
integer N, and three bits bk, b0, b1 ∈{0, 1}, and has oracle access to a decoder
D. The subroutine TRD is deﬁned as follows:
1. Set ctr ←0.
2. For r = 1, . . . , N:
(a) Sample (c(0) = (c(0)
0 , c(0)
1 ), k(0)) ←
$ BT E.Enc(pk, j) and (c(1) = (c(1)
0 , c(1)
1 ),
k(1)) ←
$ BT E.Enc(pk, j).
(b) Set c∗←(j, c(b0)
0
, c(b1)
1
).
(c) Query D on (c∗, k(bk)). If the response is 1, set ctr ←ctr + 1.
3. Return ctr.
Our TTT-KEM scheme, denoted T T T E, is deﬁned in Fig. 6. Tracing is done
in two steps. First, the tracing algorithm constructs a word ¯w ∈{0, 1}ℓ, with
the supposed invariant that if the adversary only corrupts parties with left
(resp. right) keys in position j, then wj = 0 (resp. wj = 1). Then, it invokes the
FCTrace algorithm of the underlying ﬁngerprinting code on ¯w. Note that there
is an asymmetry in the tracing algorithm. To determine whether the adversary
has only right keys for a position j (i.e. whether wj should be 1), we run the
decoder with two types of inputs: (a) a random key and a ciphertext valid with
respect to this key and (b) a random key with a valid left ciphertext and an
invalid (independent) right ciphertext, and check if it can distinguish between
them. But the procedure to determine whether to set wj to 0 is not entirely sym-
metric. We see if the decoder can distinguish between the following two types
of inputs: (a) a random key and invalid left and right ciphertexts, and (b) a
random key with a valid left ciphertext and an invalid right ciphertext, i.e. the
right ciphertext is invalid in both types of inputs. This asymmetry in the inputs
to the decoder for the two cases utilizes the asymmetry in the one-sided security
game deﬁned in Fig. 5. The formal argument uses one-sided security to relate the
advantage of the adversary in breaking the tracing security of our scheme, to its
advantage in breaking the tracing security of an idealized scheme, in which the
tracing algorithm depends on the identity of the corrupted parties. The reader
is referred to the proof of Theorem 4.4 for more detail.
It is immediate that construction is correct and semantically secure, by the
correctness and semantic security of the underlying BT-KEM. The following
theorem establishes that it also provides tracing.
2 This assumption will be satisﬁed by our constructions of BT-KEM schemes. Gen-
erally speaking, note that given a BT-KEM scheme not satisfying the assumption,
we can always construct a scheme for which this condition is satisﬁed by applying a
randomness extractor to the key.

336
D. Boneh et al.
Fig. 6. Our TTT-KEM scheme, denoted T T T E, built from a ﬁngerprinting code and
a BT-KEM.

Accountability for Misbehavior in Threshold Decryption
337
Theorem 4.4. For every probabilistic polynomial time algorithm A there exists
a probabilistic polynomial-time algorithm B such that
Advtt
A,T T T E(λ) ≤9ℓ· 2−λ/24 + 2ℓλ2 · Advoss
B,BT E(λ)
for all λ ∈N, where ℓ= ℓ(λ, n, ϵ) is the codeword length as deﬁned in the scheme.
We stress that our deﬁnition of decoders is much more general than the one
originally considered by Boneh and Naor [14]. Whereas they considered tracing
decoders that fully decrypt with high probability, we consider (in line with more
modern deﬁnition of traitor tracing) tracing any decoder that can learn any
non-trivial information regarding the plaintext (via a semantic security type
deﬁnition). This on its own poses new technical challenges that require new
technical insight in the security proof.
Due to space limitations, the proof of Theorem 4.4 is given in the full version
of the paper [16, Sec. 4.2].
5
Constructing Bipartite Threshold KEM
In this section, we construct BT-KEM schemes from various assumptions: the
stronger the assumption, the more eﬃcient the BT-KEM construction is, and
hence also the resulting TTT-KEM scheme.
Before turning to our eﬃcient constructions, we note that one can fairly easily
construct a BT-KEM scheme from any threshold KEM scheme. The construction
is rather ineﬃcient, since the keys and the ciphertext scale linearly with the
threshold t. We sketch this construction in the full version [16, App. A].
5.1
Constant-Size Ciphertexts from DDH
Although the parameters achieved by the generic construction are non-trivial, it
still suﬀers from long ciphertexts. In this section, we show how to construct a BT-
KEM scheme with constant-size ciphertexts by relying on the DDH assumption
in cyclic groups. For asymptotic reasoning, we consider a distribution ensemble
over such groups. This is formalized by the existence of a group generation
algorithm G that takes the security parameter as input and outputs a triple
(G, g, p), where G is a description of a group of order p generated by g. The
scheme is formally deﬁned in Fig. 7.
Correctness. Let 0 < t < n and let ℓ> 0. Let J be a subset of size t of [n].
Then, for all j ∈[ℓ], i ∈[n], and ¯τ ∈{0, 1}n it holds that

338
D. Boneh et al.
Fig. 7. Our BT-KEM in cyclic groups, denoted BT DDH.

i∈J
d
λJ
i
i
=

i∈J ,τi=0
d
λJ
i
i
·

i∈J ,τi=1
d
λJ
i
i
=

i∈J ,τi=0

Y r
j
sj,iλJ
i /yj ·

i∈J ,τi=1

Zr
j
sj,iλJ
i /zj
=

i∈J ,τi=0
(gyjr)sj,iλJ
i /yj ·

i∈J ,τi=1
(gzjr)sj,iλJ
i /zj
=

i∈J
(gr)λJ
i sj,i = gr·
i∈J λJ
i sj,i = gxjr = Xr
j = k.
And so every subset of t parties can decapsulate the correct key k, regardless of
how many left keys and how many right keys there are.

Accountability for Misbehavior in Threshold Decryption
339
One-Sided Security. The one-sided security of the scheme is based on the hard-
ness of the following formulation of the Decisional Diﬃe-Hellman (DDH) problem
relative to G.
Deﬁnition 5.1. Let G be a group generation algorithm. We say that the Deci-
sional Diﬃe-Hellman (DDH) problem is hard relative to G if for every proba-
bilistic polynomial-time algorithm A, the following function
Advddh
A,G(λ) :=



Pr

A(G, p, g,⃗h, gxy) = 1

−Pr

A(G, p, g,⃗h, gxy′) = 1



is negligible in λ ∈N, where (G, p, g) ←
$ G(1λ) and ⃗h = (gx, gy, gy′) for x, y, y′ ←
$
Zp.
Note that this is not the standard formulation of the DDH assumption, but
is easily reducible to it.
Theorem 5.2. For every probabilistic polynomial-time adversary A there exists
a probabilistic polynomial-time adversary B such that
Advddh
B,G(λ) = Advoss
A,BT DDH(λ)
for all λ ∈N.
The proof of Theorem 5.2 can be found in the full version of the paper [16,
Sec. 5.1].
Semantic Security. We now argue the semantic security of the scheme, which is
also based on the DDH assumption. Here, we rely on the standard formulation
of the DDH assumption: given gα, gβ, gγ for α, β ←
$ Zp, it should be hard to
distinguish between the case where γ = αβ and γ being uniformly random and
independent of (α, β).
Theorem 5.3. For every probabilistic polynomial-time adversary A there exists
a probabilistic polynomial-time adversary B such that
Advddh
B,G(λ) = Advcpa
A,BT DDH(λ)
for all λ ∈N.
The proof of Theorem 5.3 is in the full version [16].
5.2
Constant-Size Ciphertexts and Public Keys from Pairings
In this section, we show that by relying on pairings, one can obtain a BT-KEM
scheme with a constant-size public key, in addition to a constant-size ciphertext.
Formally, we consider a bilinear group generation algorithm G that takes
in the security parameter and outputs a tuple (G1, G2, GT , e, g1, g2, p), where
G1, G2, GT are descriptions of cyclic groups of order p, where Gb is generated

340
D. Boneh et al.
by gb for b = 0, 1. The function e is an eﬃciently computable non-degenerate
bilinear map from G1 × G2 to GT . Though we will present our construction in
asymmetric bilinear groups (in which G1 and G2 may be diﬀerent), it remains
secure in symmetric groups as well (under the same assumptions in symmetric
bilinear groups, when G1 = G2 and g1 = g2). The construction also uses two
hash function H1 : N →G1 and H2 : GT →{0, 1}λ. Formally, H1 and H2 should
depend on the speciﬁc bilinear group, but to simplify the notation we ﬁx a single
pair of functions H1, H2 for all groups.
The scheme is presented in Fig. 8. We next prove correctness and security of this
scheme.
Correctness. Let 0 < t < n and let ℓ> 0. As noted in Fig. 8, for a ciphertext
with respect to position j ∈[ℓ], the decryption share di of party i ∈[n] is
di = e(g1, g2)siyzr, regardless of whether party i has a left key or a right key for
position j. Hence, by the correctness of Lagrange interpolation, it holds that for
any subset J of parties of size at least t, the combined decryption is e(g1, g2)αyzr,
and it’s hash is precisely the encapsulated key.
One-Sided Security. We now prove the one-sided security of BT BF. One-sided
security follows from the following DDH-like assumption.
Deﬁnition 5.4. Let G be a bilinear group generation algorithm. We say that
the Augmented Decisional Diﬃe-Hellman problem (ADDH) is hard relative to
the source group of G if for every probabilistic polynomial-time algorithm A the
following function
Advaddh
A,G (λ) :=






Pr

A

(G1, G2, GT , e, p),⃗h, gzr+wt
1

= 1

−Pr

A

(G1, G2, GT , e, p),⃗h, gzr′+wt
1

= 1







is negligible in λ ∈N, where (G1, G2, GT , e, g1, g2, p) ←
$ G(1λ) and
⃗h =

g1, g2, gw
1 , gz
1, gy
1, gyz
1 , gyr
1 , gwz
1 , gz
2, gy
2, gt
2, e(g1, g2)yzr′ 
for y, z, w, t, r, r′ ←
$ Zp.
The ADDH problem deﬁned above can be seen as a special case of the Uber
problem in bilinear groups [8,24]. Also note that there is no trivial zero-test
involving the “target element”, gzr+wt
1
or gzr′+wt
1
, that can be trivially computed
via group operations and the pairing operation from the other input elements,
namely the elements in ⃗h. Therefore, the ADDH problem is hard in the generic
group model [8,54] and its hardness is reducible to that of the standard discrete
log problem in the (decisional) algebraic group model [3,32,51,52].
The following theorem reduces the one-sided security of BT BF to the hard-
ness of ADDH in the pairing groups.

Accountability for Misbehavior in Threshold Decryption
341
Fig. 8. Our BT-KEM scheme in pairing groups, denoted BT BF.

342
D. Boneh et al.
Theorem 5.5. For every probabilistic polynomial-time adversary A there exists
a probabilistic polynomial-time adversary B such that
Advoss
A,BT BF(λ) ≤2L · Advaddh
B,G (λ),
for all λ ∈N, where the hash function H1 is modeled as a random oracle, and
L = L(λ) is an upper bound on the number of positions ℓin the scheme.
Theorem 5.5 is proven in the full version of the paper [16].
Semantic Security. We now argue the semantic security of BT BF, relying on the
following variant of the Computational Bilinear Diﬃe-Hellman (CBDH) assump-
tion.
Deﬁnition 5.6. Let G be a bilinear group generation algorithm. We say that the
Augmented Computational Bilinear Diﬃe-Hellman (ACBDH) problem is hard
relative to G if for every probabilistic polynomial-time algorithm A the following
function
Advacbdh
A,G (λ) := Pr

A

(G1, G2, GT , p, g1, g2, e),⃗h

= e(g1, g2)αyzr
is negligible in λ ∈N, where (G1, G2, GT , p, g1, g2, e) ←
$ G(1λ) and
⃗h = (gy
1, gz
1, gyr
1 , gzr
1 , gαyz
1
, gy
2, gz
2)
for α, r, z, y, v ←
$ Zp.
The following theorem establishes the semantic security of BT BF.
Theorem 5.7. For every probabilistic polynomial-time adversary A there exists
a probabilistic polynomial-time adversary B such that
Advcpa
A,BT BF(λ) ≤q2 · Advacbdh
B,G
(λ)
for all λ ∈N, when the hash functions H1, H2 are modeled as random oracles
and q2 = q2(λ) is a bound on the number of H2-queries issued by A.
The proof of Theorem 5.7 can be found in the full version of the paper [16].
6
The Case of Small Traitor Coalitions
In this section, we consider the setting in which the traitor coalition is small;
namely, there are f < t traitors, where t is the decryption threshold as before. We
begin with a brief overview of the challenges that this setting poses and ways to
circumvent them. Due to space limitations, formal deﬁnitions and constructions
for the small traitor coalition case are deferred to the full version of the paper [16].
In this informal discussion, we omit many technical details that can be found in
the full version.

Accountability for Misbehavior in Threshold Decryption
343
In the small coalition setting, we would like to capture the scenario in which
the traitor coalition publishes or sells any piece of information that might be
useful for decryption by another set of parties. To be as general as possible,
we model this information as a decoder D that receives additional decryption
shares for some ciphertext c. When the decoder receives enough information to
decrypt, it outputs the encrypted message m. The decoder may be tied to a
speciﬁc ciphertext c and only decrypt this ciphertext, or it may be a general
decoder that gets also a ciphertext c as input and tries to decrypt it.3 We focus
on decoders that are tied to a speciﬁc ciphertext, but the same problems and
solutions arise in both cases. As a concrete example, think of a decoder D that
has a ciphertext c and the secret keys of the f < t corrupted parties embedded
in it. Whenever it gets t −f decryption shares from additional parties as input,
it decrypts and outputs the message. If it does not get enough information to
decrypt, it outputs ⊥. Given black-box access to such a decoder, we would like
to trace it back to at least one of the corrupted parties.
Unfortunately, if we allow for arbitrary decoders, then for robust schemes
(where in particular, shares can be publicly traced to their generating party),
eﬃcient tracing becomes hopeless for most choices of f and t. The issue arises
already with the simple decoder D described above that has a subset I of f
keys embedded in it, if it is restricted to accept exactly t −f shares as input.
If it gets more shares than that as input, it refuses to decrypt and outputs ⊥.
Denote this decoder by DI. Intuitively, to extract any meaningful information
from the decoder, we need to make it work; i.e., output something other than
⊥. Now consider the distribution over decoders that are deﬁned as above, where
the subset I is sampled uniformly at random from all subsets of [n] of size f. In
this case, we prove the following lower bound.
Theorem 6.1 (informal). If the underlying threshold decryption scheme is
robust, then for any algorithm B making at most Q oracle queries to DI, the
probability that DI returns anything but ⊥is bounded by
Q
(
n
f)−Q·(
n−(t−f)
f
).
As an example, consider the setting where t = n/3 and f = t/2. In this case,
the probability of making DI output something other than ⊥is bounded by
Q · 2−Ω(n). Hence, an exponential number of queries to DI are required to even
make it work. In the full version [16, App. B], we make this theorem precise and
provide a proof.
In light of the above, we explore two restricted classes of decoders that still
capture meaningful traitor attacks on the one hand, yet allow for some mean-
ingful notion of accountability on the other hand.
Option I: A decoder that can decrypt, must. The reason the decoder D sketched
above was untraceable, was that it could choose to reject any input that
3 Note that in the case where f ≥t it makes no sense to consider decoders that are
tied to a speciﬁc ciphertext c. This is because when f ≥t the traitor coalition can
just decrypt c and publish the underlying message m as the decoder. This “decoder”
is trivially untraceable.

344
D. Boneh et al.
consisted of more than t −f shares. A natural question is then what happens
if we disallow such behavior on the side of the decoder? Concretely, we consider
here a restricted class of decoders: a decoder D = D(I) is associated with some
subset I of corrupted parties, and if the decoder is fed decryption shares from
a subset S of parties, it outputs the correct message whenever |I ∪S| ≥t. This
means that the decoder may output the correct message also on inputs that
include up to t, and in particular more than t −f, decryption shares. We call
such decoders universal. Though (unavoidably) restricted, this class of decoders
already captures natural forms of information leakage, such as leaking the secret
keys of the parties in I or their decryption shares of a speciﬁc ciphertext c (or
malformed keys/decryption shares, that still allow decryption).
We show that with this restriction on the decoder, tracing becomes possible.
We present a tracing procedure that can be seen as the mirror image of tracing
using private linear broadcast encryption [18]. By semantic security, we know
that when the decoder D gets no decryption share as input, it should output the
correct message with negligible probability. On the other hand, when given any
t decryption shares d1, . . . , dt as input, any universal decoder should output the
correct message, say with probability 1 (in the full version, we relax this notion
and consider probabilistic decoders). This means that there must be some index
i ∈[t] such that D(d1, . . . , di) outputs the correct message, but D(d1, . . . , di−1)
does not. Since D is universal, we may deduce that {d1, . . . , di−1} is insuﬃcient
information for D to decrypt, but {d1, . . . , di} is. Hence it must be the case that
party i is innocent, in the sense that it is not a member of the subset I of cor-
rupted parties that deﬁne the universal decoder D = D(I). Feeding the subsets
∅, {d1}, {d1, d2}, . . . , {d1, . . . , dt} to D one by one, we are guaranteed to ﬁnd this
i. Moreover, we show that by repeating this procedure, we can “exonerate” all
innocent parties in {1, . . . , t}. The full tracing algorithm is obtained by doing
the same for all subsets {1, . . . , t}, {t + 1, . . . , 2t}, . . . , {n −t + 1, . . . , n}.
Option II: Conﬁrmation Instead of Tracing. The tracing procedure above cru-
cially relied on the fact that the decoder works for inputs consisting of a variable
number of decryption shares. More clever decoders might try to avoid detection
by insisting that the decoder takes in exactly t −f decryption shares as input.
This can be done, for example, by hard-coding the traitors’ secret keys to the
decryption circuit and obfuscating it. By the lower bound result sketched above,
in this setting we cannot hope for full-ﬂedged traitor tracing. Instead, we explore
the task of “traitor conﬁrmation”: given knowledge of the traitor coalition I that
manufactured some decoder D (and possibly some trapdoor information) the
task is to create a publicly-veriﬁable proof that ascertains that this is indeed the
set of traitors. Both the prover and the veriﬁer are given black-box access to D.
Importantly, a malicious prover should not be able to frame an innocent party
for the creation of a decoder D. This should be the case even if the malicious
prover gets access to more than t of the parties’ secret keys. This is important,
for example, to fend against cases in which a coalition creates some decoder
D, and at a later stage obtains additional secret keys that it did not possess
when manufacturing D. If now this coalition has more than t keys, they could

Accountability for Misbehavior in Threshold Decryption
345
potentially reconstruct the keys of all n parties. Framing an innocent party that
did not partake in the creation of D should still be impossible.
Here, too, we consider decoders D = D(I) that are speciﬁed by a subset
I of corrupted parties, and must decrypt if they get decryption shares from a
disjoint subset of parties S of size t−f where f = |I|.4 But now, we do allow the
decoder to take in exactly t −f decryption shares as inputs, and refuse to work
on more shares than that. We call such decoders exact decoders. This is exactly
the decoder from the lower bound sketched above. Focusing on conﬁrmation
rather than tracing allows us to circumvent the lower bound.
Now say that we have a robust threshold decryption scheme, and want to
produce a proof that a subset I of size f < t is the corrupted subset behind some
decoder D for a ciphertext c. The ﬁrst idea that comes to mind is to include in
the proof the decryption shares {dj}j∈[n]\I of c of all parties outside of I. To
verify, one partitions these into k ≈(n−f)/(t−f) subsets S1, . . . , Sk, each of size
t−f, feeds these to D one by one, and asserts that D outputs the correct message
m every time. If I is indeed the corrupted subset underlying D, then veriﬁcation
will indeed go through. However, there is a problem. This conﬁrmation system is
completely insecure and is susceptible to framing! As a small example, consider
the case n = 6 and t = 4, and an adversary that corrupts the subset I = {1, 3, 5}
and constructs the decoder D = D({1, 3, 5}). This adversary can later claim
that the corrupted set of parties is in fact the set J = {1, 4} and as proof gives
the decryption shares of the other parties π = {d2, d3, d5, d6}. Veriﬁcation will
now go through since both D(d2, d3) and D(d5, d6) have enough information to
decrypt. The issue here is that the adversary can lie about the number f of
corrupted parties underlying the decoder.
To ﬁx this issue, the veriﬁcation procedure needs to run a few more checks.
For every subset Sj, for every party i ∈Sj, and for every party i′ in the claimed
set of traitors I, veriﬁcation will run D((Sj \ {i}) ∪{i′}). If this query returns
the correct message m, then we will reject the proof as invalid. The intuition
behind this check is that if the corrupted subset is actually larger than what is
claimed by the adversarially conjured proof, then there is a decryption share by
a corrupted party i∗in some Sj. Hence, removing it from Sj (and replacing it
with an element in I to keep the number of input shares the same) should not
aﬀect D’s ability to decrypt.
7
Conclusion and Future Directions
This work initiates the study of accountability for threshold decryption schemes,
focusing on the notion of traitor tracing for such schemes. To the best of our
knowledge, this is the ﬁrst work to consider this problem, and it gives new
deﬁnitions and constructions that satisfy them. We strongly believe that this may
open an exciting avenue for research, as there are many natural open questions
that arise from our work. We present two of them here, in the setting of tracing
large traitor coalitions.
4 This restriction is necessary due to a lower bound similar to the one described above.

346
D. Boneh et al.
Thresholdizing Additional Traitor Tracing Schemes. As we explain in
Sect. 3, a natural path to constructing a threshold decryption scheme with traitor
tracing is by converting existing traitor tracing schemes into their threshold vari-
ant. In this work, we make the ﬁrst step in this eﬀort, showing how to convert the
traitor tracing scheme of Boneh and Naor [14] to a threshold decryption scheme
that allows for traitor tracing. In the full version [16, App. B], we do the same
for the recent traitor tracing scheme of Gong, Lou, and Wee [34]. An interesting
open question is to adapt other traitor tracing schemes to the threshold setting.
Natural candidates are other schemes based on private linear broadcast encryp-
tion (PLBE) from either pairing-based assumptions [22,33,60] or lattice-based
assumptions [26,35], as well as the recent construction of Zhandry [61], which
takes a diﬀerent approach for implementing broadcast encryption with private
revocation. Extending any of these works to the threshold setting will most likely
require very diﬀerent techniques than the ones we develop in this paper.
Detecting Many Traitors. Our deﬁnition of traitor tracing (Sect. 3) requires
that the tracing algorithm Trace outputs at least one member of the traitor
coalition. This is in line with previous deﬁnitions for traitor tracing in the non-
threshold case. In the non-threshold setting, this is unavoidable: an adversary
that corrupts f > 1 parties may very well still “use” just one of their secret keys
when constructing the decoder. In threshold decryption, however, the decoder
must use – in some intuitive sense – the secret keys of at least t parties in order
to decrypt, or semantic security is broken. So one may consider a strengthening
of our deﬁnition that requires that Trace outputs at least t corrupted parties.
We observe that there is an ineﬃcient scheme that does satisfy this deﬁnition,
built from any semantically secure public key encryption E. Consider the trivial
threshold decryption scheme, in which each party i has its own secret-public key
pair (ski, pki) and the overall public key is pk = (pk1, . . . , pkn). To encrypt a
message m, we secret share m into shares s1, . . . , sn using a t-out-of-n secret shar-
ing scheme, and encrypt the ith share under pki to obtain ci ←
$ E.Enc(pki, si).
The ﬁnal ciphertext is c = (c1, . . . , cn). It is not hard to see that this scheme has
a tracing algorithm (`a la PLBE) that can ﬁnd at least t traitors given black-box
access to a good decoder. The task is to satisfy this stronger requirement—
tracing a decoder to t or more traitors—with an eﬃcient construction. The
combinatorial objects underlying most existing eﬃcient traitor tracing construc-
tions (PLBE and ﬁngerprinting codes) are speciﬁcally tailored to catch just one
traitor, and no more. So extending them to the task of catching t traitors seems
to require new ideas, and is a very interesting open question.
Distributed Key Generation. Our deﬁnition and constructions consider a
central key generation procedure. However, one could also consider a distributed
key generation protocol instead, taking place among the n decryptors and a
tracing authority. The tracing authority would only learn the information needed
to trace the decoder back to a corrupted party, and no more. In particular, in
our constructions, the trapdoor information needed for tracing would not allow
the tracing authority to break semantic security of the encryption scheme.

Accountability for Misbehavior in Threshold Decryption
347
CCA Security. Our deﬁnitions of semantic security only consider chosen plain-
text (CPA) attacks. However, for applications such as auctions or encrypted
mempools, it might be important to consider a stronger attack model where
the adversary is allowed to see decryptions of arbitrary ciphertexts of its choice,
i.e. Chosen Ciphertext attacks. We leave the task of constructing a CCA-secure
threshold decryption with traitor tracing as an interesting future direction.
Public Tracing. As mentioned in Sect. 3, our constructions only support private
tracing since an adversary can evade tracing if the tracing key gets leaked. Many
works on the related notion of traitor tracing construct public tracing schemes
(see [36,45] and the references therein), where the tracing key is public. An
interesting open question is to adapt the techniques from these works to achieve
public tracing in the threshold setting.
Acknowledgments. This work was funded by NSF, DARPA, the Simons Foundation,
UBRI, and NTT Research. Opinions, ﬁndings, and conclusions or recommendations
expressed in this material are those of the authors and do not necessarily reﬂect the
views of DARPA.
References
1. Asayag, A., et al.: Helix: a scalable and fair consensus algorithm resistant to order-
ing manipulation. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2018/863 (2018). https://
eprint.iacr.org/2018/863
2. Babel, K., Daian, P., Kelkar, M., Juels, A.: Clockwork ﬁnance: automated analysis
of economic security in smart contracts. In: IEEE S&P, pp. 2499–2516. IEEE (2023)
3. Bauer, B., Fuchsbauer, G., Loss, J.: A classiﬁcation of computational assumptions
in the algebraic group model. In: Micciancio, D., Ristenpart, T. (eds.) CRYPTO
2020, Part II. LNCS, vol. 12171, pp. 121–151. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-030-56880-1 5
4. Bebel, J., Ojha, D.: Ferveo: threshold decryption for mempool privacy in BFT
networks. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2022/898 (2022). https://eprint.iacr.
org/2022/898
5. Bellare, M., Neven, G.: Multi-signatures in the plain public-key model and a general
forking lemma. In: Juels, A., Wright, R.N., De Capitani di Vimercati, S. (eds.)
ACM CCS 2006, pp. 390–399. ACM Press, Alexandria, Virginia, USA, 30 October–
3 November 2006. https://doi.org/10.1145/1180405.1180453
6. Billet, O., Phan, D.H.: Eﬃcient tracing from collusion secure codes. In: Safavi-
Naini, R. (ed.) ICITS 2008. LNCS, vol. 5155, pp. 171–182. Springer, Heidelberg
(2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-85093-9 17
7. Boldyreva, A.: Threshold signatures, multisignatures and blind signatures based
on the gap-diﬃe-hellman-group signature scheme. In: Desmedt, Y.G. (ed.) PKC
2003. LNCS, vol. 2567, pp. 31–46. Springer, Heidelberg (2003). https://doi.org/10.
1007/3-540-36288-6 3
8. Boneh, D., Boyen, X., Goh, E.-J.: Hierarchical identity based encryption with con-
stant size ciphertext. In: Cramer, R. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2005. LNCS, vol. 3494,
pp. 440–456. Springer, Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/11426639 26

348
D. Boneh et al.
9. Boneh, D., Boyen, X., Halevi, S.: Chosen ciphertext secure public key thresh-
old encryption without random oracles. In: Pointcheval, D. (ed.) CT-RSA 2006.
LNCS, vol. 3860, pp. 226–243. Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/10.
1007/11605805 15
10. Boneh, D., Drijvers, M., Neven, G.: Compact multi-signatures for smaller
blockchains. In: Peyrin, T., Galbraith, S. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2018, Part II. LNCS,
vol. 11273, pp. 435–464. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-03329-3 15
11. Boneh, D., Franklin, M.: An eﬃcient public key traitor tracing scheme. In: Wiener,
M. (ed.) CRYPTO 1999. LNCS, vol. 1666, pp. 338–353. Springer, Heidelberg
(1999). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48405-1 22
12. Boneh, D., Gentry, C., Lynn, B., Shacham, H.: Aggregate and encrypted signatures
from bilinear maps. In: Biham, E. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2003. LNCS, vol. 2656, pp.
416–432. Springer, Heidelberg (2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-39200-9 26
13. Boneh, D., Kiayias, A., Montgomery, H.W.: Robust ﬁngerprinting codes: a near
optimal construction. In: Proceedings of the Tenth Annual ACM Workshop on Dig-
ital Rights Management. DRM ’10, pp. 3–12. Association for Computing Machin-
ery, New York, NY, USA (2010). https://doi.org/10.1145/1866870.1866873
14. Boneh, D., Naor, M.: Traitor tracing with constant size ciphertext. In: Ning,
P., Syverson, P.F., Jha, S. (eds.) ACM CCS 2008, pp. 501–510. ACM Press,
Alexandria, Virginia, USA, 27–31 October 2008. https://doi.org/10.1145/1455770.
1455834
15. Boneh, D., Partap, A., Rotem, L.: Accountable threshold signatures with proactive
refresh. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2022/1656 (2022). https://eprint.iacr.
org/2022/1656
16. Boneh, D., Partap, A., Rotem, L.: Accountability for misbehavior in thresh-
old decryption via threshold traitor tracing. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper
2023/1724 (2023). https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1724
17. Boneh, D., Partap, A., Rotem, L.: Traceable secret sharing: strong security and eﬃ-
cient constructions. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2024/405 (2024). https://
eprint.iacr.org/2024/405. To be published in CRYPTO 2024
18. Boneh, D., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Fully collusion resistant traitor tracing with
short ciphertexts and private keys. In: Vaudenay, S. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2006.
LNCS, vol. 4004, pp. 573–592. Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/10.
1007/11761679 34
19. Boneh, D., Shaw, J.: Collusion-secure ﬁngerprinting for digital data (extended
abstract). In: Coppersmith, D. (ed.) CRYPTO 1995. LNCS, vol. 963, pp. 452–465.
Springer, Heidelberg (1995). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44750-4 36
20. Boneh, D., Shaw, J.: Collusion-secure ﬁngerprinting for digital data. IEEE Trans.
Inf. Theory 44(5), 1897–1905 (1998). https://doi.org/10.1109/18.705568
21. Boneh, D., Shoup, V.: A graduate course in applied cryptography (version 0.6)
(2023). cryptobook.us
22. Boneh, D., Waters, B.: A fully collusion resistant broadcast, trace, and revoke
system. In: Juels, A., Wright, R.N., De Capitani di Vimercati, S. (eds.) ACM
CCS 2006, pp. 211–220. ACM Press, Alexandria, Virginia, USA, 30 October–3
November 2006. https://doi.org/10.1145/1180405.1180432
23. Boneh, D., Zhandry, M.: Multiparty key exchange, eﬃcient traitor tracing, and
more from indistinguishability obfuscation. In: Garay, J.A., Gennaro, R. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2014, Part I. LNCS, vol. 8616, pp. 480–499. Springer, Heidelberg (2014).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-44371-2 27

Accountability for Misbehavior in Threshold Decryption
349
24. Boyen, X.: The uber-assumption family: a uniﬁed complexity framework for bilin-
ear groups. In: Galbraith, S.D., Paterson, K.G. (eds.) Pairing 2008. LNCS, vol.
5209, pp. 39–56. Springer, Heidelberg (2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-
85538-5 3
25. Canetti, R., Goldwasser, S.: An eﬃcient threshold public key cryptosystem secure
against adaptive chosen ciphertext attack (extended abstract). In: Stern, J. (ed.)
EUROCRYPT 1999. LNCS, vol. 1592, pp. 90–106. Springer, Heidelberg (1999).
https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48910-X 7
26. Chen, Y., Vaikuntanathan, V., Waters, B., Wee, H., Wichs, D.: Traitor-tracing from
LWE made simple and attribute-based. In: Beimel, A., Dziembowski, S. (eds.) TCC
2018, Part II. LNCS, vol. 11240, pp. 341–369. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-030-03810-6 13
27. Chor, B., Fiat, A., Naor, M.: Tracing traitors. In: Desmedt, Y.G. (ed.) CRYPTO
1994. LNCS, vol. 839, pp. 257–270. Springer, Heidelberg (1994). https://doi.org/
10.1007/3-540-48658-5 25
28. Cramer, R., Gennaro, R., Schoenmakers, B.: A secure and optimally eﬃcient multi-
authority election scheme. In: Fumy, W. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 1997. LNCS, vol.
1233, pp. 103–118. Springer, Heidelberg (1997). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-
69053-0 9
29. Daian, P., et al.: Flash boys 2.0: frontrunning in decentralized exchanges, miner
extractable value, and consensus instability. In: 2020 IEEE Symposium on Security
and Privacy, pp. 910–927. IEEE Computer Society Press, San Francisco, CA, USA,
18–21 May 2020. https://doi.org/10.1109/SP40000.2020.00040
30. Desmedt, Y.: Society and group oriented cryptography: a new concept. In: Pomer-
ance, C. (ed.) CRYPTO 1987. LNCS, vol. 293, pp. 120–127. Springer, Heidelberg
(1988). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48184-2 8
31. Desmedt, Y., Frankel, Y.: Threshold cryptosystems. In: Brassard, G. (ed.)
CRYPTO 1989. LNCS, vol. 435, pp. 307–315. Springer, New York (1990). https://
doi.org/10.1007/0-387-34805-0 28
32. Fuchsbauer, G., Kiltz, E., Loss, J.: The algebraic group model and its applications.
In: Shacham, H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2018, Part II. LNCS, vol. 10992,
pp. 33–62. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-96881-0 2
33. Garg, S., Kumarasubramanian, A., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Building eﬃcient
fully collusion-resilient traitor tracing and revocation schemes. In: Al-Shaer, E.,
Keromytis, A.D., Shmatikov, V. (eds.) ACM CCS 2010, pp. 121–130. ACM
Press, Chicago, Illinois, USA, 4–8 October 2010. https://doi.org/10.1145/1866307.
1866322
34. Gong, J., Luo, J., Wee, H.: Traitor tracing with N 1/3-size ciphertexts and O(1)-
size keys from k-Lin. In: Hazay, C., Stam, M. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2023, Part III.
LNCS, vol. 14006, pp. 637–668. Springer, Cham (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-031-30620-4 21
35. Goyal, R., Koppula, V., Waters, B.: Collusion resistant traitor tracing from learning
with errors. In: Diakonikolas, I., Kempe, D., Henzinger, M. (eds.) 50th ACM STOC,
pp. 660–670. ACM Press, Los Angeles, CA, USA, 25–29 June 2018. https://doi.
org/10.1145/3188745.3188844
36. Goyal, R., Koppula, V., Waters, B.: New approaches to traitor tracing with embed-
ded identities. In: Hofheinz, D., Rosen, A. (eds.) TCC 2019, Part II. LNCS, vol.
11892, pp. 149–179. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
36033-7 6

350
D. Boneh et al.
37. Goyal, V., Song, Y., Srinivasan, A.: Traceable secret sharing and applications. In:
Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) CRYPTO 2021, Part III. LNCS, vol. 12827, pp.
718–747. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84252-9 24
38. Kiayias, A., Yung, M.: On crafty pirates and foxy tracers. In: Sander, T. (ed.)
DRM 2001. LNCS, vol. 2320, pp. 22–39. Springer, Heidelberg (2002). https://doi.
org/10.1007/3-540-47870-1 3
39. Kiayias, A., Yung, M.: Traitor tracing with constant transmission rate. In: Knud-
sen, L.R. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2002. LNCS, vol. 2332, pp. 450–465. Springer, Hei-
delberg (2002). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-46035-7 30
40. Kurosawa, K., Desmedt, Y.: Optimum traitor tracing and asymmetric schemes.
In: Nyberg, K. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 1998. LNCS, vol. 1403, pp. 145–157. Springer,
Heidelberg (1998). https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0054123
41. Li, R., Li, Y., Wang, Q., Duan, S., Wang, Q., Ryan, M.: Accountable decryption
made formal and practical (2023). here
42. Micali, S., Ohta, K., Reyzin, L.: Accountable-subgroup multisignatures: extended
abstract. In: Reiter, M.K., Samarati, P. (eds.) ACM CCS 2001, pp. 245–254.
ACM Press, Philadelphia, PA, USA, 5–8 November 2001. https://doi.org/10.1145/
501983.502017
43. Naor, M., Pinkas, B.: Threshold traitor tracing. In: Krawczyk, H. (ed.) CRYPTO
1998. LNCS, vol. 1462, pp. 502–517. Springer, Heidelberg (1998). https://doi.org/
10.1007/BFb0055750
44. Nick, J., Ruﬃng, T., Seurin, Y.: MuSig2: simple two-round Schnorr multi-
signatures. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) CRYPTO 2021. LNCS, vol. 12825, pp.
189–221. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84242-0 8
45. Nishimaki, R., Wichs, D., Zhandry, M.: Anonymous traitor tracing: how to embed
arbitrary information in a key. In: Fischlin, M., Coron, J.-S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT
2016, Part II. LNCS, vol. 9666, pp. 388–419. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-49896-5 14
46. Nuida, K.: A general conversion method of ﬁngerprint codes to (more) robust
ﬁngerprint codes against bit erasure. In: Kurosawa, K. (ed.) ICITS 2009. LNCS,
vol. 5973, pp. 194–212. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-642-14496-7 16
47. Osmosis. link
48. Phan, D.H.: Traitor tracing for stateful pirate decoders with constant ciphertext
rate. In: Nguyen, P.Q. (ed.) VIETCRYPT 2006. LNCS, vol. 4341, pp. 354–365.
Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/10.1007/11958239 24
49. Qin, K., Zhou, L., Gervais, A.: Quantifying blockchain extractable value: how dark
is the forest? In: 2022 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, pp. 198–214.
IEEE Computer Society Press, San Francisco, CA, USA, 22–26 May 2022. https://
doi.org/10.1109/SP46214.2022.9833734
50. Rondelet, A., Kilbourn, Q.: Threshold encrypted mempools: limitations and con-
siderations (2023). here
51. Rotem, L.: Revisiting the uber assumption in the algebraic group model: ﬁne-
grained bounds in hidden-order groups and improved reductions in bilinear groups.
In: Dachman-Soled, D. (ed.) 3rd Conference on Information-Theoretic Cryptogra-
phy (ITC 2022), vol. 230, pp. 13:1–13:13. Schloss Dagstuhl – Leibniz-Zentrum f¨ur
Informatik, Dagstuhl, Germany (2022). https://doi.org/10.4230/LIPIcs.ITC.2022.
13, https://drops.dagstuhl.de/opus/volltexte/2022/16491

Accountability for Misbehavior in Threshold Decryption
351
52. Rotem, L., Segev, G.: Algebraic distinguishers: from discrete logarithms to deci-
sional Uber assumptions. In: Pass, R., Pietrzak, K. (eds.) TCC 2020, Part III.
LNCS, vol. 12552, pp. 366–389. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-64381-2 13
53. Sako, K.: An auction protocol which hides bids of losers. In: Imai, H., Zheng,
Y. (eds.) PKC 2000. LNCS, vol. 1751, pp. 422–432. Springer, Heidelberg (2000).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-46588-1 28
54. Shoup, V.: Lower bounds for discrete logarithms and related problems. In: Fumy,
W. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 1997. LNCS, vol. 1233, pp. 256–266. Springer, Heidelberg
(1997). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-69053-0 18
55. Shoup, V., Gennaro, R.: Securing threshold cryptosystems against chosen cipher-
text attack. In: Nyberg, K. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 1998. LNCS, vol. 1403, pp. 1–16.
Springer, Heidelberg (1998). https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0054113
56. Shutter: Preventing front running and malicious MEV on ethereum. link
57. Sirvent, T.: Traitor tracing scheme with constant ciphertext rate against powerful
pirates. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2006/383 (2006). https://eprint.iacr.
org/2006/383
58. Tardos, G.: Optimal probabilistic ﬁngerprint codes. J. ACM 55(2) (2008). https://
doi.org/10.1145/1346330.1346335, https://doi.org/10.1145/1346330.1346335
59. de Valence, H.: The Penumbra protocol. link
60. Wee, H.: Functional encryption for quadratic functions from k-Lin, revisited. In:
Pass, R., Pietrzak, K. (eds.) TCC 2020, Part I. LNCS, vol. 12550, pp. 210–228.
Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-64375-1 8
61. Zhandry, M.: New techniques for traitor tracing: size N 1/3 and more from pair-
ings. In: Micciancio, D., Ristenpart, T. (eds.) CRYPTO 2020, Part I. LNCS, vol.
12170, pp. 652–682. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
56784-2 22

