Arithmetic Sketching
Dan Boneh1(B), Elette Boyle2,3, Henry Corrigan-Gibbs4, Niv Gilboa5,
and Yuval Ishai6
1 Stanford University, Stanford, USA
dabo@cs.stanford.edu
2 Reichman University, Herzliya, Israel
eboyle@alum.mit.edu
3 NTT Research, Sunnyvale, USA
4 MIT, Cambridge, USA
henrycg@csail.mit.edu
5 Ben-Gurion University, Beersheba, Israel
gilboan@bgu.ac.il
6 Technion, Haifa, Israel
yuvali@cs.technion.ac.il
Abstract. This paper introduces arithmetic sketching, an abstraction of
a primitive that several previous works use to achieve lightweight, low-
communication zero-knowledge veriﬁcation of secret-shared vectors. An
arithmetic sketching scheme for a language L ⊆Fn consists of (1) a ran-
domized linear function compressing a long input x to a short “sketch,”
and (2) a small arithmetic circuit that accepts the sketch if and only
if x ∈L, up to some small error. If the language L has an arithmetic
sketching scheme with short sketches, then it is possible to test mem-
bership in L using an arithmetic circuit with few multiplication gates.
Since multiplications are the dominant cost in protocols for computation
on secret-shared, encrypted, and committed data, arithmetic sketching
schemes give rise to lightweight protocols in each of these settings.
Beyond the formalization of arithmetic sketching, our contributions
are:
– A general framework for constructing arithmetic sketching schemes
from algebraic varieties. This framework uniﬁes schemes from prior
work and gives rise to schemes for useful new languages and with
improved soundness error.
– The ﬁrst arithmetic sketching schemes for languages of sparse vec-
tors: vectors with bounded Hamming weight, bounded L1 norm, and
vectors whose few non-zero values satisfy a given predicate.
– A method for “compiling” any arithmetic sketching scheme for a
language L into a low-communication malicious-secure multi-server
protocol for securely testing that a client-provided secret-shared vec-
tor is in L.
We also prove the ﬁrst nontrivial lower bounds showing limits on the
sketch size for certain languages (e.g., vectors of Hamming-weight one)
and proving the non-existence of arithmetic sketching schemes for others
(e.g., the language of all vectors that contain a speciﬁc value).
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2023
H. Handschuh and A. Lysyanskaya (Eds.): CRYPTO 2023, LNCS 14081, pp. 171–202, 2023.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-38557-5_6

172
D. Boneh et al.
1
Introduction
In many cryptographic protocols, a server holds an encoding of a large client-
provided vector. To protect against client misbehavior, the server must test
whether the vector satisﬁes a simple predicate. For example:
– In private ad measurement [24,37], an aggregation server holds a linearly
homomorphic encryption of a client-provided vector; the server must test
that the encrypted vector is zero everywhere except with a “1” at a single
location.
– In PIR writing [34] and private messaging [1,15,21], a set of servers holds
additive secret shares of a client-provided vector; the servers must test that
the secret-shared vector is zero everywhere except that it contains an arbitrary
value at a single location.
– In private-aggregation [9,14,18,29,35], a set of servers holds a secret-sharing
of a large client-provided vector; the server must test whether the vector has
bounded Hamming weight.
– In e-voting schemes [26], a tally server holds a linearly homomorphic encryp-
tion of a vector representing a ballot; the server must test that the vector has
non-negative entries and bounded L1 norm.
– In veriﬁable distributed multi-point functions [19], a set of servers holds (com-
pressed) additive secret shares of a client-provided vector; the servers must
test whether the vector has Hamming weight exactly w.
– In protocols for malicious-secure OT and MPC [17], a veriﬁer holds a linearly
homomorphic commitment to a prover-provided vector; the veriﬁer must test
whether the vector has bounded Hamming weight.
Each of these prior works gives a clever special-purpose protocol for its particular
property-testing problem. And each scheme has the desirable feature that in the
most important complexity measure–typically server-to-server communication
or proof size—the server’s cost is sublinear in the input size.
At the same time, each of the state-of-the-art schemes has at least one of
three shortcomings: dependence on proofs, limited extensibility, and unclear
optimality of their complexity measures. In particular, many of these proto-
cols [9,14,15,17,21,26] require the client to provide some auxiliary information
(“proof”) about the vector to the servers/veriﬁer to perform the validity check,
or even require interaction with the client [8,17]. This dependence on the client
precludes important use cases such as distributing the client, e.g. in an MPC
protocol, or accepting the aggregate contribution of multiple clients. Also, in
some applications, the servers must check a property on a subset of the vec-
tor that only the servers know [9]. So even if there is a single client, the client
may not know what exactly it needs to prove. In addition, these protocols are
purpose-built to test speciﬁc properties required for their applications, without
necessarily considering extensions or generalizations. For example, testing that a
vector has a single non-zero location is useful for diﬀerent applications, but the
set of authorized non-zero payloads might change between applications. Making

Arithmetic Sketching
173
these tools most broadly useful requires generalizing and unifying these con-
structions. Finally, in each of these protocols, it is not clear whether the known
schemes are the best possible, in terms of the key complexity metrics.
In this work, we introduce arithmetic sketching schemes, giving a general
framework for constructing protocols that enable testing simple properties on
large vectors. Our schemes resolve the main shortcomings of those in prior work:
they require no auxiliary “proof” information from the client in the secret-shared
setting, they are extensible, and in certain cases they match new eﬃciency lower
bounds that we prove. The general framework provides simple, concretely eﬃ-
cient protocols for each of the aforementioned applications.
Formalization of Arithmetic Sketching. The ﬁrst contribution of this paper is
the deﬁnition of arithmetic sketching schemes. The purpose of an arithmetic
sketching scheme for a language of vectors L ⊆Fn, over a ﬁnite ﬁeld F and
input size n ∈N, is to test whether a given input x ∈Fn is in the language L.
Typically, the languages L we consider are “simple” ones, such as the language
of vectors of Hamming-weight one, of bounded-L1 norm, etc.
More precisely, an arithmetic sketching scheme for a language L is a pair of
algorithms: a sketching algorithm and a decision algorithm.
– The sketching algorithm is a randomized procedure that outputs a matrix
Q ∈Fℓ×n. The number of rows in the matrix ℓ(the “sketch size”) is typically
small—constant in the input length n.
– The decision algorithm, takes as input ℓvalues, corresponding to the matrix-
vector product of the sketching matrix Q ∈Fℓ×n with the input vector x ∈Fn.
The decision algorithm must accept all x ∈L and, with high probability,
reject all x ̸∈L. Furthermore, the decision algorithm must be arithmetic, in
the sense that it is computed by an arithmetic circuit over the ﬁeld F, with
size independent of the ﬁeld size |F| and the input length n.
We can think of the vector (Q · x) ∈Fℓas a succinct “sketch” of the large input
x ∈Fn, since these ℓ≪n values contain enough information to decide whether or
not x ∈L. While all of the algorithms we construct are computationally eﬃcient,
when deﬁned relative to inﬁnite families of languages {Ln}∞
n=1, computational
eﬃciency plays no role in our deﬁnitions—an arithmetic sketching scheme is a
purely information-theoretic object.
While linear sketching is a staple of data-structure and algorithm design [2,
13,33], the key distinction here is the requirement for the decision predicate
to be a small arithmetic circuit. Removing this arithmetic requirement trivial-
izes the problem: as we discuss in Sect. 2.2, every sparse-enough language has
a simple non-arithmetic sketching scheme with a small sketch size (albeit with
a computationally ineﬃcient decision procedure). Even if we require computa-
tional eﬃciency, the arithmetic requirement limits the power of the sketches we
consider: they cannot, say, test predicates of very large algebraic degree. At the
same time, as we now discuss, arithmetic sketching schemes are a natural ﬁt for
cryptographic applications.

174
D. Boneh et al.
Applications of Arithmetic Sketching.
Whenever veriﬁers can inexpensively
apply linear functions to a large input x, arithmetic sketches yield asymptot-
ically and concretely eﬃcient protocols for testing properties on the input x.
For example, consider a set of veriﬁers who hold linear secret shares of a large
vector x, as is the case in multiparty computations [5] and many practical proto-
cols [1,8,9,14,15,18–21,34], and who want to test whether x ∈L. An arithmetic
sketching scheme for L gives a very simple multiparty protocol for this prob-
lem: The veriﬁers can use shared randomness to generate the sketching matrix
Q ∈Fℓ×n and can locally compute secret shares of the “sketch” Q · x ∈Fℓ.
Then, the veriﬁers can run the decision procedure on these ℓvalues in a small
multiparty computation to determine whether x ∈L. The fact that the decision
procedure is arithmetic and of small size (independent of |F| and n) ensures that
this last step is inexpensive, even in the multiparty setting.
Analogously, consider a server who holds the encryption of a client-provided
vector x ∈Fn under a linearly homomorphic encryption (or commitment) scheme
E(·), as is the case in a number of protocols [17,24,26,35,37]. In this case, the
server can unilaterally compute the sketch under encryption: E(Q · x) using
random coins it shares with the client. The client can then convince the server
that x ∈L using a small zero-knowledge proof—again, whose size is independent
of F and n. While general-purpose succinct zero-knowledge techniques [7] can
of course achieve the same goal, arithmetic sketching schemes can yield simpler
protocols under simpler assumptions.
Eﬃciency Metrics. When using arithmetic sketching schemes in cryptographic
protocols, there are three main complexity metrics of interest:
– The sketch size dictates the computation required to evaluate the sketch.
Since computing the sketch is the only part of the computation that depends
on the (large) input length n, minimizing the sketch size—down to the
constant—is crucial for concrete eﬃciency.
– The algebraic degree of the decision procedure dictates the round complexity
of a multiparty computation for evaluating the sketch. Or, when s servers
evaluate the sketch in a non-interactive multiparty computation, a sketch of
degree d dictates the collusion threshold t < s/d—the number of colluding
servers that the protocol can tolerate.
– The number of multiplication gates in the arithmetic circuit representing the
decision procedure dictates the communication complexity of evaluating the
sketch in a multiparty computation. Or, when the sketch is used to construct
zero-knowledge proof, the gate count determines the size and time cost of
generating and verifying the proof.
With an eye towards building the most concretely eﬃcient multiparty protocols,
our constructions aim to minimize these costs, which may each form a bottleneck
in natural application scenarios.
1.1
Our Contributions
We now summarize our technical contributions.

Arithmetic Sketching
175
New Framework for Sketching Weight-One Vectors. Our ﬁrst contribution is
a new framework for constructing arithmetic sketching schemes languages of
vectors L ⊆Fn with at most one non-zero entry, where the non-zero entry
must lie in a certain set B ⊆F. Such languages feature prominently in schemes
for PIR writing [1,15,21,34], private ad-measurement systems [24,37] private
telemetry applications [9,18], and two-party ORAM schemes [20]. Our new view
of arithmetic sketching schemes for weight-one vectors yields the ﬁrst arith-
metic sketching schemes for weight-one vectors with B = F and B = {−1, 0, 1}
(for “like/abstain/dislike” voting), and also gives a clean derivation of existing
schemes.
Our approach works in three steps:
1. In Sect. 3.1, we deﬁne algebraic manipulation detection distributions (“AMD
distributions”), an object inspired by AMD codes [16], a primitive of inde-
pendent interest. For B ⊆Fℓ, a B-multiplicative AMD distribution is a dis-
tribution D over codewords in Fℓ, along with a veriﬁer. For a word sampled
from D, veriﬁcation succeeds if a “permitted” aﬃne transformation Fℓ→Fℓ
has been applied to the word, and veriﬁcation fails (with high probability)
otherwise. More precisely, the veriﬁer must accept all words in the support
of D scaled by any value in B. The veriﬁer must reject, with high probabil-
ity, all aﬃne functions on words in the support of D that fall outside of this
“permitted” set.
2. In Sect. 3.2, we show that any B-multiplicative AMD distribution gives a
simple arithmetic sketching scheme for the language of vectors of weight at
most one, whose non-zero element lies in B. The size ℓof the sketch is equal
to the length of codewords in the AMD distribution.
3. Finally, in Sect. 3.3, we show that pairs of polynomials over F whose zeros
satisfy certain conditions yield AMD distributions.
Putting these three components together gives both a recipe for constructing
new arithmetic sketching schemes for weight-one vectors, and a characterization
of existing schemes for testing properties of weight-one vectors [12].
The First Arithmetic Sketching Schemes for Low-Weight Vectors. In Sect. 4,
we use new techniques to construct arithmetic sketching schemes for vectors of
various form with bounded weight.
First, in Sect. 4.2, we show how to repurpose existing algorithms for black-box
testing of sparse polynomials [25] to construct an arithmetic sketching scheme for
vectors in Fn of Hamming weight w, where the non-zero entries can be arbitrary
in F.
Our idea is to view the input vector x ∈Fn as the coeﬃcients of a polynomial
fx ∈F[Z] of degree at most n−1. Now, the input x has Hamming weight w if and
only if the polynomial fx has w non-zero coeﬃcients. Prior work [25] shows that
O(w) polynomial-evaluation queries are enough to test whether a polynomial
has w non-zero coeﬃcients. Furthermore the decision procedure for this test can
be made arithmetic. With a single linear combination of the elements of x, of

176
D. Boneh et al.
the form (1, r, r2, r3, . . . , rn−1) ∈Fn, we can compute an evaluation of fx on r.
So, we obtain an O(w)-size sketch for the language of weight-w vectors.
Next, in Sect. 4.3, we construct an arithmetic sketching scheme for vectors in
Fn whose non-zero components are in the set {0, . . . , w} and sum to exactly w
(i.e., the “L1-norm” is w). This language comes up in voting applications, where
a client may cast w votes for n candidates, and may vote multiple times for
the same candidate. Our technical idea is to construct a low-degree multivariate
polynomial whose coeﬃcients are determined by the input vector x ∈Fn, such
that the polynomial is (a) identically zero whenever the vector x has L1-norm
w and is (b) non-zero otherwise. We construct this polynomial via Newton’s
identities. Then, we show that it is possible to evaluate this polynomial at a
random point using w + 1 queries to the input vector.
As a ﬁnal arithmetic sketching scheme for the bounded-weight case, we show
in Sect. 4.4 how to sketch for vectors Fn of weight w whose non-zero elements
satisfy an arbitrary arithmetic circuit C : F →F, where the size of C is inde-
pendent of F. To do so, we ﬁrst use the aforementioned results to test that the
input vector x has Hamming weight w. We next use linear queries to partition
the input vector at random into w2 chunks of size n/w2, and to sum the values
in each chunk. We then accept if either (a) the vector has Hamming weight < w,
in which case two non-zero elements were hashed to the same chunk or (b) the
sums all satisfy the circuit C, which happens whenever the vector is valid and
there are no collisions. (By the birthday bound, the latter happens with con-
stant probability.) This basic scheme has large correctness error, so we drive the
correctness error down using a careful repetition of these steps.
We summarize our new sketch constructions in Table 1.
Table 1. Our new sketch constructions and their relation to prior work. Here, we
assume that the sketch is over a ﬁnite ﬁeld F of characteristic greater than two. The note
“Requires proof” indicates that the scheme is a fully linear probabilistically checkable
proof [8] (see Sect. 5), rather than an arithmetic sketching scheme.
Language
Our sketch
Result
Size
Deg
Muls
Notes
Weight at most one, non-zero value in B. . .
. . . with B = {0, 1}
n/a
2
2
1
⎫
⎬
⎭From BGI [12]
. . . with B = {−1, 1}
n/a
2
2
1
. . . with B = {1}
n/a
2
2
1
. . . with B = F
Theorem 13
3
2
2
Requires proof [12]
. . . with B = {−1, 0, 1}
"
2
3
2
"
"
. . . with B = {0, 1}
Theorem 16
3
2
2
Soundness err. O(|F|−2)
Weight at most w, non-zero values in B. . .
. . . with B = F
Corollary 22
O(w2)
3
O(w4)
Requires proof [17]
. . . with B = {0, 1}
Corollary 27
O(w2)
3
O(w2.81)
"
"
. . . with B = {0, . . . , w}, entries sum to ≤w Theorem 26
w + 1
w + 2 w2
"
"
Weight exactly w
Theorem 21
2w + 1 3
O(w2.81) Only for DPF [19]

Arithmetic Sketching
177
From Sketching to Malicious-Secure Client-Server Multiparty Protocols. As we
have discussed, arithmetic sketching schemes naturally give rise to protocols that
a set of servers can use to check that a client-provided secret-shared vector x
lies in a language L. In essentially all applications, x ∈L if the client is honest,
and x ̸∈L otherwise. To recall: the servers, each holding additive shares of x,
use shared randomness to generate the sketching matrix, they compute shares
of the sketch locally, and then run a multiparty computation to run the decision
procedure on these answers.
This simple protocol is not maliciously secure: any one of the servers can
shift their share of the input x ∈Fn by an additive oﬀset Δ ∈Fn. If the client
is honest (x ∈L), the sketch should always accept and the servers learn nothing
about x apart from the fact that x ∈L. However, once the malicious server
has shifted its input by Δ, the output of the decision procedure reveals whether
(x + Δ) ∈L, which could reveal one bit of information about x. (In an e-voting
setting, for example, this bit could reveal which candidate the client voted for.)
In Sect. 5, we give a general method for augmenting sketch-based client-server
protocols of this form with malicious security at minimal cost. So, we show that
any good arithmetic sketching scheme for a language L yields a malicious-secure
client-server protocol of this type for L. The technique is to have the client
provide a randomized encoding of its input to the servers, using a ﬂavor of
algebraic manipulation detection distributions (as in Sect. 3). Our construction
generalizes beyond arithmetic sketching schemes to also provide malicious-secure
client-server protocols for languages with “fully linear probabilistically checkable
proofs” [8].
Limits of Arithmetic Sketching Schemes. Our ﬁnal contributions are to give
lower bounds on the eﬃciency and power of arithmetic sketching schemes.
In Sect. 6, we use an algebraic argument to show that any arithmetic sketching
scheme for vectors in Fn of weight at most one (B = F) with sketch size ℓand
a decision predicate of degree d has soundness error at least

(d + 1) |F|ℓ−2 −1.
This establishes that our arithmetic sketching scheme of Sect. 3 with sketch size
ℓ= 3 is essentially optimal in terms of its sketch size, providing an unexpected
separation from the case of unit vectors in Fn (B = {0, 1}), in which sketch size
ℓ= 2 is enough for O(1/|F|) soundness error.
In Sect. 7, we use lower bounds from communication complexity to show that
certain languages cannot have arithmetic sketching schemes. For example, deﬁne
the Lp-norm of x = (x1, . . . , xn) ∈Fn, for p relatively prime to |F| −1, as the
scalar (xp
1 +· · ·+xp
n)1/p ∈F. In Sect. 4, we give a arithmetic sketching scheme for
the language of vectors of L1 norm w, with entries in {0, . . . , w}. It is something
of a surprise then that, as we show, there are no analogous arithmetic sketching
schemes the language of vectors with Lp-norm, for any p > 1. For any B ⊆F,
we also rule out arithmetic sketching schemes for the language of vectors that
are all zeros with a contiguous run of values in B of arbitrary length, and the
language of vectors that contains one value in B and arbitrary values elsewhere.

178
D. Boneh et al.
1.2
Related Work
Boyle, Gilboa, and Ishai [12] implicitly constructed arithmetic sketching schemes
for languages of vectors in Fn of Hamming weight one, where the non-zero ele-
ment is in B ⊆F, for B = {0, 1}, {−1, 1}, {1}. They also presented a solution for
the case of an unrestricted payload (i.e., B = F), but their approaches required
auxiliary proof information from the client. A variant of this construction that
avoids the extra proof was given in the Blinder system [1].
Distributed point functions [12] (DPFs) give a compressed representation of
additive secret shares of a weight-one vector in Fn. A work of de Castro and
Polychroniadou [19] gives a technique that two parties, each holding a DPF key,
can use to verify that their keys together indeed represent a vector of Hamming-
weight one (B = F in our notation). When their protocol applies, it is extremely
eﬃcient. However, their protocol only applies to a speciﬁc tree-based DPF con-
struction, thus not applying to input vectors that are secret-shared directly or
encrypted. Moreover, their protocol cannot check further properties of the non-
zero element (i.e., B = {0, 1}), which is critical for many applications.
Arithmetic sketching schemes are closely related to fully linear probabilis-
tically checkable proofs [8] (FL-PCPs). Essentially an FL-PCP for a language
L ⊆Fn is a Merlin-Arthur analogue of arithmetic sketching scheme. In an FL-
PCP, the veriﬁer’s queries compute an inner product with the input x concate-
nated with a proof string π, whose length may grow with the input length n.
(The number of queries is typically constant in n.) If x ∈L, there is a proof
π that causes the veriﬁer to accept. If x /∈L the veriﬁer almost always rejects.
Arithmetic sketching schemes are thus FL-PCPs with an empty proof string.
FL-PCPs are more powerful than arithmetic sketching schemes—given a large
enough proof, they can check whether the input satisﬁes an arbitrary arithmetic
circuit. Yet FL-PCPs require additional proof, which can be costly in communi-
cation or infeasible when there is no one party that knows the full input.
Traditional sketching data structures [2,13,33], which summarize a large data
stream in small space, inspire our approach. As we discuss in Sect. 2, the arith-
metic nature of our sketches means that most traditional sketching techniques
do not naturally apply in our setting.
Finally, the combination of secure computation and sketching was previously
considered in the context of sublinear-communication secure computation proto-
cols for approximations [22,27,28]. Since the focus of these works was on crude
asymptotic eﬃciency rather than concrete eﬃciency, they could rely on tradi-
tional (non-arithmetic) linear sketching. Moreover, in contrast to the approxi-
mate sketching problems considered in these works, here we consider arithmetic
sketching schemes that yield the exact output except with negligible failure prob-
ability.
Notation. For a ﬁnite set S, we use x ←
R S to denote a uniformly random sample
from S. We use x =
def 3 to note deﬁnition and ⟨·, ·⟩to denote inner product. For a
ﬁnite ﬁeld F, when |F| > n we use 1, 2, 3, . . . , n to denote distinct non-zero ﬁeld
elements.

Arithmetic Sketching
179
2
A Formalization of Arithmetic Sketching Schemes
We characterize our goal by the following notion of an arithmetic sketching
scheme. Our deﬁnition (Sect. 2.2) is roughly analogous to the deﬁnition of fully
linear PCPs [8], with the role of the witness and prover removed.
2.1
Overview
We deﬁne arithmetic sketching schemes with respect to a ﬁnite ﬁeld F, a dimen-
sion n ∈N, and a language L ⊆Fn. For a given input x ∈Fn, the task is to
determine whether x ∈L given only the output of a linear function applied to the
input vector x. That is, in a arithmetic sketching scheme with sketch size ℓ, we
consider a veriﬁer who uses randomness to produce a sketching matrix Q ∈Fℓ×n.
The veriﬁer receives the matrix-vector product of the sketching matrix Q with
the input vector x: that is, Q · x ∈Fℓ. The veriﬁer decides whether to accept
(x ∈L) or reject (x ̸∈L) by running a decision algorithm D on the vector Q · x.
All of the speciﬁc languages L we will consider in this work are simple,
and can be decided in linear time in the input size. What makes constructing
arithmetic sketching schemes non-trivial is that (1) the decision algorithm takes
as input a small linear sketch of the (large) input vector and (2) the decision
algorithm must be a small arithmetic circuit, as we discuss now.
Arithmetic Veriﬁer. We will typically consider inﬁnite families of languages L,
parameterized by the ﬁeld F and input length n. For example, we could consider
the family of all unit vectors in Fn. We will require our arithmetic sketching
constructions to have an arithmetic veriﬁer: that is, the decision algorithm D
applies an arithmetic circuit to the sketch, and accepts if and only if the cir-
cuit outputs the all-zeros vector in F. Restricting the decision circuit to being
arithmetic means that it is possible to compute with good concrete eﬃciency in
a secure multi-party computation, as in our motivating applications. (Later, in
Sect. 4.1, we will also consider relaxed arithmetic sketching schemes with par-
tially arithmetic decision predicates.)
Universal Family of Sketching Schemes. We require by default that the family
be universal in the sense that both the sketch size ℓand the decision algorithm
D are independent of the ﬁeld F and input size n.
Complexity Measures. In our constructions, we will aim to minimize the sketch
size ℓ(inﬂuencing the computation time), the algebraic degree of D (inﬂuencing
the round complexity or security threshold), and the multiplicative size of D
(number of multiplication gates, inﬂuencing communication complexity).
2.2
Formal Deﬁnitions
We now formalize the above discussion.

180
D. Boneh et al.
Deﬁnition 1 (Arithmetic sketching scheme: Syntax). Let F be a ﬁnite ﬁeld.
A arithmetic sketching scheme for a language L ⊆Fn with sketch size ℓ∈N
consists of a pair of algorithms (S, D):
– S() →Q ∈Fℓ×n. The randomized sketching algorithm outputs a query matrix
Q ∈Fℓ×n. (We also refer to Q as the “sketching matrix.”)
– D(a) →y ∈Fm. The decision algorithm takes as input a sketch vector a ∈Fℓ
and outputs a vector y ∈Fm. (To enable stronger security, we will later
allow the decision algorithm D to be randomized, taking random ﬁeld elements
r1, . . . , rk as additional inputs.)
We assume by default that the decision algorithm D is implemented by an
arithmetic circuit over F, consisting of addition, subtraction and multiplication
gates, as well as a unit gate outputting the constant 1 ∈F. We measure the
complexity of D by its algebraic degree and multiplicative size (counting the
number of multiplication gates).
A arithmetic sketching scheme as above must satisfy the following properties.
Deﬁnition 2 (Completeness and soundness). A arithmetic sketching scheme
(S, D) for a language L ⊆Fn is
– Complete if, for all x ∈L, the veriﬁer accepts:
Pr[D(Q · x) = 0m : Q ←S()] = 1.
(If this probability is at least 1−ϵ, we say that the arithmetic sketching scheme
has completeness error ϵ.)
– Sound with soundness error ϵ if, for all x ̸∈L, the acceptance probability, as
in the completeness deﬁnition, is at most ϵ.
A few remarks on the deﬁnition of arithmetic sketching schemes:
Linear Decision Not Interesting. The decision algorithm D must contain at least
one multiplication gate. If not, the arithmetic sketching accepts the vectors in
the kernel of a linear map and thus can only test linear predicates.
Non-arithmetic Sketching. We restrict the decision algorithm D to have low
arithmetic complexity. Without this restriction, any language L ⊆Fn can be
decided using a sketch of size ℓ= O(log |L|). The sketch, given input x ∈Fn,
just computes a random linear combination r ←R(x) ∈Fℓof the input vector.
The decision predicate searches—via brute-force search—for a value x′ ∈L such
that R(x′) = r and accepts if, and only if, one exists. Since a random linear code
has good distance, the sketch will be sound. When the decision predicate must
be algebraic, constructing arithmetic sketching schemes is non-trivial, even in
the information-theoretic setting.

Arithmetic Sketching
181
2.3
Zero Knowledge
In the context of cryptographic applications, it is important that if x ∈L,
then the sketching-based veriﬁcation reveal nothing beyond the fact that x ∈L.
For the above notion of arithmetic sketching, this zero-knowledge property is
automatically guaranteed by the completeness requirement if we use a secure
computation protocol to compute the output of the decision algorithm D. Indeed,
for x ∈L, the output of D is always 0m. However, some applications motivate
a stronger notion of two-sided zero knowledge, requiring that the output of the
decision algorithm D hides all information about the input x apart from whether
x ∈L. To this end, we allow the decision algorithm D to be randomized, taking
secret random ﬁeld elements as additional inputs.
Deﬁnition 3 (Two-sided zero knowledge). We say that an arithmetic sketch-
ing scheme has δ-two-sided zero knowledge if there exists a simulator Sim such
that for all x ∈Fn, the following distributions are δ-close in statistical distance:
Dideal = Sim(1{x ∈L})
// Sim gets the bit indicating whether x ∈L
Dreal =
⎧
⎨
⎩

Q, v

:
Q ←S()
r ←
R Fk
v ←D

Q · x; r

⎫
⎬
⎭.
If δ = 0, we say that the scheme satisﬁes perfect zero knowledge.
An arithmetic sketching scheme may not necessarily satisfy two-sided zero
knowledge. In particular, if x ̸∈L the output of D could leak additional informa-
tion about the input x. But the following generic transformation, whose proof we
give in the full version of this paper, uses a standard random-linear-combination
technique to modify any arithmetic sketching scheme into one with two-sided
zero knowledge at a small additional cost:
Fact 4. It is possible to modify any arithmetic sketching scheme over ﬁnite ﬁeld
F with decision predicate D: Fℓ× Fk →Fm to satisfy perfect two-sided zero
knowledge by allowing D to use m secret random ﬁeld elements. This modiﬁca-
tion increases the multiplicative size of D by m, the algebraic degree of D by 1,
and the soundness error by 1/ |F|.
3
Sketching via Algebraic Manipulation Detection
We will be particularly interested in languages consisting of vectors whose Ham-
ming weight is at most 1, possibly with additional restrictions on the nonzero
entry. (For simplicity, in the following we will sometimes use “weight 1” to refer to
weight at most 1.) In this section, we present a new framework for constructing
arithmetic sketching schemes for such languages. The framework captures sev-
eral existing ad-hoc constructions in a uniﬁed way and gives rise to eﬃcient new
constructions. The central tool is a new object that we call an algebraic manip-
ulation detection (AMD) distribution. This notion is inspired by the notion of
AMD codes of Cramer et al. [16], extending it to provide limited forms of targeted
malleability [10].

182
D. Boneh et al.
Background: AMD Codes. An AMD code gives a (randomized) way to encode a
message into a codeword in a way that allows detection of “additive tampering”
of the encoded message. In particular, an AMD code consists of a randomized
encoder Enc: Fn →Fℓand decoder Dec: Fℓ→Fn such that:
– it is possible to recover the message from the codeword: for all messages
m ∈Fn, Pr[m = Dec(Enc(m))] = 1, and
– the codeword shifted by any additive oﬀset either decodes to the correct
message m or a failure symbol ⊥: for all messages m ∈Fn and Δ ∈F ℓ,
Pr

Dec(Enc(m) + Δ) ̸∈{m, ⊥}

≤ϵ,
where the probability is taken over the randomness of Enc and ϵ is some small
value ϵ ≈1/ |F|.
Our Notion: AMD Distributions. Our notion of AMD distributions diﬀers from
standard AMD codes in three ways:
1. First, there is no encoder and no message to be encoded. Instead we deﬁne a
sampling algorithm SAMD that outputs, eﬀectively, a random codeword r.
2. Second, we demand that attempting to decode a codeword r that has been
shifted by a non-zero additive oﬀset results in a decoding failure with high
probability. (In traditional AMD codes, a shifted codeword may decode to the
failure symbol ⊥or to the original message.) This stronger AMD requirement
appears in several works on secure computation [23].
3. Third, and most important, we demand that the manipulation-detection
property of the coding scheme holds even for aﬃne tampering: that is, tak-
ing r to βr + Δ for nonzero scalar β and vector Δ. (Traditional AMD codes
detect only additive shifts.) In some cases, we allow decoding to succeed if the
codeword r is multiplied by an “allowable” value β ∈B, for some prespeciﬁed
set B ⊆F. We call these “B-multiplicative” AMD distributions.
Looking ahead, we will show that any B-multiplicative AMD distribution
yields a sketching scheme for the language of vectors of weight one whose payload
is in the set B.
3.1
Deﬁnition
We now make our notion of AMD distributions formal.
Deﬁnition 5 (AMD
Distribution).
An
algebraic
manipulation
detection
(AMD) distribution over ﬁnite ﬁeld F with codeword length ℓ∈N and error
ϵ is given by a pair of procedures:
– SAMD() →r ∈Fℓ. A randomized algorithm that samples a codeword r.
– VAMD(r) →y ∈F. A veriﬁcation algorithm, represented as an arithmetic
circuit, that accepts a vector r ∈Fℓand outputs an element y ∈F. We
interpret the output as accepting if y = 0 and rejecting otherwise.

Arithmetic Sketching
183
These procedures must satisfy the following properties:
– Nontriviality: The distribution of SAMD is supported by at least two vectors.
– Completeness: We have that:
Pr[VAMD(r) = 0 : r ←SAMD()] = 1.
– Aﬃne manipulation detection: For every scalar β ∈F and additive oﬀset
Δ ∈Fℓwith β ̸= 0 and Δ ̸= 0ℓ, it holds that
Pr[VAMD(βr + Δ) = 0 : r ←SAMD()] ≤ϵ.
Remark. In Sect. 3.5, we will consider a more reﬁned notion of AMD distribu-
tions, requiring that the decoder detect any nontrivial linear combination of two
or more (distinct) random samples from SAMD with high probability.
For our applications, we will often need AMD distributions that satisfy forms
of targeted malleability. That is, for some set B ⊆F, we would like the AMD
decoder to accept codewords that have been scaled by a constant β ∈B and to
reject, with high probability, all codewords scaled by constants β′ ∈F \ B.
Note that the completeness requirement implies that 1 ∈B. In the context
of the sketching application this is without loss of generality, since for any β ∈
B \ {0} scaling the queries by β eﬀectively converts B to β−1 · B.
The following deﬁnition captures the above notion of targeted malleability:
Deﬁnition 6 (B-Multiplicative AMD Distribution). Let F be a ﬁnite ﬁeld and
let B ⊆F such that 1 ∈B. We say that an AMD distribution (SAMD, VAMD)
over F and with error ϵ is B-multiplicative if it additionally satisﬁes the following
properties:
– For every β ∈B, it holds that Pr[VAMD(βr) = 0 : r ←SAMD] = 1.
– For every β′ ∈F \ B, it holds that Pr[VAMD(β′r) = 0 : r ←SAMD] ≤ϵ.
We will need the following lemma, which we prove in the full version:
Lemma 7. Let (SAMD, VAMD) be an AMD distribution with codeword length ℓ
over ﬁnite ﬁeld F, where |F| > 2, with error ϵ. Then for all r0 ∈Fℓ, we have
Pr[SAMD = r0] ≤ϵ.
3.2
From AMD Distributions to Sketching Schemes
We now use AMD distributions to construct arithmetic sketching schemes for
the language of vectors of Hamming weight (at most) one, whose non-zero entry
lies within a speciﬁc set B. For our discussion, the following notation will be
useful:
Deﬁnition 8 (Language LB).
For a ﬁnite ﬁeld F, dimension n ∈N, and set
B ⊆F, we deﬁne the language LB to be the set of B-multiples of unit vectors in
Fn. That is, LB = {β · ei | i ∈[n], β ∈B}, where ei ∈Fn is the vector of zeros
with a single one at coordinate i.

184
D. Boneh et al.
The following construction shows that B-multiplicative AMD distributions
immediately give rise to arithmetic sketching schemes for the language LB.
Construction 9 (Sketch for Hamming-weight one from AMD distributions).
The construction is parameterized by a ﬁnite ﬁeld F, an input size n ∈N, a set
B ⊆F such that 1 ∈B, and a B-multiplicative AMD distribution (SAMD, VAMD)
with codeword length ℓ∈N. The arithmetic sketching scheme (S, D) is over the
ﬁeld F, has sketch size ℓ, and is deﬁned as follows:
– S() →Q ∈Fℓ×n.
• For i ∈[n], compute ri ←
R SAMD() ∈Fℓ.
• Output the matrix Q ∈Fℓ×n whose columns are (r1, . . . , rn).
– D(a) →y ∈Fm.
• Output VAMD(a).
Theorem 10. If (SAMD, VAMD) is a B-multiplicative AMD distribution over
ﬁnite ﬁeld F (|F| > 2) with codeword length ℓand error ϵ then, for all n ∈N,
Construction 9 instantiated with (SAMD, VAMD) is an arithmetic sketching scheme
for the language LB ⊆Fn (as in Deﬁnition 8) with soundness error 2ϵ.
Proof. To show completeness: We can write any valid input x ∈LB as x = βei
for some β ∈B and i ∈[n]. Then, for sketching query matrix Q ←SAMD(),
we have that a = Q · x = Q · (βei) ∈Fℓ; i.e., the i-th column of the query
matrix multiplied by the scalar β. By construction, the i-th column of the matrix
Q is computed as (ri1, . . . , riℓ) ←SAMD(). So the sketch decision procedure
outputs D(βri1, . . . , βriℓ) = VAMD(βri1, . . . , βriℓ). This value is always 0 by the
B-multiplicative property of the AMD distribution (SAMD, VAMD), so the veriﬁer
always accepts.
To show soundness: Let x′ /∈LB. There are two cases.
– Case 1: x′ = β′ei for some i ∈[n], β′ /∈B.
By the B-multiplicative property of the AMD distribution:
Pr [D(Q · x′) = 0: Q ←S()]
= Pr [VAMD(β′ri1, . . . , β′riℓ) = 0: (ri1, . . . , riℓ) ←SAMD()]
≤ϵ.
– Case 2: x′ has Hamming weight k ≥2. Letting Q be the random ℓ× n query
matrix, we can write the answer vector a = Q · x′ as a linear combination
of k ≥2 independent samples ri from the AMD distribution SAMD. Namely,
a = k
i=1 βiri for nonzero βi ∈F. Letting Δ = k
i=2 βiri, we can now write:
Pr [D(a) = 0] = Pr

VAMD(β1r1 + Δ) = 0

≤Pr [Δ = 0] + Pr

VAMD(β1r1 + Δ) = 0 | Δ ̸= 0

≤ϵ + ϵ = 2ϵ,
where the last inequality follows from Lemma 7 and the aﬃne manipulation
detection property of SAMD.
□

Arithmetic Sketching
185
3.3
Constructing AMD Distributions from Algebraic Varieties
We now show how to construct AMD distributions based on algebraic vari-
eties. These AMD distributions, via Theorem 10, give rise to practical arithmetic
sketching schemes for useful instances of the Hamming-weight one languages LB
that minimize the relevant complexity measures.
Construction 11 (AMD distribution from varieties). The construction is
parameterized by a ﬁnite ﬁeld F, randomness complexity k ∈N, a codeword size
ℓ∈N, an arithmetic AMD sampler, deﬁned by a polynomial map g: Fk →Fℓ,
and an AMD veriﬁer, deﬁned by a polynomial f ∈F[R1, . . . , Rℓ]. The construc-
tion is then:
– SAMD() →r ∈Fℓ:
• Sample a random vector (s1, . . . , sk) ←
R Fk.
• Output r ←g(s1, . . . , sk) ∈Fℓ.
– VAMD(r1, . . . , rℓ) →y ∈F: Output y ←f(r1, . . . , rℓ) ∈F.
The following theorem follows almost immediately by construction:
Theorem 12. When instantiated with a polynomial map g: Fk →Fℓwith total
degree deg g and polynomial f ∈F[R1, . . . , Rℓ] with total degree deg f, Construc-
tion 11 is a B-multiplicative AMD distribution, in the sense of Deﬁnition 6, with
soundness error (deg f · deg g)/ |F| when:
(1) [for completeness] the polynomial f ◦g ≡0 ∈F[S1, . . . , Sk],
(2) [for AMD] for all non-zero β ∈F and non-zero Δ ∈Fℓ, the formal polyno-
mial f ◦(βg + Δ) ̸≡0 ∈F[S1, . . . , Sk], and
(3) [for B-multiplicativity] it holds that f ◦βg ≡0 if and only if β ∈B.
Proof. For completeness: By property (1), VAMD(SAMD) = f(g(s1, . . . , sk)) = 0.
For AMD: When at least one of β ∈F and Δ ∈Fℓis non-zero, we have:
Pr[VAMD(βr + Δ) = 0: r ←SAMD()] = Pr[f(βg(s) + Δ): s ←
R Fk].
By property (2), f ◦(βg + Δ) ∈F[S1, . . . , Sk] is a non-zero polynomial, and its
total degree is at most deg f · deg g. Then by the Schwartz-Zippel Lemma, the
probability that a random point in Fk is a zero is at most (deg f · deg g)/ |F|.
For B-multiplicativity: we invoke property (3). When β ∈B, the argument
is the same as for completeness. When β ̸∈B, the argument is the same as for
AMD.
□
If the pair (f, g) satisfy properties (1) and (2) of Theorem 12, we can use
the theorem to characterize the B-multiplicativity properties of the AMD dis-
tribution resulting from Construction 11. In particular, when f has monomials
of only two degrees, we have the following:

186
D. Boneh et al.
– One degree: Suppose f is homogeneous; i.e., every monomial of f has the
same total degree d ≥0. Then the pair (f, g) give a B-multiplicative AMD
distribution for B = F. That is because, since for all β ∈F,
f ◦βg = βd · (f ◦g) ≡0,
where the ﬁnal step holds by the completeness guarantee f ◦g ≡0.
– Two degrees: Suppose f(R1, . . . , Rℓ) = f1(R1, . . . , Rℓ) + f2(R1, . . . , Rℓ),
where f1, f2 ̸≡0 and every monomial of f1 (respectively, f2) has total degree
d1 + d2 (resp, d2), where d1 > 0, d2 ≥0. Then
f ◦βg = f1 ◦βg + f2 ◦βg
= βd1+d2 · (f1 ◦g) + βd2 · (f2 ◦g)
= βd2(1 −βd1) · (f2 ◦g),
where the ﬁnal step holds since f1◦g ≡−f2◦g by the completeness guarantee.
Since f2 ̸≡0, this polynomial is the zero polynomial precisely for values of β
which annihilate the preﬁxed multiplicative term. Depending on the choices of
d1, d2, this directly corresponds to the sets B = {1}, {0, 1}, {−1, 1}, {−1, 0, 1}.
3.4
New Sketching Schemes for Weight-One Vectors
We now consider several useful instantiations of Construction 11, including both
new sketching schemes and abstractions of existing ones.
New Instantiations. Our characterization also yields useful new arithmetic
sketching schemes for the case char(F) > 2:
B = {−1, 0, 1} :
f(r1, r2) = r3
1 −r2
g(s) = (s, s3)
B = F :
f(r1, r2, r3) = r1r2 −r2
3
g(s1, s2) = (s2
1, s2
2, s1s2).
Constructions from [12]. The following sketching schemes from [12] ﬁt directly
into the characterization above, yielding a simple uniﬁed derivation based on
Theorem 12:
B = {0, 1} :
f(r1, r2, r3) = r3 −r1r2
g(s1, s2) = (s1, s2, s1s2)
B = {0, 1} :
f(r1, r2) = r2
1 −r2
g(s) = (s, s2)
B = {1} :
f(r1, r2) = (r1 + 1)2 −r2
g(s) = (s, (s + 1)2),
where the last two schemes require char(F) > 2.
We illustrate checking the conditions of Theorem 12 for the case B = F:
– Completeness: f ◦g = s2
1s2
2 −(s1s2)2 ≡0.
– AMD: for β ∈F and Δ = (Δ1, Δ2, Δ3) ∈F3, we have f ◦(βg + Δ)(s1, s2) =
βΔ2s2
1 + βΔ1s2
2 −2βΔ3s1s2 + (Δ1Δ2 −Δ2
3). For any non-zero β and non-
zero Δ, this polynomial in (s1, s2) is not identically zero.

Arithmetic Sketching
187
– B-multiplicative: Since f is homogeneous of degree two, it holds by the com-
pleteness property that f ◦βg ≡0 for all β ∈F.
We summarize the above by the following theorem.
Theorem 13 (Arithmetic sketching with a single decision polynomial).
Let n be a positive integer and F be a ﬁnite ﬁeld with char(F) > 2. There are
arithmetic sketching schemes for the language LB ⊆Fn (as in Deﬁnition 8), with
soundness error O(1/|F|) and a single decision polynomial f, for the following
choices of B.
– B = {0, 1}: sketch size 2, f of degree 2 and multiplicative size 1;
– B = {1}: sketch size 2, f of degree 2 and multiplicative size 1;
– B = {−1, 0, 1}: sketch size 2, f of degree 3 and multiplicative size 2;
– B = F: sketch size 3, f of degree 2 and multiplicative size 2.
Jumping ahead, in Theorem 29 we will show that the extra query required for
the case B = F is not an artifact of our construction, and it is in fact necessary
even if a decision algorithm D consisting of multiple decision polynomials fi is
allowed.
Remark (General LB). An arithmetic sketching scheme for LB with an arbitrary
B ⊂F of size k can be reduced to the case of LF by adding the single additional
query q0 = (1, 1, . . . , 1) and another decision polynomial of degree k, checking
that a0 = ⟨x, q⟩∈B. However, this general solution is signiﬁcantly less eﬃcient
than the sketching schemes from Theorem 13.
3.5
A Sketch with 1/ |F|2 Soundness for Binary Weight 1
In Sect. 3.2 we used AMD distributions to construct sketching schemes for the
language LB ⊆Fn (Deﬁnition 8) for certain sets B ⊆F. When char(F) > 2, the
sketch from Sect. 3.2 for L{0,1} contains two elements and has soundness error
O(1/ |F|).
In this section we construct a sketch for L{0,1} that contains three elements
and has soundness error O(1/ |F|2). One can repeat the sketch for L{0,1} from
Sect. 3.2 twice to obtain the same soundness level, however the resulting sketch
would have length four, whereas our sketch has length three.
The previous notion of AMD distributions is insuﬃcient for this purpose.
First, the veriﬁcation algorithm VAMD(r) outputs only a single ﬁeld element,
which is insuﬃcient to achieve soundness error ϵ < 1/|F|. More inherently, the
failure probability ϵ must be bigger than the inverse of the support size of SAMD,
since a successful additive attack can be based on a guess of the codeword r. In
the following, we will modify original notion of AMD distributions (Deﬁnition 5)
to address both limitations. Concretely, the new notion allows VAMD(r) to output
multiple ﬁeld elements, and requires detection of linear combinations of two or
more distinct samples from SAMD. Somewhat surprisingly, the latter requirement
will allow us to break the inverse-support-size barrier.

188
D. Boneh et al.
Deﬁnition 14 (Low-Error AMD Distribution). A low-error AMD distribution
with error ϵ is deﬁned similarly to a standard AMD distribution from Deﬁni-
tion 5, with the following modiﬁed syntax and detection property.
– Syntax: VAMD(r) →y ∈Fm, namely the veriﬁcation circuit outputs m ﬁeld
elements. We interpret the all-0 output as accepting.
– Completeness: Pr

VAMD(r) = 0m : r ←SAMD()

= 1.
– Detection: Let S be the support size of SAMD and let n ∈N satisfy 2 ≤n < S.
Let S(n)
AMD denote the probability distribution of n independent samples from
SAMD, conditioned on all samples being distinct. Then for all (β1, . . . , βn) in
Fn \ L{0,1} it holds that
Pr

VAMD(β1r(1) + . . . + βkr(n)) = 0m : (r(1), . . . , r(n)) ←S(n)
AMD

≤ϵ.
(1)
A low-error AMD distribution as above naturally gives rise to an arithmetic
sketching scheme detecting inputs in L{0,1}, as in Construction 9. The only diﬀer-
ence is that instead of sampling the columns of the sketching matrix uniformly at
random from SAMD, their choice is now conditioned on the distinctness require-
ment. We next show how to instantiate this approach with SAMD that samples
powers of a random ﬁeld element.
Construction 15 (A low-error AMD distribution). The construction is param-
eterized by a codeword length ℓ∈N, a ﬁnite ﬁeld F, and a polynomial map
f : Fℓ→Fm. The construction is then:
– SAMD() →r ∈Fℓ:
• Sample a random s ←
R F∗.
• Output r ←(s, s2, . . . , sℓ) ∈Fℓ
– VAMD(r1, . . . , rℓ) →y ∈F: Output f(r1, . . . , rℓ) ∈Fm.
The next theorem shows that instantiating this construction with ℓ= 3,
which implies a sketch of size three, gives a low-error AMD distribution with
error ϵ = O(1/ |F|2).
Theorem 16. Let n ∈N and let F be a ﬁeld where |F| > n2. Then the SAMD in
Construction 15, instantiated with ℓ= 3 and the polynomial map
f(r1, r2, r3) =

r2
1 −r2,
r3 −r1r2

∈F2
is a low-error AMD distribution with error ϵ ≤6e/(|F|2 −3 |F|).
Proof idea. We give the full proof in the full version of this paper. Completeness
follows directly from the construction. To prove the detection property deﬁned
in (1), we have two cases: First, suppose the input vector has weight 1 but that
its non-zero element u is not in {0, 1}. Then u2 ̸= u and therefore (siu)2 ̸= s2
i u
because si ∈F∗. This means that z2
1 −z2 ̸= 0 as required. Second, suppose that
the input vector β has weight w greater than one. Deﬁne the set (F̸=)n as the set
of all n-tuples in (F∗)n whose elements are pairwise distinct. Then for the sketch

Arithmetic Sketching
189
to fail, the random vector s ∈(F̸=)n, whose elements are pairwise distinct, must
lie on the intersection of the two n-variate polynomials
⟨X, β⟩2 = ⟨X2, β⟩
and
⟨X3, β⟩= ⟨X, β⟩· ⟨X2, β⟩.
(2)
For a ﬁxed β of weight at least two, we will appeal to Bézout’s theorem to argue
that the intersection contains at most 6 |F|n−2 points s ∈(F̸=)n. Given that, we
can bound the detection error as required.
□
4
Sketching for Low-Weight Vectors
In this section, we construct sketching schemes for languages of vectors of low
Hamming weight.
Throughout this section, when working with input vectors of dimension n,
we assume that the ﬁnite ﬁeld F over which we work contains an element of
order at least n. If the ﬁeld F is too small for such an element to exist, we can
lift the input vector to an extension K/F such that |K| ≥n. When working with
a secret-shared input vector, this lifting requires no communication between the
veriﬁers. Using such an extension increases the communication cost, in terms of
bits, by at most a multiplicative ⌈log2 n⌉factor.
4.1
Reﬁned Deﬁnitions: Arithmetic sketching with Private Decision
In this section, we give reﬁned deﬁnitions of arithmetic sketching schemes, which
give more eﬃcient constructions when implementing the decision predicate in a
multiparty computation (as in many applications). In particular, we now split
the decision predicate D into two parts: a private predicate Dpriv and a public
predicate Dpub:
– The private predicate, Dpriv, operates on the veriﬁer’s sketch of the input
vector x and evaluates a (typically small) randomized arithmetic circuit on
the sketch. The output of Dpriv is essentially a “sanitized” version of the
sketch—the sanitized sketch leaks nothing about the input x, in a sense that
we will deﬁne shortly. In applications, we will typically evaluate Dpriv via
secure multiparty computation.
– The public predicate, Dpub, takes the “sanitized” sketch as input and deter-
mines whether the veriﬁer will accept or reject. The public predicate may
compute a complicated high-degree function of its inputs. Since the inputs to
Dpub leak nothing about the instance x, in applications, it is safe to publish
these values and compute Dpub in the clear.
The reﬁned syntax is then:
– S() →Q. The sketching algorithm outputs a query matrix Q ∈Fℓ×n.
– Dpriv(a, (r1, . . . , rk)) →y ∈Fm. The private decision algorithm takes as input
the sketch a = Q · x ∈Fℓand random ﬁeld elements r1, . . . , rk, and outputs
a vector y ∈Fm.

190
D. Boneh et al.
– Dpub(y) →{0, 1}. The public decision algorithm takes as input a vector
y ∈Fm and outputs an accept/reject bit.
Completeness and soundness are as in the standard deﬁnition of arithmetic
sketching schemes (Deﬁnition 2) with the combined decision algorithm Dpub ◦
Dpriv replacing the single algorithm D. For zero knowledge, we require that the
output of the private decision algorithm leak nothing about the input x apart
from the fact that x ∈L.
Deﬁnition 17 (Zero knowledge with split decision predicate). We say that an
arithmetic sketching scheme (S, Dpriv, Dpub) for a language L ⊆F satisﬁes δ-
zero knowledge if there exists a simulator Sim such that for all x ∈L, the fol-
lowing distributions are δ-close in statistical distance:
Dideal = Sim()
Dreal =
 
Q, Dpriv
Q · x, r

: Q ←S()
r ←
R Fk

.
If an arithmetic sketching scheme has δ-zero knowledge for δ = 0, we say that
the sketch has perfect zero knowledge.
Our notion of zero knowledge is analogous to the notion of strong zero-
knowledge in the setting of zero-knowledge proof systems on secret-shared
data [8].
Fact 4 shows that when the decision algorithm is a single arithmetic circuit, it
is easy to modify any arithmetic sketching scheme to satisfy the stronger notion
of two-sided zero knowledge (Deﬁnition 3) by augmenting the decision algorithm
with a bit of additional randomness. Since the decision routine here may have a
non-algebraic (high-degree) public predicate, it is no longer always easy to add
two-sided zero knowledge to such arithmetic sketching schemes.
4.2
Weight-w Vectors with Arbitrary Payload
We ﬁrst give a linear sketch-veriﬁcation scheme that recognizes vectors of Ham-
ming weight w with arbitrary payload.
Given an input vector x = (x0, . . . , xn−1) ∈Fn, we view the vector x as
holding the coeﬃcients of the polynomial p(Z) = n−1
i=0 xiZi ∈F[Z]. Notice
that the number of non-zero coeﬃcients of the polynomial p is exactly equal
to the number of non-zero elements of the input vector x. Furthermore, for
all r ∈F, it is possible to compute the evaluation of the polynomial p at the
point r by taking a single linear combination of the elements of x, of the form
(1, r, r2, . . . , rn−1) ∈Fn. So, if we can test whether a polynomial p has w non-
zero coeﬃcients using ℓpolynomial-evaluation queries to p, we can test whether
the input vector x has w non-zero coeﬃcients using a linear sketch of size ℓ. By
applying existing algorithms for testing whether a polynomial’s coeﬃcient vector
is sparse [25], we thus construct linear sketch-veriﬁcation schemes for low-weight
vectors.

Arithmetic Sketching
191
The sketch-veriﬁcation schemes in this section rely on the following lemma,
which appears in a similar form in the work of Grigorescu, Jung, and Rubin-
feld [25]:
Lemma 18 (Ben-Or and Tiwari [6]). Let F be a ﬁnite ﬁeld, let p ∈F[U] be a
polynomial, and let ℓbe a non-negative integer. Then for any u ∈F, deﬁne the
Hankel matrix Hp(u) as:
Hp(u) =
def
⎛
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎝
p(1)
p(u)
p(u2) . . .
p(uℓ)
p(u)
p(u2)
p(u3) . . . p(uℓ+1)
p(u2) p(u3)
p(u4) . . . p(uℓ+2)
...
...
...
...
p(uℓ) p(uℓ+1) p(uℓ+2) . . . p(u2ℓ)
⎞
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎠
∈F(ℓ+1)×(ℓ+1).
Then for a polynomial p with w non-zero coeﬃcients,
– if w > ℓ, the determinant det(Hp(U)) is a non-zero polynomial in U of degree
at most 2
ℓ+1
2

deg(p), and
– if w ≤ℓ, the determinant det(Hp(U)) ≡0, as a polynomial in U.
In particular, if the polynomial p of Lemma 18 has more than ℓnon-zero
coeﬃcients, then for a random u ←
R F, the matrix Hp(u) will be full rank and its
determinant det(Hp(u)) will be non-zero with high probability. If the polynomial
p has ℓor fewer non-zero coeﬃcients, the matrix Hp(u) will be of rank w, with
high probability over the a random choice of u ←
R F.
We will also need the following standard fact, proven in the full version of
this paper:
Fact 19. Let F be a ﬁnite ﬁeld and let n be a positive integer. Then the proba-
bility that a random matrix R ←
R Fn×n is full rank is at least
1
|F|−1.
Construction 20 (Sketching for Hamming weight w). The construction is
parameterized by a ﬁnite ﬁeld F, and integers w and n with w < n < |F|.
The sketch accepts the language of vectors in Fn of Hamming weight exactly w.
The scheme has sketch size ℓ= 2w + 1, completeness error 2/(|F| −1) sound-
ness error O(w2n/ |F|), and a decision algorithm implementable by an arithmetic
circuit with O(wα) multiplication gates, where α < 2.81 is the (algebraic) matrix-
multiplication constant.
– S() →Q.
• Sample a random value u ←
R F.
• Return
Q =
⎛
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎝
1
1
1
1
. . .
1
1
u
u2
u3
. . .
u(n−1)
1 u2
u4
u6
. . .
u2(n−1)
...
...
...
...
...
...
1 uℓ−1 u2(ℓ−1) u3(ℓ−1) . . . u(ℓ−1)(n−1)
⎞
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎠
∈Fℓ×n.

192
D. Boneh et al.
– Dpriv(a, (r1, . . . , rk)) →y ∈Fm.
• Use the sketch a ∈Fℓof size ℓ= 2w + 1 to form a Hankel matrix H:
H =
⎛
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎝
a1
a2
a3
. . . aw+1
a2
a3
a4
. . . aw+2
a3
a4
a5
. . . aw+3
...
...
...
...
aw+1 aw+2 aw+3 . . . a2w+1
⎞
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎠
∈F(w+1)×(w+1).
• Use the k = 2(w + 1)2 random values r1, . . . , rk ∈F given as input to
sample two square matrices R1, R2 ∈F(w+1)×(w+1).
• Compute the matrix-matrix product R1 · H · R2 ∈F(w+1)×(w+1).
• Output this product as a vector of dimension m = (w + 1)2.
– Dpub(y) →{0, 1}. Interpret the input y ∈Fm as a matrix Y of dimension
(w + 1) × (w + 1). Accept if and only if rank(Y ) = w.
Theorem 21. Construction 20 has completeness error
2
|F|−1, soundness error
O(w2n/ |F|), and perfect zero knowledge.
Proof of Theorem 21. For completeness: By Lemma 18, when the input vector x
has Hamming weight w, the matrix H will have rank w. Then provided that
the random matrices R1 and R2 that Dpriv samples are of full rank, the matrix
R1·H ·R2 will have rank w and the veriﬁer will accept. By Fact 19 and the union
bound, the probability that either matrix fails to be invertible is 2/(|F| −1).
For soundness: When the input vector x has Hamming weight w′ < w, the
matrix H has rank w′ < w (by Lemma 18), so the matrix H ·R has rank at most
w′ and the veriﬁer will always reject. When the input vector x has Hamming
weight w′ > w, again by Lemma 18, the determinant is a polynomial in u of
degree O(w2 deg p). So in this case the determinant is non-zero, and the veriﬁer
will accept with probability at most O(w2 deg p).
For zero knowledge: The simulator outputs a random matrix in F(w+1)×(w+1)
of rank w. To explain why the simulation is correct, if x has Hamming weight
w, the matrix H always has rank w, by Lemma 18. Multiplying a rank-w matrix
on the left and right by random invertible matrices yields a random rank-w
matrix.
□
Bounded Weight. Construction 20 accepts vectors of Hamming weight exactly w.
In some applications, we want to accept the language L×≤w
B
of vectors of Hamm-
ming weight at most w. We prove the following in the full version of this paper:
Corollary 22. There is an explicit arithmetic sketching scheme for the language
of vectors in Fn of Hamming weight at most w. The scheme has sketch size
O(w2), completeness error 2/(|F| −1) soundness error O(w2n/ |F|), perfect zero
knowledge, and a single arithmetic decision circuit with O(w4) multiplication
gates.

Arithmetic Sketching
193
4.3
Sketching for Vectors with L1 Norm w
Let w and n be a positive integers, and let F be a ﬁnite ﬁeld of characteristic
greater than wn. In this section we give a linear sketch-veriﬁcation scheme that
recognizes vectors of a bounded L1 norm, speciﬁcally the set
L(=w)
1
=
def

(x1, . . . , xn) ∈Fn :
n

i=1
xi = w,
xi ∈{0, . . . , w}

.
(3)
This sketch is useful for voting or private-telemetry applications in which each
client casts w votes for n candidates, while allowing the client to vote for the
same candidate multiple times.
To outline the main technical idea: given an input vector x = (x1, . . . , xn) ∈
Fn, the sketch chooses a random vector (r1, . . . , rn) ∈Fn and evaluates the
power sums
pj =
def
n

i=1
xi · rj
i ∈F,
for j = 1, . . . , w + 1
(4)
using a total of w + 1 linear queries to x (i.e., using a sketch of size w + 1). To
decide whether or not to accept the vector x, we apply the Newton identities
(Theorem 23) to the sketch (p1, . . . , pw+1) to obtain the quantities ew and ew+1
in F. Then the decision algorithm accepts the instance x if ew+1 = 0 and ew ̸= 0.
The sketch can be adapted to test membership in L(≤w)
1
where the equality
in (3) is changed to n
i=1 xi ≤w. The only modiﬁcation to the sketch is that x
is accepted whenever ew+1 = 0 (we drop the check that ew ̸= 0).
To explain why this approach is sound, let us ﬁrst review the Newton iden-
tities. For w ≥0
– let Pw(X1, . . . , Xn) be the w-th power sum polynomial deﬁned as
Pw(X1, . . . , Xn) = n
j=1 Xw
j .
– Let Ew(X1, . . . , Xn) be the w-th symmetric polynomial, deﬁned as
Ew(X1, . . . , Xn) = 
1≤j1<j2<···<jw≤n Xj1Xj2 . . . Xjw.
The Newton identities relate these two families via a recurrence relation.
Theorem 23 (Newton identities [32]). For all ﬁnite ﬁelds F and integers
k, n ∈N with k ≤n:
k · Ek(X1, . . . , Xn) =
k

i=1
(−1)i−1 · Ek−i(X1, . . . , Xn) · Pi(X1, . . . , Xn).
The recurrence lets us express Ek purely in terms of P1, . . . , Pk. For example
E1 = P1,
2E2 = P 2
1 −P2,
6E3 = P 3
1 −3P1P2 + 2P3,
(5)
and so on. In other words, for every k > 0 there is a polynomial Nk such that
Ek = Nk(P1, . . . , Pk). This Nk has total degree k.
Then observe that if the input vector x has L1 norm greater than w, the
polynomial Ew+1(X1, . . . , Xn) will not be identically zero. Its evaluation at the
point (r1, . . . , rn) then will be non-zero with high probability.

194
D. Boneh et al.
Construction 24 (Sketching for L1 weight w). The construction is parameter-
ized by integers w and n and a ﬁnite ﬁeld F of characteristic greater than nw.
The sketch accepts the language of vectors L(=w)
1
in Fn. The scheme has sketch
size w +1, soundness error O((w +1)/ |F|), and a decision predicate with O(w2)
multiplication gates.
– S() →(q1, . . . , qw+1).
• Sample random values r1, . . . , rn ←
R F.
• Return
Q =
⎛
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎝
r1 r2 r3 r4 · · · rn
r2
1 r2
2 r2
3 r2
4 · · · r2
n
...
...
... ...
rℓ
1 rℓ
2 rℓ
3 rℓ
4 · · · rℓ
n
⎞
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎠∈Fℓ×n.
– Dpriv
(p1, . . . , pw+1), (d1, d2)

→y ∈F2.
• Use the ℓ= w + 1 sketch values (p1, . . . , pw+1) to compute the quanti-
ties ew and ew+1 using (5), namely, ew = Nw(p1, . . . , pw) and ew+1 =
Nw+1(p1, . . . , pw+1).
• Use the two random values d1, d2 ∈F∗to blind ew and ew+1 by computing
ˆew = ew · d1 and ˆew+1 = ew+1 · d2.
• Output y = (ˆew, ˆew+1) ∈F2.
– Dpub(y) →{0, 1}. Parse y = (ˆew, ˆew+1) ∈F2. Accept if and only if ˆew ̸= 0
and ˆew+1 = 0.
Theorem 25. Construction 24 is complete, sound, and zero knowledge.
Zero knowledge as in Deﬁnition 3 is immediate. The following theorem, which
we prove in the full version of this paper, proves completeness and soundness of
the construction.
Theorem 26. Let F be a ﬁnite ﬁeld of characteristic greater than nw. Then the
following holds for all x = (x1, . . . , xn) ∈Fn. Sample a random (r1, . . . , rn) ∈Fn,
compute the power sums p1, . . . , pw+1 ∈F as in (4), and use (5) to compute
ew+1 ∈F as ew+1 = Nw+1(p1, . . . , pw+1). Then
– if x ∈L(≤w)
1
then Pr[ew+1 = 0] = 1,
– if x ̸∈L(≤w)
1
then Pr[ew+1 = 0] ≤(w + 1)/ |F|.
Here the probability is over the random choice of (r1, . . . , rn) in Fn.
Note that Construction 24 uses Theorem 26 twice: once to prove that x ∈
L(≤w)
1
and once to prove that x ̸∈L(≤w−1)
1
. Together this proves that x is in
L(=w)
1
.
Binary Vectors of Hamming Weight w. By combining Construction 20 and
Construction 24 we obtain a sketch that accepts vectors x ∈Fn that (i) have
Hamming weight w and (ii) are in L(=w)
1
. The only such vectors are vectors in
{0, 1}n that have Hamming weight w. We have:

Arithmetic Sketching
195
Corollary 27. There is an arithmetic sketch for binary vectors of Hamming
weight w; the cost is that of running both Construction 20 and Construction 24.
Vectors of Hamming Weight w with Equal Non-zero Entries. To test if
a vector is of Hamming weight w with all non-zero entries equal to one another,
the veriﬁer can apply a sketch vector of the form (1, 1, 1, . . . , 1) to the input to
compute the sum σ ∈F of the entries of the input vector. If the input vector
x ∈Fn is well formed, then the value σw−1 ∈F is the value of the non-zero
entries. Then the vector (w · σ−1)x ∈Fn is a binary vector of Hamming weight
w if and only if x ∈Fn is a vector of Hamming weight w with equal non-zero
entries. The veriﬁer can then test that the vector (w · σ−1)x ∈Fn is a binary
vector of Hamming weight w. If so, the veriﬁer can conclude that x is of Hamming
weight w with equal non-zero entries.
More generally, the veriﬁer can apply an arbitrary arithmetic circuit C : F →
F to σw−1 ∈F, such as a bounds check, to ensure that all of the non-zero entries
are equal and satisfy circuit C.
4.4
Bounded-Weight Vectors with Arbitrarily Restricted Payloads
In the full version of this paper, we construct arithmetic sketching schemes for
vectors in Fn with exactly w non-zero entries and where each non-zero entry sat-
isﬁes a arithmetic circuit C : F →F. (We assume that C(0) ̸= 0 ∈F. Otherwise
we can use the remark below to sketch for the language of vectors of Hamming
weight at most w whose non-zero entries satisfy C.) We have:
Theorem 28. For all λ, w, n ∈N with w ≤n < |F|, and arithmetic circuits
C : F →F (with size independent of F), there is a arithmetic sketching scheme
for the language of vectors in x ∈Fn of Hamming weight w such that each non-
zero element satisﬁes C. The scheme ( in the full version ) has completeness
error ϵ = 4/(|F|−1)+2−λ, soundness error O(w2n/ |F|), sketch size O(wλ) and
ϵ-zero knowledge.
5
From Arithmetic Sketching to Client-Server Protocols
As discussed, a natural motivating application scenario of our arithmetic sketch-
ing schemes is in a client-server setting, where a client secret shares a sensitive
vector across servers, and the servers must verify that the shared vector has
a proper form. The linear nature of the sketching scheme enables the servers
to individually compute shares of the sketch of the input. The low arithmetic
complexity of the decision algorithm D means that servers can securely secure
evaluate D on their shares of the sketch using a via multi-party computation
(MPC). If the arithmetic sketching scheme satisﬁes the property of zero knowl-
edge from Deﬁnition 17, then the corresponding client-server veriﬁcation scheme
further provides zero-knowledge guarantees against semi-honest servers. We refer
the reader to prior work [8] for a detailed treatment of this transformation in the

196
D. Boneh et al.
semi-honest model. Indeed, our arithmetic sketching schemes can be seen as a
special case of fully linear probabilistically checkable proofs (FL-PCP) from prior
work [8], without a Prover procedure.
However, note that the properties of the arithmetic sketching scheme do not
directly give any guarantees against a potentially adversarial veriﬁer. Indeed,
in the solutions thus far, a malicious server may be able to reveal information
about the input. In what follows, we analyze this more adversarial setting, and
provide general techniques for achieving privacy against malicious veriﬁers.
We give the technical details on our client-server schemes in the full version
of this paper, and we give an overview of the results here.
Auxiliary Client Information Required. We ﬁrst observe that, in general, achiev-
ing security against a malicious veriﬁer/server requires the client to send addi-
tional information to the servers, beyond simply its secret shared vector. In
particular, without some form of auxiliary client information π, the scheme will
inevitably be subject to a selective-failure attack. Consider, for example, the
language L{0,1} ⊆Fn of binary vectors of weight at most 1. Given only secret
shares of x, a malicious server can learn whether x is the all-zero vector, by
adding +1 oﬀset to one position of his secret share, and seeing if the resulting
vector is accepted (or whether the vector is any other particular unit vector, by
analogous adjustments).
Given this state of aﬀairs, we thus turn back to the more general notion
of fully linear PCPs from [8], incorporating also a procedure for the client to
generate auxiliary information to provide to the servers. We provide a formal
deﬁnition in the full version of this paper. Note that in the deﬁnition of FL-PCP,
queries are restricted to make linear access to both the input x and the auxiliary
proof material π, i.e., in our notation the sketch is computed as Q · (x∥π) for
sketching matrix Q over F. Requiring the sketch to be a linear function of the
proof π is not inherent, but will be convenient for us. In particular, the client
can send the auxiliary information π to the servers in additive secret-shared
form, meaning that we can include sensitive information within π to aid in
authentication without revealing it to malicious servers.
Toward Malicious Security. We next observe that a malicious-secure protocol
must enforce the correct execution of the sketching algorithm S and private
decision algorithm D, even in the presence of malicious servers. We can achieve
this using malicious-secure multiparty computation protocols. Given the low
arithmetic complexity of the decision algorithm D, this resulting overhead will
be minimal. In most cases, to run the sketching algorithm S in a multiparty
computation, the veriﬁers may simply run a coin tossing protocol to sample the
randomness for query generation.
Privacy Against Additive Attacks. At this point, only one attack surface remains:
incorrectly performing query evaluation. Equivalently, the adversary’s remaining
power is to submit improper inputs to the secure computation protocol for the
decision algorithm D. Recall the inputs to the execution of D are (allegedly) each

Arithmetic Sketching
197
server’s additive share of the query answers. Since the veriﬁers only hold additive
secret shares of both the input x and proof material π by design, the adversarially
chosen input must be independent of these secret values; this corresponds to an
arbitrary ﬁxed additive oﬀset attack on the combined value. That is, a malicious
veriﬁer can learn the output of D on the shifted vector a + Δ ∈Fℓwhere a ∈Fℓ
is the honest sketch value and Δ ∈Fℓis an adversarially chosen additive oﬀset.
This kind of additive attack can reveal sensitive information, as the selective-
failure attack discussed above demonstrates. Even with auxiliary proof material
π, one must be careful. Suppose, for example, the value of π for x depends
only on the product of two symbols xixj and not on the symbols themselves; a
malicious veriﬁer can then learn whether xi = 0 for a secret input x by adding
a garbage oﬀset to his share of xj and seeing if the value is still accepted.
We formulate a notion of additive-attack privacy for the FL-PCP, strength-
ening zero knowledge by requiring no information is revealed even in the face of
additive attacks. Utilizing an FL-PCP with this extra property, together with
MPC secure against malicious parties for jointly executing the sketching algo-
rithm S and decision algorithm D suﬃces to yield a secure client-server protocol
in the manner described above.
Privacy Against Additive Attacks via AMD Distributions. As the ﬁnal step, we
develop a general approach for obtaining this notion of additive-attack privacy.
This will be done by once again making use of algebraic manipulation detection
(AMD) distributions, as put forth in Sect. 3. We show that if the distribution of
(honestly generated) FL-PCP query and answer values satisﬁes a form of AMD
guarantee, then the FL-PCP indeed provides privacy against additive attacks.
Then, we provide general transformations for “hardening” general FL-PCPs to
ones providing this additional AMD property, with mild overhead.
In the general case, the additional authentication values introduced in our
approach result in a constant multiplicative overhead above the secret sharing
of the vector x. However, this approach is particularly useful for the setting of
sparse vectors x (as is predominantly the focus of this paper), in which the cost
of secret sharing the additional proof information adds little overhead beyond
secret sharing the input itself. See also the discussion in the full version of this
paper.
6
Lower Bound on Sketch Size
In this section we establish a lower bound on the sketch size of an arith-
metic sketching scheme for weight-one vectors using an algebraic argument. We
show that the soundness error of an arithmetic sketching scheme for this lan-
guage depends on its sketch size. More precisely, the soundness error is at least
1
(d+1)|F|ℓ−2 if the sketch size is ℓand the algebraic degree of the decision algorithm
is d. Consequently, any arithmetic sketching scheme with sketch size only two has
constant soundness error. This bound proves that the positive result of Sect. 3

198
D. Boneh et al.
constructing a scheme for weight-one vectors with sketch size ℓ= 3 is optimal
for any scheme with soundness error of the form f(n)
|F| for some function f.
In the rest of the section we slightly abuse the terminology and say that
any scheme with soundness error larger than f(n)
|F| is not an arithmetic sketching
scheme, instead of stating the exact error. Additional terminology and notation
follow. Let LF be the language of vectors of weight at most 1 and length n ≥1
over a ﬁeld F. That is, LF = {βei : i ∈[n], β ∈F} ⊂Fn for unit vectors ei ∈Fn.
Recall that the decision predicate D : Fℓ→Fm is arithmetic and therefore
D(a1, . . . , aℓ) = (z1, . . . , zm) can be represented as m polynomials D1, . . . , Dm
over F such that Dj(a1, . . . , aℓ) = zj.
Theorem 29 states the main result of this section, which bounds the soundness
error of an arithmetic sketching scheme for LF as a function of its sketch size.
We prove Theorem 29 in the full version of this paper.
Theorem 29. Let (S, D) be a arithmetic sketching scheme for the language LF.
If the sketch size of the scheme is ℓ, and the algebraic degree of D is d then the
soundness error of the scheme is at least
1
(d+1)|F|ℓ−2 .
Corollary 30. Any scheme in our setting for LF with sketch size at most two
has soundness error at least
1
d+1. Therefore, any arithmetic sketching scheme
for LF must have sketch size at least three.
7
Languages Without Arithmetic Sketching Schemes
Consider two parties, one holding an input x ∈Fn, and the other holding an
input y ∈Fn who wish to determine if (x, y) ∈L′ for some language L′ ⊆(Fn)2,
using public coins. Let R(L′) denote the minimal communication complexity to
decide whether (x, y) ∈L′ for all x, y with probability bounded away from 1/2.
An arithmetic sketching scheme for the language L = {x + y | (x, y) ∈L′}
induces an instance of a protocol that decides L′ in two steps. First, the two
parties derive the sketching matrix from the public random coins, and locally
compute shares of the sketch on x + y using linearity. Then, the parties use an
interactive protocol to compute the decision on the sketch.
The communication complexity of this type of scheme depends only on the
decision algorithm D. However, since the families of sketching schemes we con-
sider are universal, D is independent of F and n, i.e. the communication com-
plexity of the scheme is O(1).
In this section, we use known lower bounds on the communication complexity
of any protocol that computes a language L′ to derive lower bounds on the size
of a decision circuit D in an arithmetic sketching scheme for the associated
language L. Indeed, we show that several natural languages L do not have a
universal family of arithmetic sketching scheme by proving that their decision
circuits must depend on n or on F.
The communication complexity lower bounds we use are on the problems of
Set Disjointness (DISJ) and Greater Than (GT). In Set Disjointness the inputs

Arithmetic Sketching
199
x, y are subsets of a universe {1, . . . , n}, and the goal is to decide the language
LDISJ = {(x, y) ⊆{1, . . . , n} | x∩y = ∅}. A series of works [4,30,36] established
that R(DISJ) = Θ(n). The inputs x, y in the problem of Greater Than are the
binary representation of two non-negative integers, and the goal is to decide the
language LGT = {(x, y) | x > y}. Viola [38] proved that R(LGT ) = Ω(log n).
7.1
Lp Norm
An arithmetic sketch for the language of vectors with L1 norm equal to some
w is presented in Sect. 4.3. It is natural to ask whether this construction can
be generalized to an arithmetic sketch for Lp such that p > 1 is a constant
integer. Even though Lp is not necessarily a norm over the ﬁeld, computing it
as a function is interesting and useful.
Previous work [3,31] on computing moments in the streaming model [2] with
low space complexity is suﬃcient to establish that arithmetic sketching schemes
for the Lp norm are impossible. In this model there are n real-valued changes
to a given vector of real numbers, and the goal is estimate the Lp norm of the
vector with small error and minimal space. Translating the bounds on space
complexity from the streaming model to sketch size in an arithmetic sketching
shows that ℓ= Ω(log n) for L2 and ℓ= Θ(n1−2/p log n) for p > 2. However, the
streaming model accepts a decision algorithm that is not necessarily arithmetic.
In this section we show a tighter bound for arithmetic sketching schemes via
a communication complexity argument. Speciﬁcally, we show that the decision
algorithm for Lp, p > 1, is of multiplicative size Ω(n) via a reduction of a general
protocol for DISJ to an arithmetic sketching for Lp.
More formally, for an integer p ≥2 and a ﬁeld F such that p and |F| −1
are co-prime let L(=w)
p
=
def 
(x1, . . . , xn) ∈Fn : (n
i=1 xp
i )1/p = w

. This def-
inition of Lp restricts the ﬁeld to ensure that a p-th root exists for every
ﬁeld element. For L2, which is the most useful case of Lp, we also consider
the norm squared, which can be deﬁned for all ﬁelds. Deﬁne the language
L2(=w)
2
=
def 
(x1, . . . , xn) ∈Fn : n
i=1 x2
i = w

.
The proof of the following theorem appears in the full version of this paper:
Theorem 31. Let n, p ≥2 be integers, p ≥2, let F be a ﬁnite ﬁeld such that
|F| −1 and p are co-prime, and let E be a ﬁnite ﬁeld, |E| > 2. If wf ∈F and
we ∈E then the decision algorithm for any arithmetic sketching scheme for the
languages L(=wf )
p
over F or L2(=we)
2
over E is of multiplicative size Ω(n).
7.2
Speciﬁed Value in Arbitrary Vector
In Sect. 3 we construct arithmetic sketching schemes for the language LB of B-
multiples of unit vectors, i.e. vectors in which all entries are 0, except for one
entry which is in the set B ⊆F. It seems natural to ask whether there is an
arithmetic sketching scheme for the language of all vectors in which one entry
is in B, while all other entries are arbitrary elements in F. The next theorem

200
D. Boneh et al.
proves that this language, namely LB,F =
def {(x1, . . . , xn) ∈Fn | ∃i, xi ∈B }, has
no arithmetic sketching scheme for B that is not too large, via a reduction from
DISJ. We prove the following theorem in the full version of this paper:
Theorem 32. Let n ≥2 be an integer, let F be a ﬁeld, and let B ⊆F such that
|B|
|F| ≤
1
3n. Then, the language LB,F has no arithmetic sketching scheme.
7.3
Intervals
Shared vectors that are all zero, except for a secret interval [a, b], 1 ≤a ≤b ≤n
on which their value is some constant β ∈B have several diﬀerent applications,
e.g. [11,12]. Let
Lint,B =
def

(x1, . . . , xn) ∈Fn : ∃1 ≤a ≤b ≤n, ∃β ∈B ∀a ≤i ≤b xi = β,
∀(i < a ∨i > b) xi = 0

.
We prove the following theorem in the full version of this paper:
Theorem 33. If B = {0, 1} then there does not exist an arithmetic sketching
scheme for the language Lint,B.
8
Open Questions
Our results leave several natural open questions. A broad question is to obtain
a tight understanding of the achievable tradeoﬀs between sketch size, decision
degree, and soundness error for languages of interest. Even for the simple “weight-
1” languages covered by Theorem 13, where our sketching schemes are optimal
with respect to both sketch size and decision degree, the soundness error we
obtain is only optimal up to a constant factor.
The gaps are bigger for more complex languages. For example, in the case of
vectors of Hamming weight at most w, it is open whether our O(w2) sketch size
(Corollary 22) can be improved to to match our O(w) sketch size for the case of
Hamming weight exactly w (Theorem 21).
Finally, it may be useful to extend the scope of arithmetic sketching to cap-
ture approximate computations, which are commonly considered in the algorith-
mic literature on (insecure) sketching and streaming.
Acknowledgements. D. Boneh is supported by NSF, the DARPA SIEVE program,
the Simons Foundation, UBRI, and NTT Research. E. Boyle is supported by AFOSR
Award FA9550-21-1-0046, ERC Project HSS (852952), and a Google Research Award.
H. Corrigan-Gibbs is supported by Capital One, Facebook, Google, Mozilla, Seagate,
MIT’s FinTech@CSAIL Initiative, and NSF Award CNS-2054869. N. Gilboa is sup-
ported by ISF grant 2951/20, ERC grant 876110, and a grant by the BGU Cyber Cen-
ter. Y. Ishai is supported by ERC Project NTSC (742754), BSF grant 2018393, and
ISF grant 2774/20. Opinions, ﬁndings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed
in this material are those of the authors and do not necessarily reﬂect the views of
DARPA.

Arithmetic Sketching
201
References
1. Abraham, I., Pinkas, B., Yanai, A.: Blinder: MPC based scalable and robust anony-
mous committed broadcast (2020)
2. Alon, N., Matias, Y., Szegedy, M.: The space complexity of approximating the
frequency moments. In: STOC, pp. 20–29 (1996)
3. Andoni, A., Nguyen, H.L., Polyanskiy, Y., Wu, Y.: Tight lower bound for lin-
ear sketches of moments. In: Fomin, F.V., Freivalds, R., Kwiatkowska, M., Peleg,
D. (eds.) ICALP 2013. LNCS, vol. 7965, pp. 25–32. Springer, Heidelberg (2013).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-39206-1_3
4. Bar-Yossef, Z., Jayram, T.S., Kumar, R., Sivakumar, D.: An information statistics
approach to data stream and communication complexity. J. Comput. Syst. Sci.
68(4), 702–732 (2004)
5. Ben-Or, M., Goldwasser, S., Wigderson, A.: Completeness theorems for non-
cryptographic fault-tolerant distributed computation. In: STOC (1988)
6. Ben-Or, M., Tiwari, P.: A deterministic algorithm for sparse multivariate polyno-
mial interpolation. In: Proceedings of the Twentieth Annual ACM Symposium on
Theory of Computing, pp. 301–309 (1988)
7. Bitansky, N., et al.: The hunting of the SNARK. J. Cryptol. 30(4), 989–1066 (2017)
8. Boneh, D., Boyle, E., Corrigan-Gibbs, H., Gilboa, N., Ishai, Y.: Zero-knowledge
proofs on secret-shared data via fully linear PCPs. In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio,
D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019. LNCS, vol. 11694, pp. 67–97. Springer, Cham (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-26954-8_3
9. Boneh, D., Boyle, E., Corrigan-Gibbs, H., Gilboa, N., Ishai, Y.: Lightweight tech-
niques for private heavy hitters. In: IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy.
IEEE (2021)
10. Boneh, D., Segev, G., Waters, B.: Targeted malleability: homomorphic encryption
for restricted computations. In: Goldwasser, S. (ed.) Innovations in Theoretical
Computer Science 2012, Cambridge, MA, USA, 8–10 January 2012, pp. 350–366.
ACM (2012)
11. Boyle, E., et al.: Function secret sharing for mixed-mode and ﬁxed-point secure
computation. In: Canteaut, A., Standaert, F.-X. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2021. LNCS,
vol. 12697, pp. 871–900. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-77886-6_30
12. Boyle, E., Gilboa, N., Ishai, Y.: Function secret sharing: improvements and exten-
sions. In: CCS (2016)
13. Cormode, G., Muthukrishnan, S.: An improved data stream summary: the count-
min sketch and its applications. J. Algorithms 55(1), 58–75 (2005)
14. Corrigan-Gibbs, H., Boneh, D.: Prio: private, robust, and scalable computation of
aggregate statistics. In: NSDI, pp. 259–282 (2017)
15. Corrigan-Gibbs, H., Boneh, D., Mazières, D.: Riposte: an anonymous messaging
system handling millions of users. In: IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy
(2015)
16. Cramer, R., Dodis, Y., Fehr, S., Padró, C., Wichs, D.: Detection of algebraic manip-
ulation with applications to robust secret sharing and fuzzy extractors. In: Smart,
N. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2008. LNCS, vol. 4965, pp. 471–488. Springer, Heidelberg
(2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-78967-3_27
17. Damgård, I., Luo, J., Oechsner, S., Scholl, P., Simkin, M.: Compact zero-knowledge
proofs of small hamming weight. In: Abdalla, M., Dahab, R. (eds.) PKC 2018.
LNCS, vol. 10770, pp. 530–560. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-319-76581-5_18

202
D. Boneh et al.
18. Davis, H., Patton, C., Rosulek, M., Schoppmann, P.: Veriﬁable distributed aggre-
gation functions. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2023)
19. de Castro, L., Polychroniadou, A.: Lightweight, maliciously secure veriﬁable func-
tion secret sharing. In: Dunkelman, O., Dziembowski, S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2022.
LNCS, vol. 13275, pp. 150–179. Springer, Cham (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-031-06944-4_6
20. Doerner, J., Shelat, A.: Scaling ORAM for secure computation. In: CCS (2017)
21. Eskandarian, S., Corrigan-Gibbs, H., Zaharia, M., Boneh, D.: Express: lowering the
cost of metadata-hiding communication with cryptographic privacy. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1911.09215 (2019)
22. Feigenbaum, J., Ishai, Y., Malkin, T., Nissim, K., Strauss, M.J., Wright, R.N.:
Secure multiparty computation of approximations. ACM Trans. Algorithms 2(3),
435–472 (2006)
23. Genkin, D., Ishai, Y., Prabhakaran, M.M., Sahai, A., Tromer, E.: Circuits resilient
to additive attacks with applications to secure computation. In: Shmoys, D.B. (ed.)
Symposium on Theory of Computing, STOC, pp. 495–504. ACM (2014)
24. Green, M., Ladd, W., Miers, I.: A protocol for privately reporting ad impressions
at scale. In: CCS (2016)
25. Grigorescu, E., Jung, K., Rubinfeld, R.: A local decision test for sparse polynomials.
Inf. Process. Lett. 110(20), 898–901 (2010)
26. Groth, J.: Non-interactive zero-knowledge arguments for voting. In: Ioannidis,
J., Keromytis, A., Yung, M. (eds.) ACNS 2005. LNCS, vol. 3531, pp. 467–482.
Springer, Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/11496137_32
27. Indyk, P., Woodruﬀ, D.: Polylogarithmic private approximations and eﬃcient
matching. In: Halevi, S., Rabin, T. (eds.) TCC 2006. LNCS, vol. 3876, pp. 245–264.
Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/10.1007/11681878_13
28. Ishai, Y., Malkin, T., Strauss, M.J., Wright, R.N.: Private multiparty sampling and
approximation of vector combinations. Theor. Comput. Sci. 410(18), 1730–1745
(2009)
29. Jansen, R., Johnson, A.: Safely measuring Tor. In: CCS, pp. 1553–1567 (2016)
30. Kalyanasundaram, B., Schintger, G.: The probabilistic communication complexity
of set intersection. SIAM J. Discret. Math. 5(4), 545–557 (1992)
31. Kane, D.M., Nelson, J., Woodruﬀ, D.P.: On the exact space complexity of sketching
and streaming small norms. In: Proceedings of the Twenty-First Annual ACM-
SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms, pp. 1161–1178. SIAM (2010)
32. Mead, D.G.: Newton’s identities. Am. Math. Mon. 99(8), 749–751 (1992)
33. Nelson, J.J.O.: Sketching and streaming high-dimensional vectors. Ph.D. thesis,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (2011)
34. Ostrovsky, R., Shoup, V.: Private information storage. In: Proceedings of the
Twenty-Ninth Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, pp. 294–303
(1997)
35. Popa, R.A., Balakrishnan, H., Blumberg, A.J.: VPriv: protecting privacy in
location-based vehicular services. In: USENIX Security, pp. 335–350 (2009)
36. Razborov, A.A.: On the distributional complexity of disjointness. In: Paterson,
M.S. (ed.) ICALP 1990. LNCS, vol. 443, pp. 249–253. Springer, Heidelberg (1990).
https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0032036
37. Toubiana, V., Narayanan, A., Boneh, D., Nissenbaum, H., Barocas, S.: Adnostic:
privacy preserving targeted advertising. In: NDSS (2010)
38. Viola, E.: The communication complexity of addition. Combinatorica 35(6), 703–
747 (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/s00493-014-3078-3

