Augmented Random Oracles
Mark Zhandry1,2(B)
1 NTT Research, Sunnyvale, USA
mark.zhandry@ntt-research.com
2 Princeton University, Princeton, USA
Abstract. We propose a new paradigm for justifying the security of
random oracle-based protocols, which we call the Augmented Random
Oracle Model (AROM). We show that the AROM captures a wide range
of important random oracle impossibility results. Thus a proof in the
AROM implies some resiliency to such impossibilities. We then consider
three ROM transforms which are subject to impossibilities: Fiat-Shamir
(FS), Fujisaki-Okamoto (FO), and Encrypt-with-Hash (EwH). We show
in each case how to obtain security in the AROM by strengthening the
building blocks or modifying the transform.
Along the way, we give a couple other results. We improve the assump-
tions needed for the FO and EwH impossibilities from indistinguishabil-
ity obfuscation to circularly secure LWE; we argue that our AROM still
captures this improved impossibility. We also demonstrate that there is
no “best possible” hash function, by giving a pair of security proper-
ties, both of which can be instantiated in the standard model separately,
which cannot be simultaneously satisﬁed by a single hash function.
1
Introduction
The random oracle model (ROM) [BR93] treats a cryptographic hash function as
a random function, and is a crucial tool for analyzing the security of cryptosys-
tems that otherwise lack a “standard model” security proof. This model captures
most practical cryptographic techniques and attacks involving hash functions.
Constructions with ROM proofs are often far more eﬃcient than their standard-
model counterparts, and numerous applied cryptosystems utilize this model.
Unfortunately, there are numerous examples of ROM failures, schemes that
have been proven secure in the ROM but are insecure when the hash function
is instantiated. Starting with [CGH98], the most problematic such failures are
uninstantiability results, where the protocol is insecure under any instantiation
of the hash function. This makes it challenging to understand the meaning of
a ROM proof, and has lead to signiﬁcant debate (see e.g. [Gol06,KM15]). Nev-
ertheless, due to their eﬃciency, schemes with only ROM proofs remain widely
deployed.
This practice is often justiﬁed by observing that ROM uninstantiabilities
are typically contrived, deviating from standard cryptographic design. However,
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
Y. Dodis and T. Shrimpton (Eds.): CRYPTO 2022, LNCS 13509, pp. 35–65, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15982-4_2

36
M. Zhandry
there are also examples of natural uninstantiabilities, even those for design struc-
tures widely used in practice, though this has never lead to actual real-world
attacks. We will discuss several examples later in this work. In light of this
state-of-aﬀairs, it is important to further understand the security of ROM pro-
tocols.
Techniques for uninstantiability results. Digging deeper, all known ROM unin-
stantiability results make essential use of non-black-box techniques. They use
that real hash functions have code which can be plugged into tools like proof
systems, fully homomorphic encryption, program obfuscation, etc. Random ora-
cles, by contrast, cannot be plugged into such tools as they have no code. The
ROM uninstantiabilities therefore embed a trigger that can only be accessed by
feeding the hash function code into such a tool; this trigger completely breaks
security.
More generally, even when considering non-black box tools, essentially all
cryptographic techniques use the component systems as black boxes. Even
though non-black box tools take programs as input, the programs themselves
only treat the component as a black box. The application of these tools does not
care about the actual code of components, other than the fact that it has code
in the ﬁrst place. Of course, the implementation of the non-black-box tool will
operate on the actual code at the gate or instruction level, but the tool abstracts
all this away. The application of the tool only cares that the code exists.
1.1
Augmented Random Oracles
In this work, with the goal of eliminating uninstantiability results, we propose
a new paradigm for studying ROM constructions that we call the Augmented
Random Oracle Model (AROM). In addition to a random oracle O, we add a
second oracle M, which will model the various non-black-box tools that ROM
impossibilities may try to employ. Like O, M will be a function sampled from a
distribution1. However, to model tools that can be applied to the code of concrete
hash function (which is now an oracle), we will have M be oracle aided, meaning
it can make queries to O. Making queries is the only way M can learn information
from O. Looking ahead, we will often have M take as input programs that
themselves query O; M can then evaluate such programs by making queries to
O. In this way, we can treat O as having code—namely the instruction to make a
query—while still representing O as an oracle, thus capturing the aforementioned
non-black-box techniques within our idealized model.
Asharov and Segev [AS15] consider a similar model, but for an entirely dif-
ferent purpose. They propose a model for indistinguishability obfuscation (iO),
where M obfuscates programs that can make queries to O. Such M accepts
obfuscate queries, which take as input the description of an (oracle-aided) pro-
gram P O, and outputs a string ˜P, derived via a private random permutation.
1 Once M is sampled, it is ﬁxed an immutable, keeping no state. Though M is stateless,
it can still implement potentially stateful cryptographic objects, by having any state
be an explicit input and output of M. Modeling M as stateless reﬂects the real world,
where the speciﬁcation of a cryptographic primitive does not change over time.

Augmented Random Oracles
37
M also accepts evaluate queries, which take ˜P and an input x, and compute
P O(x). Note that M must make queries to O in order to implement evaluate
queries. The authors argue that this model captures many of the techniques for
using iO. [AS15] use this model to reason about the limits of iO.
As this oracle captures many techniques based on iO, setting M in this way
would capture many uninstantiability results based on iO, such as [BFM15] as
discussed below. However, we do not want to commit to a single tool. This
is for several reasons. The Asharov-Segev model, for example, makes speciﬁc
choices, such as the fact that M does not apply to programs that themselves
can make M queries, or that M operates on oracle-aided circuits as opposed
to Turing machines. There are also many other non-black-box tools such as
proof systems, garbled circuits, fully homomorphic encryption, etc. Asharov and
Segev speciﬁcally mention the case of NIZKs, as many iO applications involve
NIZKs but are not captured in their model. Worse, new non-black-box tools may
arise, necessitating new models. We therefore allow M to be any oracle, which
automatically captures any tool of this nature and any modeling that may arise.
In this sense, we can think of M adversarially. We will make one important
restriction, however: M can only make a polynomial number of queries to O,
corresponding to the tool being eﬃcient.
On the other hand, we do not want to rely these black-box tools when design-
ing cryptosystems. First, they are computationally expensive. Moreover, since
M is essentially adversarial, we do not want to have to assume any particu-
lar structure of M; M could always output 0. We will therefore insist that the
system we design, and hence also the security game, only makes queries to O
but not M. Thus we only consider constructions that make sense in the plain
random oracle model, but we hope that the new model will better capture their
security. A visualization of the plain and augmented models are given in Fig. 1.
Fig. 1. The plain ROM (L) vs the Augmented ROM (R).
So far, the AROM appears rather useless: by having the adversary simulate
M for itself, the AROM collapses to the standard ROM. We will now see an
important setting where the AROM is meaningful.
AROM for Transforms. In a ROM transform, a building block Π (or potentially
multiple building blocks) is transformed into a diﬀerent cryptosystem Γ using
a random oracle. We note ROM transforms are widespread, and even schemes
that appear to be direct constructions can often be phrased as transforms from
appropriate abstractions. Examples include RSA (trapdoor permutations) or

38
M. Zhandry
Diﬃe-Hellman (cryptographic groups). Moreover, uninstantiability results such
as [CGH98] are most often phrased as transforms from the appropriate build-
ing blocks (e.g. CS proofs [Mic94] and signatures in the case of [CGH98]). In
fact, phrasing a construction as a transform is generally the preferred way to
model constructions, as it allows for utilizing abstractions, resulting in a better
conceptual understanding of the results and more general security proofs.
Well-known uninstantiabilities for ROM transforms include Fiat-Shamir
(FS) [FS87] as proved by [GK03], and Encrypt-with-Hash (EwH) [BBO07] and
Fujisaki-Okamoto (FO) [FO99], as shown by [BFM15]. These ROM failures for
transforms are notable for being for natural and even widely deployed.
For transforms, the picture in Fig. 1 changes. Recall that a transform must
result in a secure Γ, regardless of the instantiation of the building block Π, as
long as Π satisﬁes the prescribed security property. Since the security of the
transform quantiﬁes over all Π, we can think of Π itself as adversarial. ROM
transform uninstantiabilities work exactly by designing a contrived Π that makes
the transform fail. In the plain ROM, this gives Fig. 2 (L). In the AROM, the
transform still only queries O, but now Π may use M to employ non-black box
techniques. Therefore, Π makes queries to M, as in Fig. 2 (R).
Fig. 2. Plain ROM transforms (L) vs Augmented ROM transforms (R). Some authors
model the building block as having access to O while others do not; in Sect. 1.4 we
argue that the best modeling would give access to O, and so we adopt this convention
in the AROM
Now we see that the AROM is not trivially equivalent to the ROM. Con-
cretely, the security of the building block may rely on the fact that M is sam-
pled from a distribution. For example, the M above for implementing iO is only
secure because the obfuscator utilizes a private random permutation. In order to
maintain security, this permutation must be hidden from the adversary. There-
fore, there is no way for the adversary to simulate the M on its own. Indeed,
we will argue that the AROM captures all existing uninstantiability results for
ROM transforms, by having M model the appropriate non-black box techniques.
This does not mean that the AROM is not subject to uninstantiability results,
since it is equivalent to the ROM for direct constructions. More generally, one
can take any uninstantiability result, even for transforms, and instantiate the
building blocks with particular constructions from the literature, arriving at a

Augmented Random Oracles
39
direct ROM uninstantiability result, which would then also be an AROM unin-
stantiability.
However, suppose we have a transform that is fully abstracted, in the sense
that any cryptography being performed is abstracted underneath an appropriate
building block that is input to the transform2. Then we argue that all known
uninstantiability results for random oracles are captured by the AROM, in the
sense that, if fully abstracted, the transform would be correctly labeled as inse-
cure in the AROM. This is because, for any such result, there will be an M
which can securely provide all the necessary building blocks, but also the non-
black box techniques used, where we replace any time the code of the hash
function is used with the instruction to query O. This includes [CGH98] and
also the uninstantiability for FS [GK03], where M implements CS proofs on
programs that can query O. It also includes the uninstantiability of EwH and
FO [BFM15], where M implements an indistinguishability obfuscator. In fact,
for any known uninstantiability of the random oracle, when fully abstracted,
there is an appropriate M that models the building blocks, resulting in an inse-
cure protocol in the AROM. See Sect. 4.3, where we work through the case of
EwH.
Thus, for any fully abstracted protocol, security in the AROM demonstrates
immunity to known uninstantiability techniques, and oﬀers the most compelling
evidence known for real-world security. Of course, this does not actually prove
security in the standard model or completely rule out uninstantiability results,
but it implies that brand new techniques would be needed to invalidate security.
1.2
Best Possible Hash Functions?
A quick detour before getting to our results. There have been numerous works
on circumventing ROM impossibilities, or at least making ROM proofs more
believable. Here, we discuss one, initiated by Canetti [Can97], which seeks to
identify and instantiate random oracle security properties using concrete, usu-
ally algebraic, hash functions. Examples include oracle hashing [Can97], non-
malleable point obfuscation [KY18,BMZ19], various forms of correlation resis-
tance [CCR16,GOR11], and Full Domain Hash [HSW14], to name a few.
A major downside of these results is eﬃciency. In essentially all cases, the
construction is far less eﬃcient than standard hash functions such as SHA2,
sometimes being entirely impractical. In addition, the computational assump-
tions underlying these ROM-free constructions can be quite strong, and it is not
clear if the standard model result is actually “more secure.”
In light of these downsides, a standard-model instantiation of a ROM protocol
may be considered a proof of concept, showing that such an application is likely
to exist. This could be seen as additional justiﬁcation for the security (or at
2 We do not attempt formalize full abstracted here, as it appears challenging. Do
information-theoretic objects, such as even a simple XOR, count? We instead leave
the notion as a general intuitive property, and we expect that whether or not a given
protocol is fully abstracted will usually be clear. All the transforms we consider in
this work are certainly fully abstracted.

40
M. Zhandry
least, lack of impossibility) for the more eﬃcient ROM protocol. Implicit in this
interpretation is the following assumption: if a security property holds for some
hash function, then it also holds for a suﬃciently well-designed hash function,
perhaps SHA2. That is, SHA2 is a “best possible” hash function, in that any
security property which holds for some hash function will hold for SHA23. This
sounds plausible, even in light of the various ROM impossibility results, as no
poly-time attacks have been found on SHA2 that does not also apply to all hash
functions. We ask, is such an interpretation reasonable?
1.3
Our Results
– In Sect. 3 we formally deﬁne the AROM.
– We then use the EwH transform as a case study to demonstrate the power of
the AROM. In Sect. 4.3, we explain how the AROM captures the uninstan-
tiability of EwH, in the sense that the transform is insecure in the AROM,
like in the real world.
– In Sect. 4.4, we show the EwH uninstantiability result can be generalized to
work under a circular security assumption on LWE, as opposed to needing the
full power of indistinguishability obfuscation. Concretely, our impossibility
uses fully homomorphic encryption and obfuscation for compute-and-compare
programs [GKW17,WZ17]. The improvement also readily adapts to the FO
transform. This further demonstrates the need for a model which captures a
variety of non-black-box tools.
– In Sect. 4.6, we show that EwH is secure in the AROM, if the underly-
ing encryption scheme is strengthened to be lossy [BHY09]. Lossy encryp-
tion can still be constructed eﬃciently from most standard tools. We note
that the security we prove likely cannot be proven secure in the standard
model [Wic13], so some form of idealized model is inherent. Our proof oﬀers
the strongest justiﬁcation yet for security.
– In the Full Version [Zha22], we additionally study the FO and FS transforma-
tions, demonstrating that both are insecure in the AROM, again capturing
the known uninstantiabilities. For FS, we show that it is sound in the AROM
if the underlying proof has statistical soundness. Like EwH, FS even for such
proofs likely cannot be proven secure in the standard model [BDG+13], neces-
sitating some idealized model. Our proof oﬀers the strongest justiﬁcation yet
for security in this case. We note that zero knowledge of plain Fiat-Shamir
cannot be proved, since this would give NIZKs without a CRS. We explore
several ways of obtaining zero knowledge by introducing a CRS.
For FO, we observe that it is not secure in the AROM, even if the underlying
encryption scheme is lossy. We therefore propose (Sect. 5.1) a new encryp-
tion scheme, which can be seen as a variant of the CCA-secure scheme
of Dolev, Dwork, and Naor [DDN91], but with the zero knowledge proof
replaced by an EwH-style structure. We prove CCA security of our scheme
3 There will always be functionalities that SHA2 or other hash functions cannot
achieve. This assumption is only about security properties that apply to any hash
function.

Augmented Random Oracles
41
under the assumed lossiness of the underlying encryption scheme; CCA secu-
rity is not known to follow from lossy encryption in the standard model. Our
results for FO and FS are sketched in Sects. 5 and 6, with the details deferred
to the Full Version [Zha22].
– In Sect. 7, we provide a pair of natural security properties for hash functions,
namely auxiliary input one-wayness and something we call anti-lossiness.
These properties can be satisﬁed by standard-model constructions, and are
both trivially satisﬁed by random oracles. However, we show that these prop-
erties cannot both be satisﬁed simultaneously by any real hash function,
assuming virtual grey box (VGB) obfuscation [BCKP14]. This implies that
SHA2 (or any hash for that matter) cannot be a “best possible” hash. In the
AROM, only one of the two properties—namely anti-lossiness—hold for O,
consistent with the standard model. This gives further support to the utility
of our model, and also indicates that SHA2 (or any hash function plausibly
modeled as a random oracle) is likely not auxiliary input one-way.
1.4
A Classiﬁcation of ROM Failures
Besides uninstantiability results, there are a number of other known ROM fail-
ures. Here, we broadly organize known ROM failures into ﬁve types, and discuss
what they mean and their relevance to the AROM.
Type 1 (∃∃). Here, there exists a speciﬁc protocol with a ROM proof and also
a speciﬁc hash function H, such that setting O = H makes the protocol insecure.
A well-known example is the length-extension attack when using Merkle-
Damg˚ard as MACs without appropriate padding. Another example is the circu-
larly secure encryption scheme Enc(k, m) = (r, O(k, r)⊕m), which was proven in
the ROM [BRS03], but is insecure when O is replaced with Davies-Meyer [HK07].
For Type 1 failures, the insecurity may point to an issue with the protocol,
the hash, or both. However, we observe that in most cases, the particular hash
function is not indiﬀerentiable [MRH04] from a random oracle (see [CDMP05] for
Merkle-Damg˚ard, [KM07] for Davies-Meyer). Indiﬀerentiability has become an
important consideration for hash functions, and so an indiﬀerentiability failure
should be interpreted as a weakness of the hash function. In particular, using an
indiﬀerentiable hash function seems to solve the problem.
More generally, any Type 1 failure will point to a hash function design struc-
ture that, if avoided, would block the attack. Such a design structure may then
be considered sub-optimal from a security standpoint.
Type 2 (∀∃). Here, for any possible hash function H, there exists a protocol
with a ROM proof such that setting O = H makes the protocol insecure.
Type 2 failures were already pointed out by [BR93]. For a typical example, consi-
der the Encrypt-with-Hash (EwH) transform Enc′(pk, m) = Enc(pk, m; O(pk, m))
which converts a randomized public key encryption scheme into a deterministic
one by setting the random coins to O(pk, m) [BBO07]. For any concrete hash

42
M. Zhandry
function H, there is an Enc that renders the transform trivially insecure when
O = H: Enc(pk, m; r) checks if r = O(pk, m) and if so outputs m in the clear.
For Type 2 failures, we observe that the ROM security is an artifact of the
ROM modeling: concretely, when [BBO07] prove ROM security, they assume
that Enc cannot make queries to O. But certainly a real-world encryption scheme
may evaluate a given hash function. In fact, since there are a limited number
of standardized hash functions, it is even expected that diﬀerent components of
a cryptosystem may use the same hash. So a better modeling would allow Enc
to query O, in which case EwH is trivially insecure in the ROM for the same
reasons as in the standard model. Therefore, Type 2 failures can be seen as
demonstrating an issue with the particular protocol design, but not the random
oracle itself if properly modeled. Instead, it shows that the scheme should never
have been considered to have a ROM proof in the ﬁrst place.
We observe that our AROM always allows the building block to query O
(since M may implement a query-forwarding functionality), so failures of this
sort are captured by the AROM, in the sense that such protocols will not
have AROM proofs. We note that a tweaked EwH, namely Enc′(pk′, m) =
Enc(pk, m; O(s, m) ) for pk′ = (pk, s) and a uniformly random s would be
secure in the ROM, even if Enc can make random oracle queries. The reason,
essentially, is that the random s enforces domain separation, since Enc would
almost certainly never evaluate O on inputs of the form (s, m). Nevertheless, the
impossibility of [BFM15] still applies to the tweaked EwH.
Type 3 (∃∀). Here, there exists a protocol with a ROM proof that is insecure
under any possible instantiation of the hash function.
These are the uninstantiability results motivating our AROM. As observed
above, for fully abstracted transforms, no known Type 3 failures apply to the
AROM.
Type 4 (Simulation-based). Here, security is deﬁned via a simulator, and in
the ROM the simulator is allowed to program the random oracle.
Examples include non-interactive zero knowledge without a CRS [Pas03] and
non-interactive non-committing encryption [Nie02], both of which exist in the
ROM under this modeling of simulators, but not in the real world. The intuition
for these failures is that, in the standard model, the simulator is usually required
to have extra power relative to the adversary—such as being able to program a
CRS or generate transcript messages out of order—in order to not be trivially
impossible. Since the adversary cannot program the random oracle, allowing the
simulator such programming ability is another form of extra power, allowing it
to circumvent standard-model impossibilities without having to resort to CRS’s
or out-of-order transcript generation. This allows for attainable simulation-based
deﬁnitions that are impossible in the standard model.
One problem with Type 4 failures is that the random oracle is baked into the
security deﬁnition since the deﬁnition must model the simulator’s ability to pro-
gram the random oracle. This makes the ROM deﬁnition actually distinct from
the standard model deﬁnition. Failures of this type are typically easily avoided

Augmented Random Oracles
43
by better modeling of the ROM: allow the simulator to make random oracle
queries, and even see the adversary’s queries, but do not allow the simulator to
actually program the random oracle. The resulting deﬁnition then closely mir-
rors the standard model, and the only options available to give the simulator the
needed extra power are generally the same strategies as in the standard model.
For these reasons, we advocate similar modeling of simulators in the AROM.
Type 5 (Proof impossibilities). Here, it is proved that, for some protocol
with a ROM proof, there cannot be any standard-model proof relative to any
hash function, at least with respect to certain classes of constructions, proof
strategies, and/or underlying computational assumptions.
A well-known example is Full-Domain Hash (FDH), where [DOP05] show that
there is no proof of security in the standard model that makes fully black box use
of the trapdoor permutation. A wide class of examples of this type are impossi-
bilities of security proofs relative to “falsiﬁable” assumptions. Examples include
Fiat-Shamir even when restricted to statistically sound proofs4 [BDG+13], suc-
cinct non-interactive arguments (SNARGs) [GW11], and correlated input secu-
rity [Wic13]. We note that correlated input security is in particular implied by
the notion of security we prove in the AROM for EwH.
With Type 5 examples, no actual insecurity is shown, just a barrier to proving
security. It could therefore be that the examples are in fact secure, but just
cannot be demonstrated secure by standard model arguments. An optimistic
interpretation is that such examples are actually demonstrating limits of the
usual paradigm for provable security, with the ROM oﬀering a way to plausibly
justify the security of such protocols. However, in light of Type 3 failures, a
pessimistic interpretation could simply be that Type 5 examples are simply
insecure. The right answer probably lies somewhere between.
Nevertheless, protocol designs subject to Type 5 failures have been conﬁ-
dently used in practice, such as Fiat-Shamir (not to mention FDH and SNARGs).
It is therefore important to try to justify their security despite such Type 5 fail-
ures. We can therefore view the AROM as oﬀering additional support for the
security of such schemes. This is particularly relevant for our AROM proofs of
EwH and Fiat-Shamir for statistically sound proofs, as a standard-model security
justiﬁcation is infeasible.
1.5
Discussion: Do We Really Need Another ROM Variant?
There have been many attempts to rectify the issues with the ROM, each with
their own advantages as disadvantages. Numerous works remove the random ora-
cle entirely from a cryptosystem, such as Boneh and Boyen [BB04] for IBE. But
such results typically lose signiﬁcant eﬃciency, and sometimes require stronger
assumptions as well. The aforementioned program initiated by Canetti [Can97]
shows how to instantiate certain ROM properties, but likewise results in inef-
ﬁcient hash functions and often requires strong assumptions. One might be
4 The Type 3 counterexample of [GK03] uses computationally sound protocols.

44
M. Zhandry
tempted to use such results as proofs of concept and then just use SHA2 to
instead, but our results on incompatible security properties show that this is
unsound in general.
Both programs also suﬀer from the fact that they cannot bypass certain
limitations of the standard-model, such as the Type 5 ROM failures discussed
above. In order to justify the security of these examples, something is needed
beyond the standard model.
Another approach is to identify a broad class of standard-model security
notions, and posit that a hash function simultaneously satisﬁes the entire class.
One example are universal computational extractors (UCEs) [BHK13]. However,
it appears challenging to deﬁne a natural broad class of security notions that are
exempted from ROM failures. In particular, the UCE assumption of [BHK13] is
subject to the Type 3 failure from EwH.
This leaves other reﬁnements to the ROM. The non-programmable ROM
(npROM) [Nie02,FLR+10] prevents the reduction from programming O in any
way, but can still allows it to see the adversary’s queries. The hope is that this
more closely captures standard-model hash functions “behaving like” random
functions, since standard-model functions cannot be programmed. A comple-
mentary model due to Ananth and Bhaskar [AB12] is the non-observable ROM
(noROM), where the adversary can adaptively program but cannot observe.
They also consider the intersection of the two models, the nonpROM.
These reﬁnements are intuitively appealing. But there is little theoretical
justiﬁcation for preferring them over the plain ROM. Type 3 failures also still
apply: the CPA security of EwH [BBO07] can be proven in the nonpROM, and
yet we know the transform is insecure in general5.
Our model, by contrast, is speciﬁcally shown to circumvent all known
Types 2, 3, and 4 failures for fully abstracted transforms, and the other fail-
ures can be handled by using a suﬃciently well-designed hash function and
making optimistic-yet-plausible assumptions. We thus obtain some of the most
compelling justiﬁcations known for several cryptosystems.
2
Preliminaries
2.1
Cryptosystems and Games
A cryptosystem is a tuple of stateless deterministic algorithms Π. A speciﬁcation
for a cryptosystem is a collection G of game/probability pairs (G, p), where G
take a security parameter 1λ as input and outputs a bit b, and p takes a security
parameter 1λ as input and outputs a real number in [0, 1]. Each G interacts
with a cryptosystem Π and adversary A. We also assume G indicates whether
adversaries are computationally bounded or unbounded. We will write b ←(A ↔
GΠ)(1λ) to denote the interaction. The advantage of A when interacting with
5 Bellare et al. [BBO07] do not claim either noROM or npROM. Yet the proof in the
CPA case can be veriﬁed to work in both models by inspection.

Augmented Random Oracles
45
GΠ is a function of λ deﬁned as AdvA,GΠ(λ) := Pr[1 ←(A ↔GΠ)(1λ)] −p(λ).
Games model both security properties and correctness properties.
Many cryptosystems will use random coins, which we model as an explicit
input. Games will be responsible for choosing the random coins. We will often
distinguish random coins from other inputs by separating them with a semicolon,
e.g. Π(x; r). We will write Π(x) to be the distribution Π(x; r) for uniform r. A
function is negligible if it is asymptotically smaller than any inverse polynomial.
Deﬁnition 2.1. A cryptosystem Π securely implements a speciﬁcation G if, for
all (G, p) ∈G and for all adversaries A, there exists a negligible function negl
such that AdvA,GΠ(λ) ≤negl(λ).
Transforms. A transform is a method T of compiling a cryptosystem Π securely
implementing a speciﬁcation G into another cryptosystem Γ securely implement-
ing a speciﬁcation H. We write Γ = T Π.
Deﬁnition 2.2. A transform T from G to H is secure if, for all Π which securely
implement G, T Π securely implements H.
Single-stage games. Usually, A is a single adversary that can keep arbitrary state
throughout its interaction with G. We will call these single-stage games. Some
games place restrictions on the state A can keep. We call such games multi-stage.
2.2
Cryptographic Deﬁnitions
An ℓ= ℓ(λ)-source is a distribution is a family of eﬃciently sampleable distribu-
tions D(1λ) over tuples (x1, . . . , xℓ, aux).
Deﬁnition 2.3 (Unpredictability). A 1-source (x, aux) ←D(1λ) is compu-
tationally (resp. statistically) unpredictable if, for all polynomial time (resp.
unbounded) A, Pr[A(aux) = x : (x, aux) ←D(1λ)] is negligible.
An ℓ-source (ℓ> 1) is computationally (resp. statistically) unpredictable (1)
if each marginal distribution (xi, aux) for i ∈[ℓ] is computationally unpredictable,
and (2) except with negligible probability the xi are all distinct.
Deﬁnition 2.4 (Anti-lossiness). A keyed function H : {0, 1}λ × {0, 1}m(λ) →
{0, 1}n(λ) is anti-lossy if, for all sequences (kλ)λ for kλ ∈{0, 1}λ, the 1-source
(H(kλ, x), aux = {}) where x ←{0, 1}m(λ) is statistically unpredictable. In other
words, there are no keys which make H lose too much information.
Deﬁnition 2.5 (One-wayness with correlated inputs). A keyed function
H : {0, 1}λ × {0, 1}m(λ) →{0, 1}n(λ) is one-way against correlated inputs if, for
all computationally unpredictable ℓ-sources D and all polynomial-time A,
Pr

∃i, H(k, x′) = yi :
k←{0,1}λ
(x1,...,xℓ,aux)←D
x′←A(k,y1=H(k,x1),...,yℓ=H(k,xℓ),aux)

< negl(λ) .
That is, given aux and all the yi = H(k, xi), it is intractable to invert any of the
yi. H is one-way against auxiliary input if the above holds only for 1-sources.

46
M. Zhandry
Deﬁnition 2.6 (Pseudorandomness with correlated inputs). A keyed
function H : {0, 1}λ × {0, 1}m(λ) →{0, 1}n(λ) is pseudorandom against correla-
ted inputs if, for all computationally unpredictable ℓ-sources and all polynomial-
time A,

Pr
⎡
⎣b′ = b :
b←{0,1},k←{0,1}λ
(x1,...,xℓ,aux)←D
yi,0←H(k,xi),yi,1←{0,1}n(λ)∀i
b′←A(k,y1,b,...,yℓ,b,aux)
⎤
⎦−1/2

< negl(λ) .
In other words, the vector of yi = H(k, xi) is pseudorandom, even though the xi
are correlated and aux is given. H is pseudorandom against auxiliary input if
the above holds only for 1-sources.
Public key encryption (PKE). A PKE scheme is a triple Π = (Gen, Dec, Enc)
such that (pk, sk) ←Gen(1λ) = Gen(1λ; r), c ←Enc(pk, m) = Enc(pk, m; r) and
m′ ←Dec(sk, c). We require correctness, which insists that for every message m,
Pr[Dec(sk, Enc(pk, m)) = m : (pk, sk) ←Gen(1λ)] ≥1 −negl(λ).
Deﬁnition 2.7 (CPA and CCA security). A PKE scheme Π is CCA secure
if all polynomial time A have negligible advantage in the following game:
– On input 1λ, the game samples (pk, sk) ←Gen(1λ) and sends pk to A.
– A makes CCA queries on ciphertexts c, and receives m ←Dec(sk, c).
– At some point, A produces two messages m∗
0, m∗
1 ∈{0, 1}∗of equal length.
– The game samples a random bit b and replies with c∗←Enc(pk, m∗
b).
– A can continue making CCA queries, as long as c ̸= c∗.
– A ﬁnally sends a guess b′ for b. The advantage of A is | Pr[b′ = b] −1/2|.
Π is CPA secure if the above only holds against A that cannot make CCA queries.
Deﬁnition 2.8 (Lossy Encryption [BHY09] ). A PKE scheme Π is lossy if
there is an additional algorithm pk ←GenLossy(1λ) such that:
– pk ←GenLossy(1λ) is comp. indist. from pk where (pk, sk) ←Gen(1λ).
– Let Dm be the distribution (pk, Enc(pk, m)) where pk ←GenLossy(1λ). Then
for any messages m, m′ of the same length, Dm, Dm′ are statistically close.
Deﬁnition 2.9 (Fully Homomorphic Encryption). A PKE scheme Π is
fully homomorphic if there is an additional algorithm Eval(pk, c, f) that outputs
ciphertexts, such that for all m and all functions f represented as circuits, the
following hold:
length( Eval(pk, Enc(pk, m), f) ) = length( Enc(pk, f(m)) ), and
Pr

Dec(sk, c′) = f(m) :
(pk,sk)←Gen(1λ)
c←Enc(pk,m)
c′←Eval(pk,c,f)

≥1 −negl(λ) .

Augmented Random Oracles
47
Deterministic Encryption. A deterministic PKE scheme is plain PKE, except
that Enc is deterministic. Deterministic PKE can only be secure for unpredictable
messages, formalized by PRIV security [BBO07]:
Deﬁnition 2.10 (PRIV-CPA and PRIV-CCA). A det. PKE scheme Π is
strongly (resp. weakly6) PRIV CCA secure if for all computationally (resp. sta-
tistically) unpred. ℓ-sources D, all polynomial time A have negligible advantage
in the following game:
– On input 1λ, the game samples (pk, sk) ←Gen(1λ) and sends pk to A.
– It samples (m∗
1,0, . . . , m∗
ℓ,0) ←D and random distinct m∗
1,1, . . . , m∗
ℓ,1.
– It samples a random bit b, and sends c∗
1, . . . , c∗
ℓwhere c∗
i ←Enc(pk, m∗
i,b).
– A makes CCA queries on c /∈{c∗
1, . . . , c∗
ℓ}; it receives m ←Dec(sk, c).
– A ﬁnally sends guess b′ for b. The advantage of A is | Pr[b′ = b] −1/2|.
Π is strongly/weakly PRIV-CPA secure if A cannot make CCA queries.
Obfuscation. An obfuscator Obf(1λ, C) is an eﬃcient randomized function which
maps circuits to circuits7. For correctness, we require that Obf(1λ, C)(x) = C(x)
for all λ, x. We will also consider obfuscators that only work on circuits of a
particular format. We now discuss two notions of security.
Deﬁnition 2.11 (VGB [BCKP14]). Obf is VGB secure if, for all polynomial-
time A, all polynomials s, and all inverse polynomials p, there exists a sim-
ulator S that is computationally unbounded but which can only make a poly-
nomial number of queries, such that for all circuits C of size at most s(λ),
| Pr[1 ←A(1λ, Obf(1λ, C))] −Pr[1 ←SC(1λ)]| < p(λ).
VGB obfuscation is not known under standard assumptions, but it appears
plausible that many existing iO constructions satisfy it. Regardless, ruling out
VGB obfuscation appears challenging. As we only use VGB for an impossibil-
ity, it is still meaningful even if none of the existing candidates are secure. A
weakening of VGB obfuscation is indistinguishability obfuscation (iO), which is
identical except that S can also be query unbounded. An equivalent formula-
tion of iO is that the obfuscations of equivalent programs are computationally
indistinguishable.
Deﬁnition 2.12 (CC security [GKW17,WZ17]). For a polynomial s, con-
sider the class of binary circuits of the form “Output 1 on input x if and only
if C(x) = y” where y ∈{0, 1}λ and C has size s. Call this circuit CCC,y(x).
An obfuscator Obf is a compute-and-compare (CC) obfuscator if it is correct for
this class of circuits, and satisﬁes the following security deﬁnition: there exists
an eﬃcient simulator S such that for all C and all eﬃcient A,
 Pr
	
1 ←A( ˜C) :
y←{0,1}λ
˜
C←Obf(1λ,CCC,y)

−Pr[1 ←A(S(1λ, 1s))]
 < negl(λ) .
Thas is, if y is random, the obfuscated program can be simulated without know-
ing C or y at all. [GKW17,WZ17] construct CC-secure obfuscation from LWE.
6 The original PRIV notion corresponds to the weak version.
7 We can also consider obfuscators for uniform computational models, but we will not
need to for this work.

48
M. Zhandry
3
The Augmented Random Oracle Model
3.1
The Plain ROM
In the plain ROM, there is a function O : {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}ℓ, where the output of
O on any input is chosen uniformly at random. All parties can make queries to
O. We call this distribution over oracles O8.
Complexity Metrics. A query x to O has cost |x|. The query complexity of an
algorithm is the total cost of all its queries. The computational complexity is the
sum of its query complexity and running time. Both the query and computational
complexities of an algorithm can be input-speciﬁc. Note the cost must increase
with input size to yield correct query complexity results for variable-length O.
Secure cryptosystems in the ROM. Speciﬁcations remain oracle-free, but now
the cryptosystem Π and adversary A can query O. We denote the interac-
tion b ←(AO ↔GΠO). A’s advantage is deﬁned as in the standard model,
except that the probability is over the choice of O ←O. Oracle-free speci-
ﬁcations means simulators in simulation-based deﬁnitions cannot program O,
departing from [BR93]. This modeling, however, automatically captures Type 4
failures [Nie02,Pas03].
Deﬁnition 3.1. An oracle-aided cryptosystem ΠO securely implements a spec-
iﬁcation G in the ROM if, for all (G, p) ∈G and for all oracle-aided adversaries
AO, there is a negligible negl such that AdvAO,GΠO (λ) ≤negl(λ).
Transforms in the ROM. Transforms in the ROM use random oracles. Often in
the literature, the underlying building block is prevented from making oracle
queries; we will make no such restriction. This models the real world, where the
building blocks could have themselves been built using hash functions.
Deﬁnition 3.2. An oracle-aided transform T between from G to H is secure in
the ROM if, for all oracle-aided cryptosystems ΠO which securely implement G
in the ROM, Γ O = T O,ΠO securely implements H in the ROM.
3.2
Augmented Random Oracles
In an augmented random oracle, ﬁrst a function O ←O is sampled. Additionally,
there is a distribution M over oracle-aided functions from which M ←M is sam-
pled. O and M are sampled independently. Then, parties are provided with the
oracles O and M O; that is, M’s own oracle is set to O. Once O, M are sampled,
they are deterministic and stateless. Looking ahead, M will provide one or more
abstract cryptosystems. M can still model stateful cryptosystems by having the
8 Note that the choice of ℓis arbitrary: one can obtain an O with ℓ-bit outputs from
an O′ with 1-bit outputs by setting O(x)i = O(x||i). One can even obtain O with
inﬁnite outputs in this way. Thus, all random oracles are equivalent.

Augmented Random Oracles
49
state be an additional input and output. M itself being stateless corresponds to
the typical real-world demand that abstract cryptosystem speciﬁcations do not
change over time. Note that the restriction to deterministic M is without loss of
generality, since any random coins can be provided as an additional input.
Query Complexity. We will treat M as outputting both the output, as well as an
arbitrary cost for the query, which may or may not depend on in the input-size
or complexity of answering the query. The query complexity of an algorithm
making queries to M, O will be the total cost of all direct queries, excluding
those M makes to O.
Complexity preserving. M is complexity preserving if the cost it outputs is at
least the query complexity of M when answering that query. In this case, the
query complexity of an algorithm is lower bounded by the total cost of all queries
made to O, including those made by M. There is no cost upper bound.
Simulatable. M is simulatable if, for any distinguisher D, there is an eﬃcient but
stateful oracle-aided algorithm SO such that D cannot distinguish the oracles
(O, M O) and (O, SO) except with negligible probability. Note that many oracles
are simulatable via lazy sampling, such as random oracles and generic groups.
Secure cryptosystems in the AROM. Speciﬁcations themselves still remain oracle-
free. Cryptosystems Π are allowed to make queries to O and M, which we denote
by ΠO,M O. We denote the interaction b ←(AO,M O ↔GΠO,MO
). The advantage
of A is deﬁned similarly to the standard model, except that the probability is
additionally over the choice of O ←O and M ←M.
Deﬁnition 3.3. An oracle-aided cryptosystem ΠO,M O securely implements a
speciﬁcation G in the M-AROM if, for all (G, p) ∈G and for all oracle-aided
adversaries AO,M O, there exists a negligible function negl such that the advantage
of AO,M O when interacting with GΠO,MO
is at most negl.
Looking ahead, when actually designing cryptosystems, we generally do not
want Π to make queries to M. This is because M will model non-black-box
techniques, which are generally ineﬃcient in practice. We denote such a protocol
by ΠO. In this case, we can quantify over all M, giving the unquantiﬁed AROM.
Here we do make restrictions on M: namely we require M to be complexity
preserving and simulatable.
Deﬁnition 3.4. An oracle-aided cryptosystem ΠO (making no queries to M)
securely implements G in the AROM (no quantiﬁcation by M) if it securely
implements G in the M-ROM for all complexity preserving simulatable M.
Transforms in the ROM. Transforms in the (unquantiﬁed) AROM make use of
O, but not M, for the same reasons as for cryptosystems. But we always allow
the input cryptosystems to query M. This will model transform failures, which
design input systems employing non-black-box techniques.

50
M. Zhandry
Deﬁnition 3.5. An oracle-aided transform T O,Π from G to H is secure in the
AROM if, for all complexity preserving simulatable M, and all oracle-aided
ΠO,M O which securely implement G in the M-AROM, Γ O,M O = T O,ΠO,MO
securely implements H in the M-AROM.
3.3
Some Basic Results
We show that for direct cryptosystems (not transforms), the AROM and ROM
are equivalent for single-stage games:
Theorem 3.6. If all games in G are single stage, then ΠO securely implements
a speciﬁcation G in the AROM if and only if it securely implements G in the
plain ROM.
An immediate corollary of Theorem 3.6 is that most standard-model properties
one assumes of hash functions hold for O in the AROM; for example:
Corollary 3.7. In the AROM, O is one-way, collision resistant, a pseudoran-
dom generator, and anti-lossy.
Note, however, that Theorem 3.6 does not apply to one-wayness against auxiliary
input, since that security deﬁnition is not single-stage. As we demonstrate in
Sect. 7, anti-lossiness and auxiliary input one-wayness are incompatible in the
standard model, and this incompatibility extends to the AROM. As such, O is
not auxiliary input one-way in the AROM. We now prove Theorem 3.6.
Proof. Setting M to always outputs 0, we see that AROM security readily
implies ROM security. In the other direction, consider any oracle distribution
M and adversary A in the AROM. We replace M with SH, only negligibly
aﬀecting the advantage of A. Now we merge S and A into a single adversary A′
for Π in the plain ROM. A′ is therefore still an adversary, provided the game
is single-stage since it must remember the state of S. The complexity of A′
is polynomially larger than the query complexity of A (since M is complexity
preserving). Therefore, the overall computational complexity of A′ is only poly-
nomially larger than that of A in the AROM. Its success probability is negligibly
close to that of A.
□
Note that, unlike or cryptosystems, Theorem 3.6 does not hold for transforms
because there is no way to simulate Π’s queries to M.
4
A Case Study: Encrypt-with-Hash
Here, we use the Encrypt-with-Hash (EwH) transform [BBO07] as a case study.
We will see how the uninstantiability result of [BFM15] works, how it the unin-
stantiability is captured by the AROM, and how to circumvent it. Along the way,
we will also see how the assumptions necessary to obtain the uninstantiability
can be improved, and how this improvement too is captured by the AROM.

Augmented Random Oracles
51
4.1
The (Tweaked) EwH Transform
We ﬁrst give the Encrypt-with-Hash transform.
Construction 4.1 (Tweaked Encrypt-with-Hash [BBO07]). Let ΠPKE =
(GenPKE, EncPKE, DecPKE) be a public key encryption scheme. Deﬁne ΠEWH =
(GenEWH
O, EncEWH
O, DecEWH
O), where
– GenEWH(1λ): Run (pkPKE, skPKE) ←GenPKE(1λ), sample s ←{0, 1}λ, and
output (pkEWH = (pkPKE, s), skEWH = (skPKE, pkEWH)).
– EncEWH(pkEWH, m) = EncPKE(pkPKE, m; O(s, m) )
– DecEWH(skEWH, c) = DecPKE(skPKE, c).
As discussed in Sect. 1.4, the original EwH transform did not have s, replac-
ing O(s, m) with O(pkPKE, m). However, such a construction gives rise to a much
simpler Type 3 failure. The problem is that the original transform is only secure
in the ROM if ΠPKE is not allowed to query O; if we model the random oracle
model as allowing ΠPKE to query O, then the transform is insecure. In order to
avoid that failure, we introduce the tweaked EwH transform given in Construc-
tion 4.1, which is secure in the ROM, even when ΠPKE can query O.
4.2
Uninstantiability of EwH
Now we explain the uninstantiability result of [BFM15], and how it can be readily
be captured in the AROM. Let Π′
PKE be any public key encryption scheme, G be
a pseudorandom generator, and Obf an obfuscator that is iO secure. [BFM15]
use Π′
PKE to build a new secure public key encryption scheme ΠPKE, such that
when ΠPKE is plugged into Construction 4.1, the resulting ΠEWH is insecure, thus
invalidating the transform in the standard model.
Construction 4.2 (EwH Uninstantiability). ΠPKE is constructed as follows:
– Gen = Gen′
– Enc(pkPKE, m; r = (r0, r1) ): Let y = G(r0) and run c′ ←Enc′(pkPKE, m; y).
Then run ˜P ←Obf(1λ, Pm,y; r1) where Pm,y(f) takes as input the code f for
some function, and checks if G(f(m)) = y; if so Pm,y outputs m, otherwise
it outputs ⊥. Finally output c = (c′, ˜P).
– Dec(sk, c = (c′, ˜P)): run Dec′(sk, c′).
[BFM15] prove the following, paraphrased into our terminology:
Theorem 4.3. If Construction 4.1 is applied to ΠPKE from Construction 4.2,
then the resulting ΠEWH is not weakly CPA-PRIV in the standard model, even
against 1-sources, regardless of the hash function used to instantiate O.
We sketch the proof. When ΠPKE is plugged into Construction 4.1, the resulting
cryptosystem is completely broken when the random oracle O is replaced by any
concrete hash function H. An adversary, given pkEWH = (pkPKE, s) and (c′, ˜P) ←

52
M. Zhandry
EncEWH(pkEWH, m) = EncPKE(pkPKE, m; H(s, m) ), constructs the code of the
function f(m′) which outputs r0 computed from (r0, r1) ←H(s, m′). Then it
runs ˜P(f). Recall that ˜P is an obfuscation of Pm,G(r0), and Pm,G(r0)(f) evaluates
G(f(m)), which for our f is exactly G(f(m)) = y, ˜P(f) outputs m.
It remains to show that ΠPKE is a secure public key encryption scheme. We
brieﬂy sketch the argument. By pseudorandomness of G, the ﬁrst step is to
replace y with uniformly random bits. At this point, since the image of G is
sparse, y is outside the image except with negligible probability. In such a case,
the function Pm,y is actually equivalent to the function that outputs ⊥on all
inputs. So by the security of the obfuscator (namely indistinguishability obfus-
cation, iO), ˜P can be replaced by an obfuscation of the program that outputs
⊥everywhere. At this point, ˜P contains no information about m or y, so m is
hidden by the assumed security of Π′
PKE.
4.3
Translation to the AROM
We now explain how the above is readily captured by the AROM. Concretely,
we will prove the following:
Theorem 4.4. For general CPA secure ΠPKE, the (tweaked) EwH is not weakly
CPA-PRIV in the AROM, even when restricting to 1-sources.
Proof. M will be the combination of three diﬀerent M’s: MPKE which imple-
ments a public key encryption scheme (in order to obtain Π′
PKE), MG which
implements a pseudorandom generator (to obtain G), and MObf, which imple-
ments an obfuscation scheme (in order to obtain iO).
MPKE. Here, we model an ideal public key encryption scheme, following [ZZ20].
Let K, E be random injections. We assume the inverse of an injection outputs
⊥if evaluated on a point not in the image. MPKE oﬀers three kinds of queries:
– gen queries: takes as input a string sk, and returns pk = K(sk).
– enc queries: takes as input pk, m, r, and returns E(pk, m, r)
– dec queries: takes as input sk, c. Compute d = I−1(c). If d ̸= ⊥, then parse
d = (pk, m, r). If pk = K(sk), then return m. Otherwise return ⊥.
Relative to MPKE, a public key encryption scheme Π′
PKE unconditionally exists:
Gen′ simply sets sk to be its random coins, and computes and outputs pk = K(sk)
by making a gen query. Then Enc′(pk, m; r) = E(pk, m, r) using an enc query,
and Dec′(sk, c) makes a dec query on sk, c to produce m. As explained by [ZZ20],
the resulting scheme is readily shown to be CPA secure (and much more) against
query-bounded adversaries.
MG. This is just an expanding random oracle. Namely, MG will just be an expand-
ing random oracle G, independent of K, E. Expanding random oracles are triv-
ially pseudorandom generators.

Augmented Random Oracles
53
MObf. This is the obfuscation model proposed by Asharov and Segev [AS15],
except extended to allow programs that also query MG. Let I be a random
injection. Then MObf will oﬀer two kinds of queries:
– obfuscate queries: takes as input the description of a program P and random
coins r; it returns ˜P = I(P, r).
– eval queries: takes as input a string ˜P and input x. Compute d ←I−1( ˜P).
If d ̸= ⊥, then parse d as P, r and output P(x). Otherwise output ⊥.
Importantly, we will allow the inputs P to obfuscate to be oracle-aided
programs, making queries to G and more importantly to O. During the com-
putation of P(x) in an eval query, MObf will forward queries to G to MG and
queries to O to the random oracle O. We can then have Obf(P; r) simply make
an obfuscate query on (P, r). It is straightforward that Obf is iO secure for such
oracle-aided programs, and even VGB secure. In fact, it is even virtual black box
(VBB) secure, which is known to be impossible in the standard model. However,
we only need that it is iO. In fact, we could replace MObf with any model that
implements obfuscation, so long as (1) the obfuscator was iO secure, and (2) the
input programs could query G and O.
The ﬁnal M is just the combination (MPKE, MG, MObf). At this point, the
proof of Theorem 4.4 proceeds almost identically to Sect. 4.2, with Π′
PKE instan-
tiated by MPKE, G instantiated by MG, and Obf instantiated by MObf. The main
diﬀerence is that we need f to be oracle-aided, making queries to O. In turn,
this means Pm,y must also be oracle-aided, now making queries to both O and
G. Fortunately, MObf acts on such oracle-aided programs. We derive ΠPKE as in
Construction 4.2, and security of ΠPKE, relative to M, follows by an identical
argument relying on the security of Π′
PKE, G, and Obf.
The attack is also quite similar. An adversary, given pkEWH = (pkPKE, s)
and (c′, ˜P) ←EncEWH(pkEWH, m) = EncPKE(pkPKE, m; O(s, m) ), constructs the
(oracle-aided) code of the function f(m′) with s hardcoded, which outputs r0
computed from (r0, r1) ←O(s, m′). This f makes queries to O.
Then it computes ˜P(f) by making an eval query on (P, f). MObf will respond
by computing Pm,y(f) where y = G(r0). Pm,y(f) evaluates G(f(m)), which for
our f is exactly y. Since G(f(m)) = y, the eval query outputs m in the clear.
This completes the proof of Theorem 4.4.
□
4.4
An Improved Uninstantiability
Here, we improve the computational assumptions needed for the uninstantiabil-
ity of EwH. While a potentially interesting fact on its own, our improvement
also illustrates the need for ﬂexibility in M in order for the AROM to capture a
wide variety of uninstantiability results.
Concretely, we show that it suﬃces to assume compute-and-compare obfus-
cation and fully homomorphic encryption, both of which can be instantiated
under circularly-secure LWE.

54
M. Zhandry
Construction 4.5 (Impossibility). Let Π = (Gen, Enc, Dec) be any public key
encryption scheme, Πfhe = (Genfhe, Encfhe, Decfhe, Evalfhe) be any FHE scheme,
and Obf a compute-and-compare obfuscator. Let G be a PRG. Deﬁne ΠPKE =
(GenPKE, EncPKE, DecPKE) to be the following
– GenPKE(1λ) = Gen(1λ).
– EncPKE(pk, m): choose a random r and compute c ←Enc(pk, m; r). Sample
(pkfhe, skfhe) ←Genfhe(1λ) and compute d ←Encfhe(pkfhe, m). Let y0 = G(r)
and y1 be uniformly random. Let b the ﬁrst bit of m. Finally let ˜P ←
Obf(1λ, CCG(Decfhe(skfhe, · )),yb) 9. Output (c, pkfhe, d, ˜P).
– DecPKE(sk, (c, pkfhe, d, ˜P) ): Output Dec(sk, c).
The following theorems prove the uninstantiability result; due to lack of space
we defer the proofs to the Full Version [Zha22].
Theorem 4.6. If Construction 4.1 is applied to ΠPKE from Construction 4.5,
then the resulting ΠEWH is not weakly CPA-PRIV in the standard model, even
against 1-sources, regardless of the hash function used to instantiate O.
Theorem 4.7. If Π is sub-exponentially CPA secure, Πfhe, Obf are polynomially
secure, and G is pseudorandom against sub-exponentially hard computationally
unpredictable sources, then ΠPKE is CPA secure.
Note that the necessary G can be constructed from sub-exponentially hard LWE,
following ideas from Brakerski and Segev [BS11] and Zhandry [Zha16].
4.5
Other Possible Oracles
Our improved uninstantiability result shows that it is also important to consider
oracles other than MObf, to adequately capture all the non-black-box techniques
that may be used. It is not diﬃcult to come up with oracles MFHE that imple-
ment fully homomorphic encryption, where the homomorphic operations may
include O gates. This allows the AROM to capture our improved uninstantiabil-
ity above. Another limitation of MObf pointed out by Asharov and Segev [AS15]
is that it fails to capture NIZKs, another common tool in constructions using
iO. In the AROM, we can easily create an oracle MNIZK that provides a NIZK
proof functionality for statements that involve queries to O. We can similarly
deﬁne oracles for any other non-black box tool applied to circuits that involve
O queries, and even oracles combining all of the above. Thus, as long as the
non-black-box techniques are simply using that the hash function has code that
can be run—but not using any particular features of that code—it seems that
all such techniques are captured by the AROM. Hence, AROM security provides
compelling resiliency to such techniques. This will be the focus of Sect. 4.6.
9 Recall CCG(Decfhe(skfhe, · )),yb is the program x →G(Decfhe(skfhe, x)) == yb.

Augmented Random Oracles
55
Non-examples. There are oracles that are non-examples. Most prominently would
be Simon’s oracle [Sim98], which ﬁnds collisions in functions without violating
one-wayness. This oracle makes exponentially-many queries to the random ora-
cle, thereby learning its entire truth table, and also cannot be eﬃciently simu-
lated in any way. More generally, Simon’s oracle is an example of the common
“two oracle trick” in black box separations, where one oracle implements a cryp-
tosystem B, but another oracle is designed to break any instantiation of C.
4.6
Overcoming ROM Failures for EwH
We now explain how to achieve deterministic encryption in the AROM, despite
known uninstantiability results for EwH working in the AROM.
At ﬁrst glance, proving security in the AROM appears non-trivial: how do you
reason about any possible oracle M, which may implement arbitrarily complex
functionalities? Imagine, for example, that M directly provides oracles imple-
menting a cryptosystem Π as in MPKE. But M knows the injections being used
to deﬁne the cryptosystem, meaning M itself can internally invert this injection,
learning the secret key for any public key. For a given transform T, one could
plausibly augment this M with a break functionality, that breaks Π whenever
it is used inside T, but leaves Π as secure when used “honestly.” Any security
proof would have to rule out such a M.
Now, the obvious solution is a reduction: showing that any adversary for
T Π can be converted into an attacker for Π. Thus, if M provided a mechanism
to break T Π, it would contradict that Π is secure. This is the approach we
follow. But in the AROM, devising a reduction is nevertheless non-trivial. If the
reduction could be performed exactly as it would in the standard model, there is
no need to work in the ROM or AROM in the ﬁrst place. So for the transforms
we consider, the reduction will be making non-trivial use of the random oracle O.
But it also cannot just freely program the random oracle seen by the adversary
as in typical ROM proofs: the reduction must result in an adversary for Π,
which makes queries to M (since that is how Π was constructed) which in turn
makes queries to O. Thus if we try re-programming O, it will be inconsistent
with the “true” O. Since the adversary has indirect access to the true O, this
re-programming could plausibly be detected, causing the adversary to abort.
How do we structure the proof in such a way that this detection is not possible,
regardless of the structure of M?
Looking ahead, our solution will ﬁrst use the security property of Π to move
to a hybrid; this step is a standard reduction and does not make any particular
use of the random oracle. Then in the hybrid, a statistical property will hold.
This statistical property allows us to establish some security against M itself,
which we then use to carefully program the random oracle, etc.
We now explore how to implement this vague idea in the case of EwH (Con-
struction 4.1) in order to make it secure. In particular, we consider strengthening
Π to being lossy (Deﬁnition 2.8). Observe that the uninstantiability of [BFM15]
detailed in Sect. 4.2 uses a non-lossy public key encryption scheme. Afer all, the
program ˜P is an obfuscation of Pm,y, which has the message m hard-coded.

56
M. Zhandry
While m is presumably hidden computationally, m determines the program’s
behavior and therefore is information-theoretically determined by ˜P. Thus, even
if, say, the original encryption scheme Π′
PKE were lossy, the resulting scheme in
Construction 4.2 will never be lossy.
We show that this limitation of [BFM15] is inherent: that EwH is weakly
CPA-PRIV in the AROM if using a lossy encryption scheme10. Since the tech-
niques of [BFM15] are captured by the AROM, we thus show that the techniques
cannot extend to EwH when using lossy encryption. We note that weak CPA-
PRIV implies correlated-input secure one-way functions, which Wichs [Wic13]
shows cannot be proved secure using black-box reductions to any falsiﬁable
assumption. This means some idealized model is necessary for security of EwH.
Theorem 4.8. If ΠPKE is lossy, then ΠEWH is weakly CPA-PRIV in the AROM.
Proof. Consider a distribution M over oracles M, and some lossy encryption
scheme ΠPKE = (GenPKE
O,M O, EncPKE
O,M O, DecPKE
O,M O, GenLossyPKE
O,M O) in
the M-AROM. Let ΠEWH
O,M O be the result of applying EwH to ΠPKE.
Consider an ℓ-source DO,M O, which we assume to be statistically unpre-
dictable in the M-AROM. Let AO,M O be a CPA-PRIV adversary with advan-
tage ϵ. We now deﬁne hybrids:
Hybrid 0. Here, A plays the CPA-PRIV game against Γ and D, with b = 0. This
means A receives aux and encryptions of m∗
i,0, where (m∗
1,0, . . . , m∗
ℓ,0, aux) ←
DO,M O(1λ). Let p0 be the probability A outputs 1.
Hybrid 1. Here, we switch pkPKE to be generated by pkPKE ←GenLossyPKE(1λ).
Let p1 be the probability A outputs 1. By the assumed lossiness of ΠPKE in the
M-AROM, we must have |p1 −p0| is negligible.
Hybrid 2. This is identical to Hybrid 1, except that the experiment immediately
aborts if GenLossy or D (when being run by the experiment) ever make a query
O(s, m∗
i,b) for some i ∈[ℓ], b ∈{0, 1}, or if they make a query to M that triggers
such a query to O. Here, m∗
i,1 are sampled as uniformly random distinct messages.
Let p2 be the probability A outputs 1. Notice that GenLossy and D only receive
1λ as input, and so are independent of s. Since M is complexity preserving and
GenLossy, D are eﬃcient, they can only trigger a polynomial number of queries
each, so the probability of such a query is negligible. Hence |p2 −p1| is negligible.
Observe that in Hybrid 2, the very ﬁrst queries to O(s, m∗
i,0) for any i ∈[ℓ]
are when running EncEWH(pkEWH, m∗
i,b) = EncPKE(pkPKE, m∗
i,0; O(s, m∗
i,0) ). Note
that each of the m∗
i,0 are distinct, so all such ﬁrst queries are distinct.
Hybrid 3. This is the same as Hybrid 2, except that the experiment aborts if there
are any queries to O(s, m∗
i,b) occurring after those by EncEWH(pkEWH, m∗
i,0). Let
p3 be the probability A outputs 1. We will prove |p3 −p2| is negligible shortly.
10 We do not know how to prove CCA-PRIV or strong security for this construction.

Augmented Random Oracles
57
In Hybrid 3, since O(s, m∗
i,0) is only ever answered once, namely inside
EncEWH(pkEWH, m∗
i,0), the random coins generated in each call to EncEWH are
random and independent of the rest of the experiment. Thus, Hybrid 3 is equiv-
alent to giving A the ciphertexts EncPKE(pkPKE, m∗
i,0) for fresh random coins.
Hybrid 4. This is the same as Hybrid 3, except that we switch the ciphertexts
given to A to be EncEWH(pkEWH, m∗
i,1) for uniformly random m∗
i,1. Let p4 be the
probability A outputs 1. As in Hybrid 3, the experiment is equivalent to the
ciphertexts being EncPKE(pkPKE, m∗
i,1) for fresh random coins. By the lossiness
of EncPKE, |p4 −p3| is negligible.
We now prove |p3 −p2| negligible. First, since m∗
i,1 are random distinct mes-
sages that are independent of the view of the experiment in Hybrid 2, the prob-
ability of querying on O(s, m∗
i,1) is negligible. Now we consider the ﬁrst query
of the form O(s, m∗
i,0) triggered after EncEWH in Hybrid 2. Up until this point,
Hybrids 2, 3, and 4 is statistically close. But in Hybrid 4, prior to any O(s, m∗
i,0)
query, the experiment only uses m∗
i,1, and not the m∗
i,0. Hence, the m∗
i,0 remains
statistically independent of the view of the experiment up until this point. Mak-
ing a query on m∗
i,0 would thus violate the statistical unpredictability of D, and
hence can only occur with negligible probability.
Hybrids 5,6, and 7. These are the same as Hybrids 2,1, and 0, respectively, except
that the messages being encrypted are m∗
i,1. Let p5, p6, p7 be the probabilities of
outputting 1. By analogous arguments, we have that |p5 −p4|, |p6 −p5|, |p7 −p6|
are all negligible. Hence |p7−p0| is negligible. But notice that Hybrid 7 is exactly
the CPA-PRIV game with b = 1, and so |p7 −p0| = ϵ is the advantage of A.
This completes the proof.
□
5
Fujisaki-Okamoto in the AROM
Here, we explore the insecurity of the Fujisaki-Okamoto (FO) transform [FO99]
in the AROM. Recall that FO starts with ΠPKE = (GenPKE, EncPKE, DecPKE)
and ΠSKE = (EncSKE, DecSKE), which are public key and secret key encryption
schemes. Ciphertexts are then
( c := EncPKE(pk, δ; O(0, δ, d) ) , d := EncSKE( O(1, δ) , m) ) .
Note that, because EncPKE never “sees” d, the Type 2 impossibility of the un-
tweaked EwH does not seem to apply. For simplicity, we therefore stick with the
usual description of FO; we could also deﬁne a tweaked version with an s as in
Sect. 4.1, and everything we say below will still apply.
That FO is insecure for general PKE already follows from [BFM15] following
a similar proof as the EwH setting, and the insecurity readily carries over to the
AROM following a very similar outline as in Sect. 4.3. In fact, unlike EwH, FO
remains insecure in the AROM, even if ΠPKE is lossy:
Theorem 5.1. For general lossy ΠPKE and even perfectly secure ΠSKE, FO is
not secure in the AROM.

58
M. Zhandry
Proof. We start with an oracle M O which contains families of private random
permutations P, Q, and answers the following queries:
– (Gen, 1λ, s): Output (pk = P(s, 0), sk = s).
– (GenLossy, 1λ, s): Output pk = P(s, 1).
– (Enc, pk, m, r): If P −1(pk) = (sk, 0) for some sk, output c = Q(pk, m, r).
Otherwise output c = Q(pk, 0, r).
– (Dec, sk, c): Compute (pk, m, r) = Q−1(c). If pk = P(sk, 0), output m. Other-
wise output ⊥.
– (Forward, x): Output O(x).
M clearly can be used to realize a lossy encryption scheme ΠPKE. We instantiate
EncSKE with the one-time pad. Let ΠFO = (GenFO
O,M O, EncFO
O,M O, DecFO
O,M O)
be the result of applying the FO transformation to this lossy encryption scheme.
Under M as is, ΠFO actually will be CCA-secure. We now add two more types
of queries to M, which make use of another private random oracle R.
– (EncRand, pk): Compute (m, r) = R(pk) and output c ←EncFO
O,M O(pk, m; r)
– (Break, pk, m): Compute (m′, r) = R(pk) and (sk, b) ←P −1(pk). If m = m′,
output sk.
We claim that the addition of these queries preserves the lossiness of ΠPKE.
Indeed, suppose an adversary is trying to distinguish pk being lossy from regular.
An EncRand query on pk does not help: it is just an encryption of a random
ciphertext under FO, which the adversary could simulate for itself. On the other
hand, suppose it makes a Break query on (pk, m) that causes it to output sk.
Consider the ﬁrst such query. In this case, the adversary must have been able to
previously learn the plaintext encrypted in the EncRand query. Since the query
was just a random ciphertext, such an adversary can be turned into an adversary
against the CPA-security for ΠFO in the setting of only Gen, GenLossy, Enc, Dec
queries, which we already know is impossible.
However, these queries clearly allow for for CCA attacks on ΠFO: simply
make an EncRand query on the public key, and then make a CCA query on the
resulting ciphertext. Then feed the result into a Break query, revealing the secret
key.
□
The above “attack” is quite general: it is not clear that it used any particular
structure of ΠFO. In the following subsection, we will nevertheless show how to
modify the construction to achieve CCA security. Very roughly, the way we get
around the issue above is by having a public key comprise of several public keys
for ΠPKE. What we will see is that this lets us simulate CCA queries by ourselves.
Then the ability to perform EncRand and Break queries will directly allow us to
break the security of the underlying encryption scheme. Note that our proof will
be much more general, applying to any oracle M.

Augmented Random Oracles
59
5.1
Our CCA-secure Construction
Construction 5.2 (CCA-Secure PKE in the AROM). Let ΠPKE
=
(GenPKE, EncPKE, DecPKE) and ΠSKE = (EncSKE, DecSKE) be public key and secret
key encryption schemes, respectively. Let ΠSig = (GenSig, SignSig, VerSig) be a sig-
nature scheme. Deﬁne ΠCCA = (GenCCA
O, EncCCA
O, DecCCA
O), where
– GenCCA
O(1λ): Let ℓbe the bit-length of vk generated by GenSig(1λ). For
i ∈[ℓ], b ∈{0, 1}, run (pkPKE
(i,b), skPKE
(i,b)) ←GenPKE(1λ). Output pkCCA =
(pkPKE
(i,b))i,b and skCCA = ((skPKE
(i,b))i,b, pkCCA).
– EncCCA
O(pkCCA, m): Sample (vk, skSig) ←GenSig(1λ). Sample δ ←{0, 1}λ.
Run d ←EncSKE(O(vk, δ) , m), ci ←EncPKE(pkPKE
(i,vki), δ; O(δ, i, d, vk) )
for i ∈[ℓ]. Finally compute σ ←SignSig(skSig, ((ci)i, d) ). Output c =
(vk, (ci)i, d, σ).
– DecCCA
O(skCCA, c): First run VerSig(vk, ((ci)i, d) , σ); if it rejects immedi-
ately abort and output ⊥. Otherwise run δ ←DecPKE(skPKE
(1,vk1), c1). For
each i > 1, check that ci = EncPKE(pkPKE
(i,vki), δ; O(δ, i, d, vk) ); if any
of the checks fail immediately abort and output ⊥. Finally, output m ←
DecSKE(O(vk, δ) , d).
Correctness is immediate from the correctness of the underlying protocols. We
now state the security theorem:
Theorem 5.3. If ΠPKE is lossy, ΠSKE is one-time secure, and ΠSig is strongly
one-time secure, then ΠCCA is CCA secure in the AROM.
Due to lack of space, we defer the proof to the Full Version [Zha22]. The
idea is to change some of the public keys to be lossy, so that the challenge
query invokes only lossy keys but all CCA queries invoke at least one non-lossy
key. This allows us to decrypt all CCA queries, while being able to leverage an
argument similar to Theorem 4.8 for EwH to show that the challenge message
remains hidden.
6
Fiat-Shamir in the AROM
Fiat-Shamir (FS) [FS87] reduces interactive public coin protocols into a single
message. There are two variants: interactive into non-interactive arguments, and
identiﬁcation protocols into signatures. We will focus on argument systems.
Let P(x, w) ↔V (x) be a proof system for an NP language L, where x is an
instance and w a witness. The system is a sound proof if, for any x /∈L and
any potentially unbounded cheating prover P ∗(x), P ∗(x) ↔V (x) causes V to
accept with only negligible probability. The system is a sound argument if the
above holds for only computationally eﬃcient P ∗. The system is public coin if
V ’s messages are uniform random strings.
Consider a 3-message public coin proof system, where the prover goes ﬁrst.
Let (a, c, r) be the three messages. The Fiat-Shamir transform compiles such a
system into a non-interactive proof, by running P(x, w) but where the veriﬁer’s

60
M. Zhandry
message c is set to O(s, a), resulting in (a, c = O(s, a), r). Here, s is a common
reference string (CRS), and is needed to enforce domain separation to avoid
trivial Type 2 impossibilities if the underlying proof system can query O. The
veriﬁer then just checks the validity of the transcript (a, c, r), and also that
c = O(s, a).
Heuristically, one may expect the resulting system to be sound, since the
soundness of P, V relied on the un-predictability of c, which seems to hold when
deriving c from a good hash function. In the ROM, one can prove this intuition,
as shown by [BR93]. Unfortunately, Goldwasser and Kalai [GK03] show that
this is not the case in the standard model for general arguments. Following
similar ideas to the EwH and FO cases, in the Full Version [Zha22], we show the
following:
Theorem 6.1. For general arguments, FS is not secure in the AROM.
On the other hand, we show that if the proof system is an actual proof (that
is, it has statistical soundness), then Fiat-Shamir is secure:
Theorem 6.2. FS is secure in the AROM for statistically sound proofs, assum-
ing |s| ≥|a| + |r| + ω(log λ).
The security of FS for proofs has been explicit conjectured by [BLV03], but a
Type 5 impossibility was shown by [BDG+13], showing that FS cannot be proved
in the standard model relative to standard assumptions. Thus, an idealized model
seems inherent in any justiﬁcation for security. The proof of Theorem 6.2 is
given in the Full Version. The idea is that we can turn any adversary for FS
in the AROM into a computationally unbounded adversary for the underlying
proof system. The proof system adversary will essentially brute force the entire
oracles O and M, and then use this knowledge to undetectably simulate a re-
programmed oracle to the FS adversary.
Remark 6.3. The FS transform is not zero knowledge in the AROM, as the
usual zero knowledge proof requires the simulator to be able to program the
random oracle, which we disallow due to concerns about Type 4 impossibilities.
One option is to use Lindell’s transformation [Lin15], which includes a dual-
mode commitment that provides a trapdoor for simulation. Another simpler
option is to change the way c is computed to ci = O(i, si, a), where ci is the
i-th bit of c, and the CRS is s = (si)i where each si is |a| + |r| + ω(log λ)
bits. Now zero knowledge follows from the honest-veriﬁer zero knowledge of
(Prov, Ver): ﬁrst simulate (a, c, r) for (Prov, Ver), and then choose random si
such that ci = O(i, si, a).
Remark 6.4. Our proof above is not amenable to the case of signatures, as we
would need a way to answer signing queries without knowing the witness. This is
usually accomplished via random oracle programming. Our techniques only allow
for programming using an ineﬃcient reduction. But it seems when programming
the oracle to answer signing queries, we need the reduction to remain eﬃcient,
since an ineﬃcient reduction could have brute-forced the signatures by itself. We
therefore leave the signature case as an interesting open question.

Augmented Random Oracles
61
7
On Best Possible Hashing
In this section we identify two security properties that are trivially satisﬁed by
random oracles, and each have standard-model instantiations with diﬀerent hash
functions. Yet no single hash function can satisfy both properties.
The two properties are anti-lossiness (Deﬁnition 2.4) and one-wayness against
auxiliary input (Deﬁnition 2.5).
Anti-lossiness. Recall that anti-lossiness asks that there is no hashing key that
makes the function so lossy so as to have predictable outputs when the input
is random. Anti-lossiness is a natural property of hash functions, and is likely
satisﬁed by eﬃcient hash functions such as SHA2, where we turn SHA2 into a
keyed hash function by simply concatenating the key with the input. After all, the
existence of keys/preﬁxes that allow the output of SHA2 to be predicted would
be considered a major weakness of the hash function. It is also easy to construct
anti-lossy hash functions information-theoretically, and using public key tools we
can even construct collision resistant anti-lossy functions. For example, for key
k = (g, h), the map (x, y) →gxhy is collision resistant (assuming discrete log)
and anti-lossy. If we treat a random oracle as a keyed function by concatenating
the key to the input, random oracles are also trivially anti-lossy.
One-wayness against auxiliary input. Recall that one-wayness against auxiliary
input requires that the function remains one-way even against all computation-
ally unpredictable 1-sources. Zhandry [Zha16] constructs such functions under
the assumed exponential hardness of DDH. A random oracle (treating it as keyed
by concatenating the key to the input) also trivially satisﬁes this notion in the
plain ROM: this is just a simple consequence of random oracles being universal
computational extractors [BHK13].
7.1
Incompatibility of the Deﬁnitions
Theorem 7.1. Assuming VGB obfuscation, there is no hash function H that is
both anti-lossy and auxiliary input one-way.
Proof. The proof is closely related to the insecurity auxiliary input DDH, as
shown by [BST16]. Our insight is to identify anti-lossiness as the speciﬁc property
oﬀDDH that facilitates the proof [BST16]. Let H be any hash function. Our
distribution D(1λ) samples a uniformly random x. It then lets Px(k, y) be the
program with x hard-coded, which outputs x if and only if H(k, x) = y; otherwise
it outputs 0. D then outputs (x, aux = Obf(1λ, Px) ).
□
Lemma 7.2. If H is anti-lossy, then D is computationally unpredictable.
Proof. Suppose towards contradiction that there is an adversary A for the unpre-
dictability of D. In other words, A learns x from Obf(1λ, Px), for a uniform choice
of x. By VGB security, there must therefore be an ineﬃcient but query-bounded

62
M. Zhandry
simulator S such that SPx(1λ) outputs x with non-negligible probability. Con-
sider any query (k, y) that S makes to Px. By statistical unpredictability, with
overwhelming probability H(k, x) ̸= y, and so the query response is 0. By a
simple hybrid over all queries, with overwhelming probability the answers to all
queries are 0, in which case the view of S is independent of x. Hence S cannot
output x except with negligible probability, a contradiction.
□
We now ﬁnish the proof of Theorem 7.1. If given k, y = H(k, x) and aux, we
can simply run the program aux on k, y; the result is Px(k, y), which outputs x
since y = H(k, x). Hence, H cannot be one-way against the source D.
□
Note that, if H is not anti-lossy, then D may be computationally predictable.
This is exactly what happens with Zhandry’s ELFs. Thus, even though H is not
one-way against D, there is no contradiction since D is not a valid source.
We now explain that Theorem 7.1 easily translates to the AROM:
Theorem 7.3. There is no hash function in the AROM that is both anti-lossy
and auxiliary input one-way.
We sketch the proof due to lack of space. In the AROM, we simply use the
obfuscation oracle MObf from Sect. 4.3 to implement Obf (MObf is not only iO,
but trivially VGB and even VBB). The rest of the proof of Theorem 7.1 is readily
adapted to use MObf instead of Obf.
By Corollary 3.7, we know that O is anti-lossy in the AROM. Thus, we
conclude O is not auxiliary input one-way in the AROM. We note that this
does not contradict Theorem 3.6, as auxiliary input one-wayness is not single-
stage owing to D and A being isolated adversaries, and hence the AROM and
ROM are not equivalent for this security property. Thus, we see that the AROM
appears to reﬂect the security of standard hash functions such as SHA2.
References
[AB12] Ananth, P., Bhaskarnnn, R.: Non observability in the random oracle model.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2012/710 (2012). https://eprint.iacr.
org/2012/710
[AS15] Asharov, G., Segev, G.: Limits on the power of indistinguishability obfus-
cation and functional encryption. In: Guruswami, V. (ed.) 56th FOCS, pp.
191–209. IEEE Computer Society Press (2015)
[BB04] Boneh, D., Boyen, X.: Secure identity based encryption without ran-
dom oracles. In: Franklin, M. (ed.) CRYPTO 2004. LNCS, vol. 3152, pp.
443–459. Springer, Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-
28628-8 27
[BBO07] Bellare, M., Boldyreva, A., O’Neill, A.: Deterministic and eﬃciently search-
able encryption. In: Menezes, A. (ed.) CRYPTO 2007. LNCS, vol. 4622,
pp. 535–552. Springer, Heidelberg (2007). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
540-74143-5 30
[BCKP14] Bitansky, N., Canetti, R., Kalai, Y.T., Paneth, O.: On virtual grey
box obfuscation for general circuits. In: Garay, J.A., Gennaro, R. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2014. LNCS, vol. 8617, pp. 108–125. Springer, Heidelberg (2014).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-44381-1 7

Augmented Random Oracles
63
[BDG+13] Bitansky, N., Dachman-Soled, D., Garg, S., Jain, A., Kalai, Y.T., L´opez-
Alt, A., Wichs, D.: Why “Fiat-Shamir for proof” lacks a proof. In: Sahai,
A. (ed.) TCC 2013. LNCS, vol. 7785, pp. 182–201. Springer, Heidelberg
(2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-36594-2 11
[BFM15] Brzuska, C., Farshim, P., Mittelbach, A.: Random-oracle uninstantiability
from indistinguishability obfuscation. In: Dodis, Y., Nielsen, J.B. (eds.)
TCC 2015. LNCS, vol. 9015, pp. 428–455. Springer, Heidelberg (2015).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-46497-7 17
[BHK13] Bellare, M., Hoang, V.T., Keelveedhi, S.: Instantiating random oracles via
UCEs. In: Canetti, R., Garay, J.A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2013. LNCS, vol. 8043,
pp. 398–415. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
642-40084-1 23
[BHY09] Bellare, M., Hofheinz, D., Yilek, S.: Possibility and impossibility results for
encryption and commitment secure under selective opening. In: Joux, A.
(ed.) EUROCRYPT 2009. LNCS, vol. 5479, pp. 1–35. Springer, Heidelberg
(2009). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-01001-9 1
[BLV03] Barak, B., Lindell, Y., Vadhan, S.P.: Lower bounds for non-black-box zero
knowledge. In: 44th FOCS, pp. 384–393. IEEE Computer Society Press
(2003)
[BMZ19] Bartusek, J., Ma, F., Zhandry, M.: The distinction between ﬁxed and ran-
dom generators in group-based assumptions. In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio,
D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019. LNCS, vol. 11693, pp. 801–830. Springer, Cham
(2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-26951-7 27
[BR93] Bellare, M., Rogaway, P.: Random oracles are practical: a paradigm for
designing eﬃcient protocols. In: Denning, D.E., Pyle, R., Ganesan, R.,
Sandhu, R.S., Ashby, V. (eds.) ACM CCS 93, pp. 62–73. ACM Press (1993)
[BRS03] Black, J., Rogaway, P., Shrimpton, T.: Encryption-scheme security in the
presence of key-dependent messages. In: Nyberg, K., Heys, H. (eds.) SAC
2002. LNCS, vol. 2595, pp. 62–75. Springer, Heidelberg (2003). https://
doi.org/10.1007/3-540-36492-7 6
[BS11] Brakerski, Z., Segev, G.: Better security for deterministic public-key
encryption: the auxiliary-input setting. In: Rogaway, P. (ed.) CRYPTO
2011. LNCS, vol. 6841, pp. 543–560. Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-22792-9 31
[BST16] Bellare, M., Stepanovs, I., Tessaro, S.: Contention in cryptoland: obfusca-
tion, leakage and UCE. In: Kushilevitz, E., Malkin, T. (eds.) TCC 2016.
LNCS, vol. 9563, pp. 542–564. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-662-49099-0 20
[Can97] Canetti, R.: Towards realizing random oracles: Hash functions that hide
all partial information. In: Kaliski, B.S. (ed.) CRYPTO 1997. LNCS, vol.
1294, pp. 455–469. Springer, Heidelberg (1997). https://doi.org/10.1007/
BFb0052255
[CCR16] Canetti, R., Chen, Y., Reyzin, L.: On the correlation intractability of obfus-
cated pseudorandom functions. In: Kushilevitz, E., Malkin, T. (eds.) TCC
2016. LNCS, vol. 9562, pp. 389–415. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-49096-9 17
[CDMP05] Coron, J.-S., Dodis, Y., Malinaud, C., Puniya, P.: Merkle-Damg˚ard revis-
ited: how to construct a hash function. In: Shoup, V. (ed.) CRYPTO 2005.
LNCS, vol. 3621, pp. 430–448. Springer, Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.
org/10.1007/11535218 26

64
M. Zhandry
[CGH98] Cannetti, R., Goldreich, O., Halevi, S.: The random oracle methodology,
revisited (preliminary version). In: 30th ACM STOC, pp. 209–218. ACM
Press (1998)
[DDN91] Dolev, D., Dwork, C., Naor, M.: Non-malleable cryptography (extended
abstract). In: 23rd ACM STOC, pp. 542–552. ACM Press (1991)
[DOP05] Dodis, Y., Oliveira, R., Pietrzak, K.: On the generic insecurity of the full
domain hash. In: Shoup, V. (ed.) CRYPTO 2005. LNCS, vol. 3621, pp. 449–
466. Springer, Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/11535218 27
[FLR+10] Fischlin, M., Lehmann, A., Ristenpart, T., Shrimpton, T., Stam, M., Tes-
saro, S.: Random oracles with(out) programmability. In: Abe, M. (ed.)
ASIACRYPT 2010. LNCS, vol. 6477, pp. 303–320. Springer, Heidelberg
(2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-17373-8 18
[FO99] Fujisaki, E., Okamoto, T.: Secure integration of asymmetric and symmetric
encryption schemes. In: Wiener, M. (ed.) CRYPTO 1999. LNCS, vol. 1666,
pp. 537–554. Springer, Heidelberg (1999). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-
48405-1 34
[FS87] Fiat, A., Shamir, A.: How to prove yourself: practical solutions to identi-
ﬁcation and signature problems. In: Odlyzko, A.M. (ed.) CRYPTO 1986.
LNCS, vol. 263, pp. 186–194. Springer, Heidelberg (1987). https://doi.org/
10.1007/3-540-47721-7 12
[GK03] Goldwasser, S., Kalai, Y.T.: On the (in)security of the ﬁat-shamir
paradigm. In: 44th FOCS, pp. 102–115. IEEE Computer Society Press
(2003)
[GKW17] Goyal, R., Koppula, V., Waters, B.: Lockable obfuscation. In: Umans, C.
(ed.), 58th FOCS, pp. 612–621. IEEE Computer Society Press (2017)
[Gol06] Goldreich, O.: On post-modern cryptography. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Report 2006/461 (2006). https://eprint.iacr.org/2006/461
[GOR11] Goyal, V., O’Neill, A., Rao, V.: Correlated-input secure hash functions.
In: Ishai, Y. (ed.) TCC 2011. LNCS, vol. 6597, pp. 182–200. Springer,
Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-19571-6 12
[GW11] Gentry, C., Wichs, D.: Separating succinct non-interactive arguments from
all falsiﬁable assumptions. In: Fortnow, L., Vadhan, S.P. (eds.) 43rd ACM
STOC, pp. 99–108. ACM Press (2011)
[HK07] Halevi, S., Krawczyk, H.: Security under key-dependent inputs. In: Ning,
P., di Vimercati, S.D.C., Syverson, P.F. (eds.) ACM CCS 2007, pp. 466–
475. ACM Press (2007)
[HSW14] Hohenberger, S., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Replacing a random oracle: full
domain hash from indistinguishability obfuscation. In: Nguyen, P.Q.,
Oswald, E. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2014. LNCS, vol. 8441, pp. 201–220.
Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-55220-
5 12
[KM07] Kuwakado, H., Morii, M.: Indiﬀerentiability of single-block-length and rate-
1 compression functions. IEICE Trans. Fundam. Electron. Commun. Com-
put. Sci. E90-A(10), 2301–2308 (2007)
[KM15] Koblitz, N., Menezes, A.J.: The random oracle model: a twenty-year ret-
rospective. Des. Codes Cryptogr. 77(2), 587–610 (2015). https://doi.org/
10.1007/s10623-015-0094-2
[KY18] Komargodski, I., Yogev, E.: Another step towards realizing random ora-
cles: non-malleable point obfuscation. In: Nielsen, J.B., Rijmen, V. (eds.)
EUROCRYPT 2018. LNCS, vol. 10820, pp. 259–279. Springer, Cham
(2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-78381-9 10

Augmented Random Oracles
65
[Lin15] Lindell, Y.: An eﬃcient transform from sigma protocols to NIZK with a
CRS and non-programmable random oracle. In: Dodis, Y., Nielsen, J.B.
(eds.) TCC 2015. LNCS, vol. 9014, pp. 93–109. Springer, Heidelberg (2015).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-46494-6 5
[Mic94] Micali, S.: CS proofs (extended abstracts). In: 35th FOCS, pp. 436–453.
IEEE Computer Society Press (1994)
[MRH04] Maurer, U., Renner, R., Holenstein, C.: Indiﬀerentiability, impossibility
results on reductions, and applications to the random oracle methodol-
ogy. In: Naor, M. (ed.) TCC 2004. LNCS, vol. 2951, pp. 21–39. Springer,
Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-24638-1 2
[Nie02] Nielsen, J.B.: Separating random oracle proofs from complexity theoretic
proofs: the non-committing encryption case. In: Yung, M. (ed.) CRYPTO
2002. LNCS, vol. 2442, pp. 111–126. Springer, Heidelberg (2002). https://
doi.org/10.1007/3-540-45708-9 8
[Pas03] Pass, R.: On deniability in the common reference string and random
oracle model. In: Boneh, D. (ed.) CRYPTO 2003. LNCS, vol. 2729, pp.
316–337. Springer, Heidelberg (2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-
45146-4 19
[Sim98] Simon, D.R.: Finding collisions on a one-way street: can secure hash func-
tions be based on general assumptions? In: Nyberg, K. (ed.) EUROCRYPT
1998. LNCS, vol. 1403, pp. 334–345. Springer, Heidelberg (1998). https://
doi.org/10.1007/BFb0054137
[Wic13] Wichs, D.: Barriers in cryptography with weak, correlated and leaky
sources. In: Kleinberg, R.D. (ed.) ITCS 2013, pp. 111–126. ACM (2013)
[WZ17] Wichs, D., Zirdelis, G.: Obfuscating compute-and-compare programs under
LWE. In: Umans, C. (ed.) 58th FOCS, pp. 600–611. IEEE Computer Soci-
ety Press (2017)
[Zha16] Zhandry, M.: The magic of ELFs. In: Robshaw, M., Katz, J. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2016. LNCS, vol. 9814, pp. 479–508. Springer, Heidelberg (2016).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53018-4 18
[Zha22] Zhandry, M.: Augmented random oracles. Available at the IACR ePrint
Archive (2022). https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/783/
[ZZ20] Zhandry, M., Zhang, C.: Indiﬀerentiability for public key cryptosystems. In:
Micciancio, D., Ristenpart, T. (eds.) CRYPTO 2020. LNCS, vol. 12170, pp.
63–93. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-56784-
2 3

