Authenticated Garbling from
Simple Correlations
Samuel Dittmer1(B)
, Yuval Ishai2, Steve Lu1
, and Rafail Ostrovsky1,3
1 Stealth Software Technologies, Inc., Los Angeles, USA
{samdittmer,steve,rafail}@stealthsoftwareinc.com
2 Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel
yuval@cs.technion.ac.il
3 University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, USA
rafail@cs.ucla.edu
Abstract. We revisit the problem of constant-round malicious secure
two-party computation by considering the use of simple correlations,
namely sources of correlated randomness that can be securely gener-
ated with sublinear communication complexity and good concrete eﬃ-
ciency. The current state-of-the-art protocol of Katz et al. (Crypto 2018)
achieves malicious security by realizing a variant of the authenticated gar-
bling functionality of Wang et al. (CCS 2017). Given oblivious transfer
correlations, the communication cost of this protocol (with 40 bits of
statistical security) is comparable to roughly 10 garbled circuits (GCs).
This protocol inherently requires more than 2 rounds of interaction.
In this work, we use other kinds of simple correlations to realize the
authenticated garbling functionality with better eﬃciency. Concretely,
we get the following reduced costs in the random oracle model:
– Using variants of both vector oblivious linear evaluation (VOLE)
and multiplication triples (MT), we reduce the cost to 1.31 GCs.
– Using only variants of VOLE, we reduce the cost to 2.25 GCs.
– Using only variants of MT, we obtain a non-interactive (i.e., 2-
message) protocol with cost comparable to 8 GCs.
Finally, we show that by using recent constructions of pseudorandom
correlation generators (Boyle et al., CCS 2018, Crypto 2019, 2020), the
simple correlations consumed by our protocols can be securely realized
without forming an eﬃciency bottleneck.
1
Introduction
Practical protocols for low-latency secure 2-party computation typically rely on
Garbled Circuits (GC) [24]. Such protocols have constant round complexity,
online communication proportional to the input size, total communication pro-
portional to the circuit size, and good computational cost. We revisit the ques-
tion of concretely eﬃcient GC-based protocols with malicious security, which has
been the topic of a long line of work originating from [16,17]. The authenticated
garbling approach of Wang et al. [21] and Katz et al. [15] gives the state-of-the-
art protocols along this line. This approach relies on oblivious transfers for a
cut-and-choose based implementation of a preprocessing functionality made up
of a collection of authenticated wire labels.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
Y. Dodis and T. Shrimpton (Eds.): CRYPTO 2022, LNCS 13510, pp. 57–87, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15985-5_3

58
S. Dittmer et al.
This work is motivated by recent techniques for securely generating simple
forms of correlated randomness [3–7,19,23], which make it feasible to explore
practical alternatives to constructions based only on OTs. In this work, we give
three new constructions, including a non-interactive secure computation (NISC)
protocol [14], which use simple correlations that can be securely generated with
sublinear communication complexity and good concrete eﬃciency.
Table 1. Communication complexity for evaluating a large circuit after a “silent”
randomness generation step, as a ratio to the cost of a semi-honest garbled circuit,
with κ = 128 bits of computational security and ρ = 40 bits of statistical security. The
bucket size for KRRW is set to B = 3, which is a lower bound for circuits of size less
than 2ρ. Dep. + online communication refers to the higher of the two party’s one-way
circuit-dependent communication cost, including online and oﬄine phase costs. The
total column adds in the cost of circuit-independent oﬄine communication.
Protocol
Correlation
Cost (garbled circuits)
Dep. + online Total
WRK [21]
OT
2.5
11.0
KRRW [15] v1
OT
1.5
7.75
KRRW [15] v2
OT
1
9.7
KRRW [15] with VOLE
FVOLE
1
2.5
KRRW [15] with SPDZ
MT
1
7
KRRW [15] with SPDZ and cert. VOLE
MT-FVOLE-FsubVOLE
1
2.9
Ours, v1
(KRRW with FDAMT compiler to Fpre(κ))
FDAMT-FsubVOLE-FVOLE 1
1.31
Ours, v2
FbVOLE-FsubVOLE-FVOLE 1.47
2.25
NISC in the single-execution setting
Ours, v3
FOLE
8
8
AMPR14 [1]
CRS
40
40
Our approach achieves signiﬁcant savings over the approach of [15], reducing
the total communication cost from around 10 semi-honest GCs to 1.31 GCs in
our ﬁrst protocol (comparing to the size of half-gates garbled circuits in both
cases). Our second protocol uses a compressed preprocessing functionality that
is expensive to generate for small circuits, but outperforms [15] in the large
circuit setting, requiring only 2.25 GCs and using only simple “VOLE-type”
correlations (see Sect. 1.1).
Our third protocol is non-interactive (NISC) and achieves comparable com-
munication complexity (8 GCs) than the variant of [15] with round complexity
proportional to the circuit depth, and roughly 5× the communication eﬃciency
of the best NISC protocols [1] in the single execution setting.
Part of our advantage comes from swapping out less eﬃcient ways of gener-
ating correlated randomness with recent advantages. For example, a large part
of the cost of [15] comes from their methods of generating an authenticated
bits functionality, which can be realized without any communication given two

Authenticated Garbling from Simple Correlations
59
instances of vector oblivious linear evaluation (VOLE), deﬁned in Sect. 1.1. But
our main advantage comes from novel compilers from new forms of simple cor-
related randomness to authenticated garbling functionality, including the use of
eﬃcient generalizations of certiﬁed VOLE protocols (see Sect. 3.2) that allow ver-
iﬁcation across more of the veriﬁcation work to be done under statistical security
instead of computational security (see Sect. 4.2). As we show in Table 1, our most
eﬃcient protocol still uses roughly 2× less communication than [15] would use,
even if we replaced their authenticated bits generation procedure with VOLE.
Alternatively, the SPDZ protocol [10] could be used to realize the prepro-
cessing functionality of [15] with authenticated multiplication triples (MTs) in a
black box way. Doing this would require 7 GCs. Applying our certiﬁed random-
ness optimization of Sect. 4.2 to this SPDZ approach would reduce communica-
tion to 2.9 GCs, which is still more than both our non-NISC variants.
As we further discuss below, the secure generation of the correlated ran-
domness required by our protocols is typically cheaper than the protocol that
consumes it, especially for VOLE-type correlations or when using multiple cores.
Moreover, this secure generation is circuit-independent and only involves local
computation without any interaction.
1.1
Simple Correlations
Our informal deﬁnition of a simple correlation is one that can be securely gener-
ated with sublinear communication complexity and good concrete eﬃciency. The
cost of sending a GC in the semi-honest setting is already linear in the circuit
size, and so will dominate the communication cost of setting up the randomness,
and any reasonably eﬃcient randomness protocol can be run on multiple cores
in the background faster than the communication of the main protocol.
We note that all of the ﬂavors of simple correlations discussed here can be
realized with a one-time setup step that generates randomness seeds. These
seeds can then be expanded into the full correlated randomness locally by each
party. This property facilitates running these protocols in a streaming mode,
where the randomness is unpacked as needed. To draw attention to this, and to
simplify the presentation, we write Extend(F) to denote unpacking additional
entries from the correlated randomness seeds. Additionally, this one-time setup
can be performed non-interactively, which we need to make step 2 of Fig. 12
non-interactive for our NISC protocol. We describe the correlation calculus more
formally in the full version of this paper [12].
We rely on two main ﬂavors of simple correlations: vector oblivious linear
evaluation (VOLE)-type correlations, and multiplication triple (MT)-type cor-
relations. In VOLE, a receiving party learns v := aβ +c along with the scalar β,
while the sending party learns a, c. VOLE with sublinear communication com-
plexity was introduced by Boyle et al. [3] in 2019 and has been improved since
then, see [7] for the most eﬃcient current variant.
In MT, parties learn shares of vectors x, y along with shares of the piecewise
product z, zi = xi · yi. MT have been studied as an important primitive for

60
S. Dittmer et al.
Table 2. Correlated randomness used throughout the paper. For programmable OLE,
the set Q is an arbitrary set of ordered pairs of indices. Cost comparison is given
with reference to the “base” randomness protocol, either VOLE or MT. Generating
1 million entries of VOLE costs roughly 0.05 s on standard computers. Generating 1
million entries of MT costs roughly 10 s.
Functionality
F-notation
Mathematical relation
Cost comparison
VOLE-type correlations
Vector OLE
FVOLE
v = aβ + c, for a, c ∈F2ρ
1 VOLE
Subﬁeld Vector OLE
FsubVOLE
v = aβ + c, for a ∈F2, c ∈F2ρ
≈0.6 VOLE
Block Vector OLE
FbVOLE
vi = aβi + ci, for i = 1 . . . , L
L VOLE
MT-type correlations
Two-sided authenticated
multiplication triples
FDAMT
Choose x · y = z, then share
[x], [y], [z], [αz], [βz]
2 MT
Programmable OLE
FOLE
vi,j = ai · βj + ci,j
for (i, j) ∈Q
|Q| MT
years, e.g. [10] but only recently have been able to be generated eﬃciently and
silently [6].
We require several variants of these two types of randomness, as summarized
in Table 2. We deﬁne all non-standard correlations as functionalities where they
arise in the presentation. Crucially, both ﬂavors of randomness generation allow
for “programmability” in such a way that each new variant does not require an
entirely new protocol, see e.g. [4,6].
Indeed, we can think of VOLE-type and MT-type correlations in terms of
simple atomic operations under a “correlation calculus”. For VOLE, atomic oper-
ations consist of choosing a vector v ∈F n, for some ﬁeld F, multiplying v by
a scalar β (possibly in an extension ﬁeld E), sending a vector to a party, and
secret-sharing a vector between parties. Taking F = E = F2ρ or F2κ gives stan-
dard VOLE, taking F = F and E = F2ρ gives subﬁeld VOLE. Reusing the vector
v with a set of scalars βi gives block VOLE and block subﬁeld VOLE.
For MT-type correlations, atomic operations consist of picking a random vec-
tor x ∈F n, computing the scalar product βx, computing the point-wise product
x·y, sending a vector to a party, and sharing a vector between parties. Standard
authenticated triples come from computing z := x·y and βz and sharing all four
vectors. Our two-sided authentication triples come from additionally computing
αz, and sharing this as well.
Finally, programmable OLE consists of a family of OLE vectors vi,j = aiβj +
ci,j, where the parties agree to re-use certain vectors ai and βj on certain entries.
The generation time and seed size of programmable OLE scales linearly with the
number of pairs (i, j) for which we generate a vector of OLE entries.
The VOLE protocol of [7] can generate a million entries of VOLE correlations
in roughly 0.05 s, or a million entries of subﬁeld VOLE in roughly 0.03 s. The
OLE protocol of [6] can generate a million OLE correlations in roughly 10 s. For
each of these protocols, the dominant cost is the secret sharing of vectors. We
therefore expect that block VOLE over L instances costs roughly L times as

Authenticated Garbling from Simple Correlations
61
much computation as a single VOLE, that standard authenticated triples costs
two times as much communication as OLE, and two-sided authenticated triples
cost three times as much.
We remark here that the Ring-LPN approach only allows silent generation
of authenticated multiplication triples over large ﬁelds of characteristic 2 such
as F2ρ. If authenticated triples could be silently generated over F2, then the
preprocessing functionality of [15] could be generated with only 2 bits of com-
munication per gate, via a procedure similar to that given in Lemma 3. It is
precisely because there is no simple correlation that can generate the prepro-
cessing functionality directly that the question of the most eﬃcient compiler
from simple correlations to that functionality arises.
1.2
Notation
We let f be a function realized by a circuit C, where C is made up of input gates
I, boolean gates G, and output gates O. Let the input I = IA ∪IB be held by
two parties A and B, and deﬁne n to be the number of AND gates in G, and
m = |I| + |G|, including all gates in m.
We use κ and ρ as a computational and statistical security parameter, respec-
tively, and take κ = 128 and ρ = 40 for our concrete communication metrics.
During the evaluation of a garbled circuit, we write zi for the true value of
a wire, λi for the wire mask, and share λi among A and B as λi = ai ⊕bi. We
use (⊕, ∧) for ﬁeld addition and multiplication over F2, any of (⊕, +, −) for ﬁeld
addition over larger ﬁelds of characteristic 2, and · or concatenation for ﬁeld
multiplication over larger ﬁelds of characteristic 2.
We use α, β for VOLE receiver inputs over F2ρ held by A, B respectively, and
ΔA for a VOLE receiver input held by A over F2κ.
When discussing randomness certiﬁcation in Sect. 3.2, we need to distinguish
between an instance of FVOLE where party A is the receiver and party B the
sender with another instance of FVOLE with the roles reversed. In this instance,
we refer to the latter functionality as FELOV.
1.3
Our Contribution
Our ﬁrst protocol relies on both VOLE-type and MT-type correlations. It
employs the same authenticated garbling technique as that in [15], but uses
authenticated triples over F2ρ, rather than cut-and-choose techniques, to gener-
ated authenticated wire labels. This construction relies on a new compiler from a
special ﬂavor of authenticated triples to the desired preprocessing functionality
given in Sect. 4.1, as well as a lightweight compiler from preprocessing with sta-
tistical security to preprocessing with computational security, given in Sect. 4.2.
Theorem 1. There is a protocol that securely computes f against malicious
adversaries in the RO−FDAMT−FVOLE−FsubVOLE-hybrid model with the following
features:

62
S. Dittmer et al.
– Online Communication: O(κ(|I| + |O|)).
– Circuit Dependent Communication: (2κ + 2)n bits of communication.
– Total Communication: (2κ+2ρ+2)n (one-way) or (2κ+4ρ+2)n (two-way)
plus terms sublinear in n.
– Computation: O(κn).
Our second protocol relies only on VOLE-type correlations, and a modiﬁca-
tion of the authenticated garbling protocol that, approximately, uses a garbling
approach from [21] to replace the authentication procedure in [15]. We give this
modiﬁed garbling protocol and prove its correctness in Sect. 5.1.
This modiﬁed approach increases the communication cost of the online plus
circuit dependent step, but allows the use of a simple block VOLE functionality
instead of one of the more computationally intensive PCGs used to build authen-
ticated triples. As written, the protocol uses quasi-linear work instead of linear
work, but this can be reduced to linear work by dividing the gates into blocks
of some large ﬁxed size, and running the compressed preprocessing functionality
Fcp on each block in parallel.
This approach is best suited to the large circuit setting, since it requires
L ≈ρ log |C| instances of VOLE (or for suﬃciently large N and |C| > N,
L = |C| ρ log N
N
), in order to construct the compressed functionality Fcp. Because
VOLE-type correlations are so much more eﬃcient, the computation of the ran-
domness generation for this protocol is roughly comparable to that of the ﬁrst
protocol, but the communication of the VOLE seeds is much larger.
Theorem 2. There is a protocol that securely computes f against malicious
adversaries in the RO−FVOLE−FsubVOLE−FbVOLE-hybrid model with the following
features:
– Online Communication: O(κ(|I| + |O|)).
– Circuit Dependent Communication: (2κ + 3ρ)n bits of communication.
– Total Communication: (2κ + 8ρ + 1)n + o(n).
– Computation: O(κn log n) or O(κn) with running Fcp on blocks.
Our third protocol relies only on MT-type correlations. It uses a similar
preprocessing functionality and authenticated garbling protocol as our ﬁrst pro-
tocol, but combines them into a (single-use) NISC protocol. These protocols
require certain modiﬁcations in order to make them non-interactive. In partic-
ular, we require a conditional disclosure of secrets (CDS) functionality to allow
the receiver to authenticate their inputs without communication to the prover.
We give the details in Sect. 6.1.
Theorem 3. There is a NISC protocol that securely computes f against mali-
cious adversaries in the RO −FOLE-hybrid model with the following features:
– Online Communication: O(κ(|I| + |O|)).
– Circuit Dependent Communication: (2κ + 3ρ)n bits of communication.
– Total Communication: 16κn +o(n) (one-way) or (29κ +3ρ)n+o(1) (two-
way).

Authenticated Garbling from Simple Correlations
63
– Computation: O(κn).
We expect the ﬁrst and third protocols to be dominant in the secure 2PC and
NISC settings, respectively, in the million gate setting and the second protocol
to be competitive around ten million gates.
1.4
Structure of Paper
In Sect. 2, we give an overview of the construction of [15], and explain how this
construction can be treated as a blueprint pattern for a family of authenticated
garbling constructions. We then describe, at a high-level, how each level of the
blueprint is modiﬁed for each of our three protocols. In Sect. 3 we describe a
series of technical results about certiﬁed VOLE, combining correlated random-
ness functionalities, and conditional disclosure of secrets. Each of these results
serve the same general purpose of allowing one party to authenticate that their
inputs are well-formed to the other party. We give some additional protocols
and proofs in the full version of this paper [12]. We then give our three protocols
ΠDAMT
2pc
, ΠVOLE
2pc
and ΠNISC
2pc
in Sects. 4, 5, 6, respectively.
2
Authenticated Garbling: Blueprints and Variations
We will present the authenticated garbling protocols in this paper as three dif-
ferent constructions following the same general blueprint design. The protocols
can be pictured as a series of structures built side-by-side with the same number
of levels, and corresponding levels play a similar role in each protocol. We begin
by reviewing the approach of [15] through this framework, and then go into more
detail about how our approaches diﬀer.
2.1
Review: The Authenticated Garbling Blueprint of KRRW [15]
Authenticated Shared Bits. The ﬁrst level of the construction is an authen-
ticated shared bits functionality. In [15], this functionality is presented through
the language of IT-MACs. We oﬀer an equivalent deﬁnition in the language
of simple correlations: The authenticated shared bits functionality is a pair of
implementations of FsubVOLE, the ﬁrst instance is over F2ρ, with party A act-
ing as sender and B acting as receiver, so that B receives β ∈F2ρ, A receives
a ∈Fm
2 and c ∈Fm
2ρ, and B receives v := aβ + c. In the second instance, the
roles reversed and the FsubVOLE is given over F2κ, so that A receives α ∈F2κ, B
receives b ∈Fm
2 and d ∈Fm
2κ, and A receives w := bα + d.
These shares will play the role of the wire masks in Yao’s garbled circuits.
For the i-th wire, party B will learn the value ai ⊕bi ⊕zi, where zi is the true
wire value under a plaintext evaluation of the circuit. Because the value ai is
unknown to B, B learns nothing from this value. Because the value bi is unknown
to A, A is unable to employ a selective-failure attack to deduce which row of the
garbled table B is attempting to read.

64
S. Dittmer et al.
Authenticated Parallel AND. To make the protocol secure against a mali-
cious A, party B needs to be able to verify that the row of the garbled table B is
reading from was constructed correctly. In order to do this, the parties augment
the authenticated bit randomness above with authenticated shares of the bits
(ai ⊕bi) ∧(aj ⊕bj), for every AND gate Gk := (i, j, k, ∧), as shown in Fig. 1.
This construction requires two stages. The ﬁrst stage we call authenticated
parallel AND. Let PAnd(n) be a circuit consisting of n AND gates executed
in parallel, so that the kth gate has input wires (2k −1, 2k) and output wire
2n + k. To simplify notation, we write Fpre(κ) for F(PAnd(n),κ,ρ)
pre
and Fpre(ρ) for
F(PAnd(n),ρ,ρ)
pre
where n is clear from context. In [15], the parties realize the prepro-
cessing functionality in the special case of Fpre(κ). Equivalently, they construct
authenticated multiplication triples with entries in F2; as remarked above, there
is no simple correlation that can generate these triples silently.
In [15], these triples are generated using cut-and-choose techniques, which
makes up the lion’s share of the circuit-independent communication cost of that
protocol.
Remark 1. We note that, as well as translating the language of Fpre in [15] from
IT-MACs to VOLE, we now require that if A holds an input bit, B’s share of
that input bit’s wire mask is 0, and vice versa. This does not alter the security
of the protocol but it simpliﬁes some of the proofs.
Functionality F (C,ρ,κ)
pre
: Pre-processing of wire labels for authenticated garbling.
Parametrized by values ρ, κ, and a circuit C consisting of W wires, I input wires,
O output wires, and gates G of the form (i, j, k, T), for T ∈{∧, ⊕}, i, j ∈I ∪W,
and k ∈W ∪O. Recall that m := |I| + |G|.
– A chooses α ∈F2κ and wire labels a ∈Fm
2 , c ∈Fm
2ρ and sends them to Fpre.
– B chooses β ∈F2ρ and wire labels b ∈Fm
2 , d ∈Fm
2κ and sends them to Fpre.
– For each input wire i ∈I, if i ∈IA, set bi := 0, and if i ∈IB, set ai := 0.
– For each gate G = (i, j, k, T), in topological order:
• If T = ⊕, Fpre sets the values ak = ai + aj, bk = bi + bj, ck = ci + cj, and
dk = di + dj, where the addition is performed in the appropriate ﬁeld of
characteristic 2.
• If T = ∧, Fpre chooses values ˆak uniformly at random from F2ρ, ˆck uniformly
at random from F, ˆdk uniformly at random from F2κ, and ˆbk = (ai + bi) ·
(aj + bj) + ˆak.
– Fpre computes
(v, ˆv, w, ˆw) = (aβ + c, ˆaβ + ˆc, bα + d, ˆbα + ˆd).
– Fpre sends (v, ˆv, ˆb, ˆd) to B and (w, ˆw, ˆa, ˆc) to A.
Fig. 1. Authenticated wire labels

Authenticated Garbling from Simple Correlations
65
Authenticated Circuit Wires. The second step is to convert this generic
preprocessing Fpre(κ), which serves the parallel AND gate circuit only, to the
circuit-dependent preprocessing F(C,ρ,κ)
pre
. In other words, we now want shares of
the bit (ai ⊕bi)∧(aj ⊕bj) for arbitrary pairs of indices (i, j), and ai ⊕bi, aj ⊕bj
may in turn represent the XOR of several prior bits.
This conversion is done using standard Beaver triple techniques [2], as we
show below in Sect. 4.2. In one variant of [15] the triples are instead constructed
“in-place”, which gives a modiﬁed construction with less total communication,
but some additional communication in the circuit-dependent phase. The main
result of [15] can now be re-stated as follows:
Theorem 4 ([15]). The KRRW protocol [15] securely computes a functionality
f against malicious adversaries in the RO-Fpre-hybrid model, with 2κ + 2 bits of
communication per AND gate, κ + 1 bits of communication per input gate, and
1 bit of communication per output gate.
Authenticated Garbling. The authenticated garbling protocols of both [21]
and the follow-up work [15] are both instructive here. After the authenticated
circuit wire labels are completed, party A plays the role of the sender in a semi-
honest evaluation of Yao’s garbled circuit, and some additional interaction allows
B to verify the correctness of the opened entry of each AND gate.
For an AND gate Gk := (i, j, k, ∧), let ˆak,ˆbk be the authenticated bit shares
of (ai ⊕bi) ∧(aj ⊕bj), and let λk := ak ⊕bk, with ˆλk deﬁned similarly. If both
parties know the value (λi ⊕zi), where zi is the true value of the wire, then they
can locally construct authenticated bit shares of
zi ∧zj ⊕λk = λk ⊕ˆλk ⊕(zi ⊕λi)λj ⊕(zj ⊕λj)λi ⊕(zi ⊕λi) ∧(zj ⊕λj).
From there, B evaluates the garbled circuit, A securely opens their bit share of
zi ∧zj ⊕λk, and B veriﬁes that the value zi ∧zj ⊕λk is equal to the wire label
zk ∧λk computed from garbled circuit evaluation.
The primary distinction between [21] and [15] is how the value of λi ⊕zi is
computed. In [21], party A computes all four possibilities of (λi ⊕zi, λj ⊕zj),
with the accompanying shares of zi ∧zj ⊕λk. They then construct what are
essentially two garbled circuits. The ﬁrst garbled circuit, used for evaluation,
uses computational security to hide gate labels from B. The second garbled
circuit, used for authentication, hides only the masked wire labels zi⊕λi and the
accompanying share of zi ∧zj ⊕λk, and uses statistical security to stop A from
ﬂipping a bit of the masked wire label. In [21], the ﬁrst garbled circuit requires
3κ communication per gate, and the second requires 4ρ bits of communication.
In the [15] protocol, the ﬁrst circuit is improved to 2κ bits of communication
by applying the half-gate technique of Zahur et al. [25], and the second circuit
is replaced with one more round of communication wherein B opens all masked
wire labels to A, and A then batches together the proof of correct garbling on
the traveled path.
Remark 2. A recent advance due to Rosulek and Roy [18] reduces the cost of
semi-honest garbled circuits to 1.5κ+5 bits per AND gate and is compatible with

66
S. Dittmer et al.
free XOR. A natural question is whether the approach of [15] can be extended
to this new “three-halves” garbled circuit construction. We hope the answer is
yes, although there are some obstacles to overcome.
In the [18] construction, the gates and wire labels are “sliced and diced“ into
half labels, but there is no canonical way for the evaluator to perform a lin-
ear combination of these half labels and compute the output wire’s half labels.
Instead, the desired linear combination is garbling-dependent, and randomized
and encrypted in such a way that the evaluator learns the desired linear com-
bination without learning anything about the garbling. In the [15] paradigm,
the garbler cannot know the garbling, and naturally, it is harder to randomize
and encrypt something you do not know. We leave the study of this question to
future work.
2.2
New Ideas: Authenticated Shared Bits
We now go through the levels of this blueprint again, this time explaining the
changes that each of our three protocols make to the pattern laid out above. First,
for authenticated shared bits, as mentioned above, two instances of FsubVOLE
are suﬃcient to generate this randomness, and we use exactly this for our ﬁrst
protocol, ΠDAMT
2pc
.
For the protocol using only VOLE-type correlations, ΠVOLE
2pc
, we introduce a
complication. We now generate all wire tags bi as a (public) linear combination
of entries of a vector b of wire tags. The length of b is O(ρ log n). This allows
us to generate shares of values ai ∧bj as a linear combination of values ai ∧bj′,
which can in turn be represented as entries of VOLE.
To ensure that security against a malicious A remains, we have to verify that
we are still protected against selective failure attacks. Following the protocol of
[21], we do not allow A to learn the values zi ⊕λi, and instead send a second
garbled circuit that allows B to learn zi ⊕λi and the accompanying share of
zi ∧zj ⊕λk. If A corrupts only a single gate, then by the randomness of b, A
will learn nothing from an abort. However, if A corrupts more gates, the values
bi may be linearly related, and so A could learn something from whether or
not B aborts. However, with an appropriate choice of parameters, the values bi
will only be linearly related if A has corrupted so many gates that an abort is
inevitable.
We note that a similar approach that generates the vector a as a linear
transformation of a shorter vector a (i.e. a = MHa) would be insecure. Indeed,
any vector w in the (non-empty) left kernel of MH is orthogonal to a. B must
learn the values zi ⊕λi in order to evaluate the circuit, and can then subtract
their share to obtain zi ⊕ai. Taking the dot product of a ⊕z with w gives w · z,
and B has broken the zero-knowledge property of the secure computation.
Finally, for the NISC protocol ΠNISC
2pc , we can not realize an instance of
FsubVOLE where B is the sender and A is the receiver non-interactively. Instead,
we let one of A’s inputs to programmable OLE be the vector α := (α, α, . . . , α),
and then B’s input b intended for FsubVOLE can instead be given to FOLE.

Authenticated Garbling from Simple Correlations
67
2.3
Authenticated Parallel AND
For our ﬁrst protocol, ΠDAMT
2pc
, we construct authenticated parallel AND gates
from doubly authenticated multiplication triples in two steps. First, we con-
vert from F(ρ,n)
DAMT to Fpre(ρ) using a construction inspired by Beaver triples, see
Sect. 4.2. This conversion requires 2ρ bits of communication per AND gate.
We then convert from Fpre(ρ) to Fpre(κ), that is, from preprocessing for parallel
AND gates over F2ρ to parallel AND gates where bits held by party B are
authenticated over F2κ instead of F2ρ, using a lightweight protocol that requires
only 3 + o(1) bits per AND gate. This can be done with semi-honest security
using the usual compiler from random to ﬁxed subﬁeld VOLE (see e.g. [3]). To
make this secure against malicious B, B must convince A that the bits used for
this instance of ﬁxed FsubVOLE match the authenticated bits generated by Fpre(ρ).
We give a lightweight protocol for this authentication in Sect. 4.2.
For our VOLE-only protocol, we instead use the block VOLE construction
(FbVOLE) to obtain bit shares of the product (a2i−1 ⊕b2i−1) ∧(a2i ⊕b2i) term
by term. Party A holds the bit a2i−1 ∧a2i locally, and can use this value as an
entry of its authenticated bits constructed above, and verify its correctness under
LPZK. Likewise party B holds the bit b2i−1 ∧b2i locally and can authenticate
and verify under LPZK. The cross terms a2i−1 ∧b2i and a2i ∧b2i−1 are linear
combinations of terms of the form a2i−1 ∧bj and a2i ∧bj, respectively, and so
bit shares of these terms can be obtained from the block VOLE.
In order to obtain authenticated shares, we also need to generate shares of
(ai ∧bj)β. To do this, we double the size of B’s input to the block VOLE, so that
B’s inputs are bj,bjβ. (For security reasons, we need to shift all of B’s inputs by
a random value γ, which is an additional input. We give the details in Sect. 5.2
and additional details in the full version of this paper [12]. To verify that B’s
inputs satisfy the correct relation, B passes their inputs to an instance of FVOLE,
playing the role of Sender, and proves correctness under LPZK.
For technical reasons, our protocol does not guarantee that a cheating A is
detected immediately, but instead ensures that, if A cheats, A corrupts their own
share of ˆbiα, which will then be detected during the evaluation of the garbled
circuit with overwhelming probability.
Because of the linear dependence on B’s bits, this is no longer a realization
of Fpre(ρ). We deﬁne a modiﬁed functionality Fcp and show that the converter
from Fpre(ρ) to Fpre(κ) can likewise convert from F(ρ)
cp
to F(κ)
cp .
For our NISC protocol, we follow the same approach as in the VOLE-only
protocol to produce shares of (a2i−1 ⊕b2i−1) ∧(a2i ⊕b2i) and (a2i−1 ⊕b2i−1) ∧
(a2i ⊕b2i)β, term by term. As discussed above, the parties have to generate
authenticated bits through a call to FOLE instead of FsubVOLE. To generate the
pairwise products b2i ∧a2i−1 and b2i−1 ∧a2i, and so-on, we re-use A’s input a
to the FOLE functionality, and pair it with a new vector b′, which reverses the
order of every pair (b2i−1, b2i).
Because the protocol is non-interactive, B cannot prove anything about their
inputs to A (in the CRS model, this would require a CRS generated by A and

68
S. Dittmer et al.
a message from B to A before A’s ﬁnal message from A to B for the secure
computation, giving a 3 round protocol). Instead, A and B use a lightweight
conditional disclosure of secrets protocol (CDS) which ensures that either B’s
inputs are well-formed or A’s message to B in the NISC protocol appears uni-
formly random to B. We sketch the protocol brieﬂy here, and describe it in more
detail in Sect. 6.1.
For the CDS protocol, parties A and B generate an instance of FOLE with A’s
input the vector α := (α, α, . . . , α), and B’s input the vector β := (β, β, . . . , β).
Call the resulting shares (v, c), so that if both parties are honest, we have vi+ci =
αβ for all i. Then likewise v1 −vi = c1 −ci for all i if both parties are honest,
and are otherwise oﬀset by a term unknown to the cheating party.
Let the vector s := (ci −ci) be held by A and the vector t := (v1 −vi) be
held by B. Then A adds H(s) to all future messages, B subtracts H(t) from
all future messages. if B cheats, B will be unable to construct s, and so A’s
messages will appear random.
Similar protocols are used to guarantee that the vector b′ really holds the
desired re-ordering of b, and that all necessary polynomial relations on b hold.
We give more detail in Sect. 6.1.
We note that our converters from authenticated gates over ρ to authenticated
gates over κ (i.e. the conversion from Fpre(ρ) to Fpre(κ), and related protocols)
can no longer be applied in the NISC setting because this protocol requires
opening certain shared values publicly, and thus is interactive. This is one of the
reasons that our NISC protocol requires more communication than our other
two protocols.
2.4
Authenticated Circuit Wires
For our ﬁrst interactive protocol, ΠDAMT
2pc
, the converter from Fpre(κ) to F(C,κ,ρ)
pre
follows the approach of [15]. We give the protocol converting from Fpre(κ) to
F(C,κ,ρ)
pre
in Sect. 4.2. For our VOLE-based protocol ΠVOLE
2pc
, we give instead build
F(C,ρ,ρ)
cp
directly and convert from that functionality to F(C,κ,ρ)
cp
. We describe
these conversions in Sect. 5.2.
For our NISC protocol, we deﬁne a modiﬁed functionality F(C,ρ,κ)
pre−wbc which is
similar to the functionality Fpre, but has the property from Fcp that a cheating A
is not immediately detected but corrupts their own shares. We observe that the
protocol sketched above for obtaining authenticated parallel AND gates from
authenticated bits can be used to obtain authenticated wires for an arbitrary
circuit. Instead of swapping b2i−1 and b2i in a second input vector to FOLE, we
have one input vector bL to the FOLE of all left inputs bi to gates Gk = (i, j, k, ∧),
and a second input vector bR of all right inputs bj. The same techniques are
used to ensure that bL and bR hold the correct linear transformations of b.
2.5
Authenticated Garbling
For our ﬁrst protocol, we can use the authenticated garbling protocol of [15]
directly, once the functionality F(C,ρ,κ)
pre
has been realized, with a small modiﬁ-

Authenticated Garbling from Simple Correlations
69
cation to the step where the initial gate labels are determined to account for our
small modiﬁcation to F(C,ρ,κ)
pre
where we allow a party’s wire mask zero when
the other party knows the true wire value. The protocol still requires, as in [15],
2κ + 2 bits of oﬄine circuit dependent communication per AND gate.
For our VOLE-only protocol, we can no longer use the authentication app-
roach of [15] where B reveals to A the masked wire labels zi ⊕λi = zi ⊕ai ⊕bi.
Of course, A can XOR these shares by the values ai that A holds, leaving zi ⊕bi,
and, because the values bi are computed as linear combinations of some shorter
vector b, there is some linear combination of the zi ⊕bi terms that causes the bi
terms to cancel identically, and A would learn some linear relation on the vector
z of true wire values.
Instead, we combine the techniques of [21] with Zahur’s half-gate techniques,
so that B can open exactly one authenticated bit, corresponding to (zi∧zj)⊕λk,
for the k-th multiplication gate. This requires only statistical security, since the
output is only used for veriﬁcation, and does not play the role of a gate label for
an output wire. On the other hand, since the output is being used for veriﬁcation,
we can no longer allow a term H(Li,0, k)⊕H(Lj,0, k) to be added to the output,
so we need to send an additional element of F2ρ as part of the garbled table. In
total, the authenticated garbling requires 2κ+3ρ bits of oﬄine circuit dependent
communication per AND gate.
In our NISC protocol, we also cannot have party B revealing masked wire
labels to A, because that would require additional rounds of communication.
We use the same approach as in our VOLE-only protocol, but need to show
additional care to verify that the protocol can be made non-interactive. We give
the details in Sect. 6.2 and additional details in the full version of this paper [12].
3
Authenticating Correlated Randomness
Before we proceed with a technical description of our main protocols, we give an
overview of the techniques related to correlated randomness we use throughout
the rest of the paper.
3.1
Compilers from “Random” to “Fixed” Randomness Variants
There is a standard compiler from random VOLE to ﬁxed VOLE (see e.g. [3])
that allows parties to replace a randomly selected vector v := aβ + c, where all
entries are chosen randomly, with a new vector v′ := a′β′ + c′, where a′, c′ are
chosen by the sender, β′ is chosen by the receiver, and the receiver additionally
learns v′ given above. The conversion protocol can be stated simply: the receiver
sends β′ −β to the sender, the sender sends a′ −a and c′ −c+(β′ −β)·a′ to the
receiver, and both parties adjust their shares locally. In cases where the sender
does not need to control the value of c′, the sender sends only a′ −a, and sets
their pair of vectors to (a′, c −(β′ −β) · a).
We can use this same compiler with block VOLE, where a vector a is used
across several instances of VOLE. To replace a random a with a ﬁxed vector a′,
party A only needs to send the message a′ −a once across all instances.

70
S. Dittmer et al.
A similar compiler exists for a batch of OLE correlations v := ab + c, where
one party sends a′ −a, the other sends b′ −b, and both parties compute locally
to obtain v′ := a′b′ + c′. As with block VOLE, if the random vector a is used
in multiple instances of programmable OLE, a single message suﬃces to convert
this vector to a′ across all instances.
For a careful accounting of round complexity, we note that, when the value
of c can be chosen randomly, these messages can be sent concurrently or in
sequence, in either order. If one party does not require ﬁxed inputs, that party
does not need to send a message at all.
3.2
Certiﬁcation Between Varieties of Correlated Randomness
Recall the “correlation calculus” introduced in Sect. 1.1, that allows us to express
each of our randomness functionalities in terms of a short list of atomic oper-
ations. This same “correlation calculus” allows us to re-use vectors and scalars
across distinct ﬂavors of correlated randomness as long as they are of the same
type (that is, VOLE-type or MT-type).
For example, if we wish to have an instance of FVOLE and an instance of
FsubVOLE using the same value β but diﬀerent vectors a, a′, then we generate
a, a′ randomly, multiple each vector by β, and share each of the results over the
desired ﬁeld. Similar approaches allow us to use the same vector and diﬀerent
values β, β′, and can also be applied to use the same vectors or values between
instances of FsubVOLE or FVOLE over diﬀerent (top-level) ﬁelds.
By combining this with the previous observation about compilers from ran-
dom to ﬁxed VOLE and OLE, we can allow any vector or scalar to be used as
an input to any instance of FVOLE, FsubVOLE, or FbVOLE.
There are three situations that are not covered by this approach, for which
we require bespoke protocols. Each of them work by extending the randomness
instances with fresh randomness and evaluating some short polynomial expres-
sion on the outputs, which will produce equal outputs for both parties if and
only if the desired equality condition holds. A random oracle is applied to the
outputs and then the results are compared; any number of certiﬁcations of this
form can be batched together by applying the random oracle to the collection
of outputs.
First, in Sect. 4 we wish to authenticate that the same value α is used in a
call to FVOLE and a call to FDAMT. These are generated by diﬀerent “correlation
calculuses”, and it would be a massive eﬃciency hit to generate FVOLE as MT-
type randomness. We give a lightweight protocol ΠDAMT∧VOLE
cert
in the full version
of this paper [12].
Second, in Sect. 5, we wish to show that, for two calls to VOLE with the
parties switching between the role of receiver and sender, the constant value β
used by one party in their role as receiver matches another value b used by the
same party while playing the role of the sender. We give a lightweight protocol
ΠVOLE∧ELOV
cert
in the full version of this paper [12].
Third, in Sects. 4 and 5, we wish to certify that two instances of subﬁeld
VOLE with diﬀerent receiver inputs α, ΔA over diﬀerent ﬁelds F2ρ, F2κ have

Authenticated Garbling from Simple Correlations
71
the same vector inputs b, even if one vector is generated via the compiler from
random to ﬁxed VOLE, and another is generated using an unspeciﬁed possibly
interactive protocol. We give a lightweight protocol Πρ∧κ
cert in the full version of
this paper [12].
3.3
Line Point Zero Knowledge
In [11], Dittmer, Ishai and Ostrovsky introduced Line Point Zero Knowledge, or
LPZK, a protocol for building a NIZK for general circuits using a single instance
of VOLE. When working in the random oracle model on circuits corresponding to
low degree polynomials, LPZK is especially powerful, because many veriﬁcations
can be batched together. As shown in [22], any number of polynomials on a total
of n inputs of degree at most d can be veriﬁed with communication of (n + d)κ
bits communication. For completeness, and because we use similar arguments
elsewhere in this paper, we sketch the argument here.
A prover P wishes to convince a veriﬁer V that P holds inputs a = (ai)
such that g(a) = 0. Each input ai becomes the entry of a VOLE vi = aiβ +
ci, and V evaluates g(v), which will be a polynomial in β of degree at most
d −1 if P is telling the truth. After masking these values with an oblivious
polynomial evaluation of degree d −1, P opens the coeﬃcients and V conﬁrms
the desired equality. In the ROM, many such checks can be batched together,
with V computing  g(v)H(m; i) and P computing the coeﬃcients of  g(at+
c)H(m; i), where m represents some message transcript committing P to the
values a, and i is the index representing the number of times we’ve evoked this
batch check.
This construction includes the cost of the compiler from random VOLE to
ﬁxed VOLE. In our case, where we wish to prove relations on an already set
ﬁxed VOLE, we can omit the nκ bits of communication, and send only dκ bits.
In this paper, we exclusively apply LPZK to the setting where we wish to prove
that already set VOLE inputs satisfy some collection of polynomials of degree d,
and take d ≤3 throughout. We write ΠLPZK(a, c, β, v, R) for the protocol that
proves that a satisﬁes the set of relations R, when one party holds (a, c) and
the other party holds β and v := aβ + c.
4
Authenticated Garbling from Authenticated Garbled
Triples
We follow the blueprint laid out in Sect. 2, giving the full protocol description and
proofs. Recall that in Fig. 1, we gave the a preprocessing functionality F(C,ρ,κ)
pre
used in the constructions of [21] and [15]. Let PAnd(n) be a circuit consisting of n
AND gates executed in parallel, so that the kth gate has input wires (2k −1, 2k)
and output wire 2n+k. Recall that we write Fpre(κ) for F(PAnd(n),κ,ρ)
pre
and Fpre(ρ)
for F(PAnd(n),ρ,ρ)
pre
.

72
S. Dittmer et al.
4.1
From Authenticated Bits to Parallel and with Authenticated
Triples
The underlying correlated randomness we need for our protocol is subﬁeld VOLE
for generating authenticated bits, VOLE, for running proofs of input correctness
under LPZK, and doubly authenticated multiplication triples, for converting
from authenticated bits to authenticated parallel AND.
Doubly authenticated multiplication triples can be generated from Ring-LPN
under the “correlation calculus” discussed in Sect. 1.1. This correlated random-
ness is nonstandard, although it can be viewed as a modiﬁed form of the authen-
ticated triples of SPDZ [10]. We give the functionality formally in Fig. 2. We then
prove the following lemma, which shows how to generate authenticated bits and
how to convert these bits to authenticated parallel AND gates.
Functionality F (ρ,n)
DAMT: Two-sided authenticated triple generation
Parametrized by values ρ, n ∈N.
– A chooses α ∈F2ρ and sends α to FDAMT.
– B chooses β ∈F2ρ and sends β to FDAMT.
– FDAMT samples vectors (x, y) uniformly at random from Fn
2ρ.
– FDAMT sets z := x · y, where the multiplication is done element-wise.
– FDAMT generates random shares (xA,1, yA,1, zA,1) and (xB,1, yB,1, zB,1) of the
vectors (x, y, z), with random shares chosen in F2ρ.
– FDAMT generates random shares (xA,2, yA,2, zA,2) and (xB,2, yB,2, zB,2) of the
vectors (αx, αy, αz), with random shares chosen in F2ρ.
– FDAMT generates random shares (xA,3, yA,3, zA,3) and (xB,3, yB,3, zB,3) of the
vectors (βx, βy, βz), with random shares chosen in F2ρ.
– For i ∈{1, 2, 3}, FDAMT sends (xA,i, yA,i, zA,i) to A and (xB,i, yB,i, zB,i) to B.
Fig. 2. Two-sided authenticated triples
Lemma 1. The protocol in Fig. 3 securely computes Fpre(ρ) against malicious
adversaries in the FDAMT −FsubVOLE −FVOLE-hybrid model with 2ρ bits of com-
munication from B to A and 2ρ bits of communication from A to B per AND
gate.
Completeness. Expanding as in the standard Beaver triple approach, we have
ˆak + ˆbk = ef + ey + fx + z = (ai + bi)(aj + bj),
as desired. Then note that
ˆwk + ˆdk = (ai + bi)(aj + bj)α + ˆakα = ˆbkα,

Authenticated Garbling from Simple Correlations
73
Protocol Πpre(ρ)
DAMT: Circuit dependent pre-processing of wire labels from
authenticated parallel AND gates.
Parametrized by values ρ, κ, and a circuit C consisting of W wires, I input wires,
O output wires, and gates G of the form (i, j, k, T), for T ∈{∧, ⊕}, i, j ∈I ∪W,
and k ∈W ∪O.
1. A and B invoke FsubVOLE with A as sender and B as receiver so that A receives
α ∈F2κ, B receives b ∈Fm
2 and d ∈Fm
2κ, and A receives w := bα + d.
2. A and B invoke FsubVOLE with B as sender and A as receiver, so that B receives
β ∈F2ρ, A receives a ∈Fm
2 and c ∈Fm
2ρ, and B receives v := aβ + c.
3. A and B invoke FDAMT with A’s input α, B’s input β, so that party P receives
(xP,ℓ,i, yP,ℓ,i, zP,ℓ,i) for ℓ∈{1, 2, 3} and 1 ≤i ≤n.
4. A and B compute the authentication messages (mA, mB) using ΠDAMT∧subVOLE
cert
.
A sends H(mA) to B, who veriﬁes that this equals H(mB), and otherwise
aborts.
5. Initialize a counter t ←1.
6. For each gate G = (i, j, k, T), in topological order:
– If T = ⊕:
• A sets the values ak = ai + aj, ck = ci + cj, and wk = wi + wj.
• B sets the values bk = bi + bj, dk = di + dj and vk = vi + vj.
– If T = ∧:
• A sends to B the messages
(mA
1 , mA
2 , mA
3 , mA
4 ) := (ai + xA,1,t, aj + yA,1,t, ci + xA,3,t, cj + yA,3,t).
• B sends to A the messages
(mB
1 , mB
2 , mB
3 , mB
4 ) := (bi + xB,1,t, bj + yB,1,t, di + xB,2,t, dj + yB,2,t).
• A locally veriﬁes that (wi+αxA,1,t+xA,2,t+mB
3 , wj +yA,2,t+αyA,1,t+
mB
4 ) = (mB
1 α, mB
2 α) and aborts if not.
• B locally veriﬁes that (vi + βxB,1 + xB,3 + mA
3 , vj + yB,3,t + βyB,1,t +
mA
4 ) = (mA
1 β, mA
2 β) and aborts if not.
• Both parties locally compute e := mA
1 + mB
1 and f := mA
2 + mB
2 .
• A locally computes
ˆak = ef + eyA,1,t + fxA,1,t + zA,1,t
ˆck = eyA,3,t + fxA,3,t + zA,3,t
ˆwk = (ef + ˆak)α + eyA,2,t + fxA,2,t + zA,2,t.
• B locally computes
ˆbk = eyB,1,t + fxB,1,t + zB,1,t
ˆdk = eyB,2,t + fxB,2,t + zB,2,t
ˆvk = (ef + ˆbk)β + eyB,3,t + fxB,3,t + zB,3,t.
• t ←t + 1.
7. Party A performs
ˆw →ˆw + (a + lsb(ˆa))α, ˆa →lsb(ˆa)
8. Party B performs
ˆv →ˆv + (b + lsb(ˆb))β, ˆb →lsb(ˆb),
Fig. 3. Authenticated parallel AND gates from FDAMT

74
S. Dittmer et al.
as desired. Similarly, we have ˆakβ + ˆck = ˆvk, as desired.
At the end of the protocol, parties A and B locally adjust these shares so
that ˆa and ˆb become vectors of bits. Since ˆa+ ˆb ∈{0, 1}n, we have (a+lsb(ˆa)) =
(b + lsb(ˆb)), so this adjustment preserves the desired relations.
Security. By the symmetry of the protocol, it is suﬃcient to consider the case
of a malicious A. Let A be an adversary corrupting A. First, we show that if A
sends incorrect values in a message, B will abort with overwhelming probability.
Indeed, if A sends ai + xA,1 + φ1 instead of ai + xA,1 and ci + xA,3 + φ2 instead
of ci + xA,3, B will verify whether
(ai + xA,1 + φ1)β = (ai + xA,1)β + φ2,
i.e. whether βφ1 = φ2.
We can then construct a simple simulator S that runs A as a subroutine
and plays the role of A in the ideal world. The simulator generates B’s last two
messages uniformly at random, and the ﬁrst two messages so that they satisfy the
desired check. By the uniform randomness of yB,1 and yB,2, the distribution of
B’s messages di+yB,1, dj +yB,2 in the real world are identical to the distribution
of S’s simulation of B in the ideal world. Since bi + xB,1 and bj + xB,2 can be
computed from A’s data and the message di + yB,1, dj + yB,2, the distribution
of these values are identical as well.
S then sends B’s messages to A, and aborts if A responds with anything
besides (ai+xA,1, aj+yB,1, ci+xA,3, cj+yA,3). Otherwise, S outputs whatever A
outputs. As discussed above, with overwhelming probability an honest B aborts
in the real world whenever S aborts, so the joint distribution of the outputs
of A and an honest B in the real world are indistinguishable from the joint
distribution of the outputs of A and S in the ideal world.
4.2
Circuit-Dependent Preprocessing from Parallel and Gates
We now go from authenticated parallel AND gates over ρ to authenticated par-
allel AND gates over κ, and then to authenticated circuit wires. We begin with
the conversion from Fpre(ρ) to Fpre(κ).
Lemma 2. The protocol in Fig. 4 realizes F(C,ρ,κ)
pre
securely in the F(C,ρ,ρ)
pre
−
FsubVOLE-RO hybrid model, at the cost of an additional 3n+O(κ) bits of commu-
nication. In particular, Fpre(κ) is securely realizable in the Fpre(ρ) −FsubVOLE-RO
hybrid model.
Proof. Completeness. We have w′ = b′ΔA + d′ and ˆw′ = ˆb′ΔA + ˆd′ both
immediately before Step 4 and immediately after Step 5. The desired relations
on the vectors a+b, ˆa+ˆb follow from the correctness of the F(C,ρ,ρ)
pre
functionality.
Security. Security of steps 1,2, and 6 follow from the security of the under-
lying protocols. Security against a malicious B follows from the correctness of
Πρ∧κ
cert , shown in the full version of this paper [12], which guarantees that A (or
a simulator S) will detect an incorrect message with high probability.

Authenticated Garbling from Simple Correlations
75
For security against a malicious A, note that A sends no message in steps
3 through 5, and that the messages m1, m2 can be simulated by sampling
uniformly random sequences of bits, by the security of FsubVOLE.
Complexity. We have |w| = 2n and | ˆw| = n, so the messages m1, m2 take
2n + n = 3n bits. The certiﬁcation step calling Πρ∧κ
cert costs O(κ) bits, as shown
in the full version of this paper [12]. See Sect. 3.2 for an overview of this certiﬁed
functionality notation.
Protocol Πpre(κ)
pre(ρ): Circuit dependent pre-processing of wire labels from
authenticated parallel ρ-AND gates.
Parametrized by values ρ, κ, and a circuit C consisting of W wires, I input wires,
O output wires, and gates G of the form (i, j, k, T), for T ∈{∧, ⊕}, i, j ∈I ∪W,
and k ∈W ∪O.
1. A and B invoke F (C,ρ,ρ)
pre
, generating vectors a, c, w, ˆa, ˆc, ˆw and a value α for A
and vectors b, d, v, ˆb, ˆd, ˆv and a value β for B.
2. A and B invoke FsubVOLE with B as sender and A as receiver for the ﬁelds
(F2, F2κ), so that B learns b′, d′, ˆb′, ˆd′, and A learns ΔA ∈F2κ and vectors
w′ := b′ΔA + d′ and ˆw′ := ˆb′ΔA + ˆd′.
3. B sends to A the vectors m1 := b + b′ and m2 := ˆb + ˆb′.
4. A adds to obtain w′ ←w′ + m1ΔA and ˆw′ ←ˆw′ + m2ΔA.
5. B adds to obtain b′ ←b′ + m1, ˆb′ ←ˆb′ + m2.
6. A and B invoke Πρ∧κ
cert to certify that the new values of b, ˆb match their original
values.
7. A and B return a, c, w′, ˆa, ˆc, ˆw′, ΔA and b′, d′, v, ˆb′, ˆd′, ˆv, β respectively.
Fig. 4. Authenticated wire labels over κ from wire labels over ρ
Next, for completeness, we give a protocol for converting from Fpre(κ) to
F(C,ρ,κ)
pre
. The following result is implicit in [15] and [21].
Lemma 3. Let C be a circuit with n AND gates. Then the protocol in Fig. 5
securely computes F(C,κ,ρ)
pre
against malicious adversaries in the RO-subVOLE-
Fpre(κ) hybrid model, with an additional 2n bits of communication.
Proof. The security of the ﬁrst three steps follows from the security of the under-
lying protocols.
Correctness is immediate, and the proof of security against malicious parties
is similar to the proof of Lemma 1.

76
S. Dittmer et al.
Protocol Πpre(C)
pre(κ) : Circuit dependent pre-processing of wire labels from
authenticated parallel AND gates.
Parametrized by values ρ, κ, and a circuit C consisting of W wires, I input wires,
O output wires, and gates G of the form (i, j, k, T), for T ∈{∧, ⊕}, i, j ∈I ∪W,
and k ∈W ∪O.
1. A and B invoke FsubVOLE with A as sender and B as receiver, so that A receives
α ∈F2κ, B receives b ∈Fm
2 and d ∈Fm
2κ, and A receives w := bα + d.
2. A and B invoke FsubVOLE with B as sender and A as receiver, so that B receives
β ∈F2ρ, A receives a ∈Fm
2 and c ∈Fm
2ρ, and B receives v := aβ + c.
3. A and B invoke F(PAnd(n),κ,ρ)
pre(ρ)
so that A obtains (w′, ˆw′, ˆa′, ˆc′) and B obtains
(v′, ˆv′, ˆa′, ˆc′).
4. For each gate G = (i, j, k, T), in topological order:
– If T = ⊕:
• A sets the values ak = ai + aj, ck = ci + cj, and wk = wi + wj.
B sets the values bk = bi + bj, dk = di + dj and vk = vi + vj.
– If T = ∧is the t-th AND gate:
• A sends (ai + a′
2t−1, aj + a′
2t) to B
• B sends (bi + b′
2t−1, bj + b′
2t) to A
• A and B locally compute ek := ai + bi + a′
2t−1 + b′
2t−1 and fk :=
aj + bj + a′
2t + b′
2t.
• A locally computes
ˆak = ekfk + ekaj + fkai + ˆa′
t
ˆck = ekcj + fkci + ˆc′
t
ˆwk = ekwj + fkwi + ˆw′
t.
• B locally computes
ˆbk = ekbj + fkbi + ˆb′
t
ˆdk = ekdj + fkdi + ˆd′
t
ˆvk = ekfkβ + ekvj + fkvi + ˆv′
t.
Fig. 5. Authenticated wire labels from authenticated parallel AND gates
Remark 3. As discussed in Sect. 2.1, Katz et al. in [15] realize Fpre(κ) using an
optimized version of the TinyOT protocol. Their protocol, in addition to the
cost of producing authenticated bits, which could be done with sublinear com-
munication under VOLE, requires Bκ bits of communication per gate, with
B ≈ρ/ log |C|. In particular, B ≥3 for |C| < 2ρ. Adding back in the 2κ bits
required in the online phase, the cost of [15] is at least 2.5x the cost of a semi-
honest garbled circuit for circuits with size |C| < 2ρ. Unfortunately, Lemma 2
does not oﬀer any improvements the approach of [15], since their compiler to

Authenticated Garbling from Simple Correlations
77
Fpre(κ) requires computational security, and so replacing it with a compiler to
Fpre(ρ) would still require Bκ bits per gate.
An alternative realization of the Fpre(κ) functionality could be accomplished
by the SPDZ protocol [10]. This would consume 6 authenticated multiplication
triples per AND gate and require 12κ additional communication under a naive
implementation. Applying Lemma 2 to the naive SPDZ-style approach gives a
compiler to Fpre(κ) by way of Fpre(ρ) that costs 12ρ+3 bits of communication per
gate, and thus 2κ + 12ρ + 3 bits per gate for the entire protocol, approximately
3x the cost of a semi-honest garbled circuit.
4.3
Authenticated Garbling
The only changes we make to the authenticated garbling protocol of [15] are
after-eﬀects of our decision to alter the preprocessing functionality so that A
does not hold a mask for a wire value that is one of B’s inputs, and vice versa.
The only steps that change materially therefore are steps 3 and 4. Step 3 in [15],
after translating into the language of VOLE, reads:
– For each i ∈IB, A sends ai to B and invoke ΠLPZK to prove that this ai
matches the value in Fpre. B then sends yi ⊕λi = yi ⊕ai ⊕bi to A. Finally,
A sends Li,yi⊕λi to B.
We replace this step with the following:
– For each i ∈IB, B sends yi ⊕bi to A. Then A sends Li,yi⊕bi to B.
It is possible to simulate the previous protocol from this version by having
B generate A’s messages ai uniformly at random for i ∈IA, and adjusting
their value bi to keep the sum ai ⊕bi constant, and having A set ai = 0. These
adjustments can occur without any communication, since the values ai, bi are
never used again by A, B respectively. Therefore the security of one protocol
implies the security of the other. We make similar adjustments to Step 4.
Proof of Theorem 1. Combining the three lemmas in this section gives a real-
ization of F(C,ρ,κ)
pre
in the FDAMT −FVOLE −FsubVOLE model. Applying Theorem 4
and incorporating the minor changes to the authenticated garbling protocol out-
lined above gives that the desired ΠDAMT
2pc
protocol.
5
Authenticated Garbling from Block VOLE
5.1
Compressed Authenticated Bits from Block VOLE
We begin by stating formally the compressed preprocessing functionality and
the block (subﬁeld) VOLE functionality.

78
S. Dittmer et al.
The compressed preprocessing functionality compresses B’s wire labels
belonging to AND gates in b to a much shorter vector b of length
L := ρ log n −ρ log ρ
log 2
+ 2ρ.
Write bI for input wires, and b′ for AND gate wires. Then the vector b is
determined from bI ∪b′ in the obvious way, and b′ is determined from b by some
public linear transformation MH. Similarly B’s wire masks d′ are computed as
MH d, where d ∈FL
2κ (Fig. 6).
Functionality F (C,ρ)
cp
: Compressed pre-processing of wire labels for authenticated
garbling.
Parametrized by the value ρ, and a circuit C consisting of W wires, I input wires,
O output wires, and gates G of the form (i, j, k, T), for T ∈{∧, ⊕}, i, j ∈I ∪W,
and k ∈W ∪O. Let n be the number of AND gates. Where clear from context, we
omit the parameters C, ρ, κ and write Fcp for F (C,ρ,κ)
cp
.
– All parties compute
L = ρ log n −ρ log ρ
log 2
+ 2ρ.
– A chooses α ∈F2ρ and wire labels a ∈Fn
2 , c ∈Fn
2ρ and sends them to Fcp.
– B chooses β ∈F2ρ and wire labels bI ∈F|I|,b ∈FL
2 , dI ∈F|I|
2ρ , d ∈FL
2ρ and
sends them to Fcp.
– Fcp chooses a random n × L matrix MH over F2 and sends MH to A and B.
– Fcp computes the vectors b′, d′ via b, = MHb and d′ = MH d, and computes
b, d from b′, d′.
– As a sub-protocol, Fcp runs a simulation of the interaction of A, B, and F(C,ρ,κ)
pre
using α, β, a, b, c, d as the various parties’ inputs, and stores the output.
– Fcp sends (v, ˆv, ˆb, ˆd) to B and (w, ˆa, ˆc) to A.
– A sends either Honest or (Cheat, m∗) to Fcp.
– If A sent Honest, then Fcp sends ( ˆw) to A.
– If A sent (Cheat, m∗), then Fcp sends ( ˆw + m∗β−1) to A.
Fig. 6. Compressed authenticated wire labels
The other change made in this pre-processing functionality is that we allow
party A to cheat in such a way that is not immediately detected, but corrupts its
own output. Speciﬁcally, if A sends faulty messages, A can ensure both parties
hold shares of ˆbiα+m∗β−1, rather than ˆbiα. Since A does not know β, A cannot
use these corrupted shares, and B will discover the error and abort during the
execution of the authenticated garbling, as we show in Sect. 5.3.

Authenticated Garbling from Simple Correlations
79
Functionality F (F,E,k,n)
bVOLE
: Block VOLE
Parametrized by a pair of ﬁelds F ⊆E and integers k and n. In this paper, we
have F ∈{F2, F2ρ} and E = F2ρ. We refer colloquially to the ﬁrst variant as block
subﬁeld VOLE and the second as block VOLE.
– B chooses parameters β1, . . . , βk ∈E and sends them to FbVOLE.
– FbVOLE chooses a collection of vectors b1, . . . , bk ∈En and sends the vectors to
A.
– A chooses a vector a ∈F n and sends a to FbVOLE.
– For i = 1, . . . , k, the functionality FbVOLE computes vi = aβi + bi and sends
the result to B.
Fig. 7. Block subﬁeld VOLE
5.2
From Block VOLE to Compressed Authenticated Wire Labels
We realize this preprocessing functionality using block VOLE, a collection of
VOLE or subﬁeld VOLE instances where one party A uses the same inputs
across the VOLE calls. We deﬁne this protocol formally in Fig. 7, and give the
converter from block VOLE to Fcp in Fig. 8. We note that, in Step 12, if a is one
of A’s input to a block VOLE, and b + γ and γ are two of B’s inputs to that
block VOLE, then A and B can produce shares of the value ab by subtracting
their respective shares of a(b + γ) and aγ. All monomial terms in Step 12 can
be shared in this fashion. We defer the proof of the following lemma to the full
version of this paper [12].
Lemma 4. The protocol in Fig. 8 can securely compute F(C,ρ,ρ)
cp
against mali-
cious adversaries in the FbVOLE −FVOLE −FsubVOLE model with 1 + O( L
n) bits of
communication per gate from B to A and 5ρ + 1 bits of communication per gate
from A to B.
To convert from F(C,ρ,ρ)
cp
to F(C,ρ,κ)
cp
, we used almost the identical protocol
to that used to convert from Fpre(ρ) to Fpre(κ).
Lemma 5. The protocol in Fig. 4 realizes F(C,ρ,κ)
cp
in the F(C,ρ,ρ)
cp
−FsubVOLE-
hybrid model, replacing F(C,ρ,ρ)
pre
with F(C,ρ,ρ)
cp
in Step 1.
Proof. The argument is identical to the argument in Lemma 2. We need only
note that the messages m1, m2 are still uniformly random in A’s view, in spite
of the linear relations on b allowed by Fcp, because of the masks b′, ˆb′.
5.3
Authenticated Garbling
In Fig. 9, we give our modiﬁed authenticated garbled circuit protocol. The wire
labels are computed as in [15], but in the authentication step we apply the half

80
S. Dittmer et al.
Protocol Πcp(C, ρ): Compressed pre-processing of wire labels for authenticated
garbling.
Parametrized by the value ρ, and a circuit C consisting of W wires, I input wires,
O output wires, and gates G of the form (i, j, k, T), for T ∈{∧, ⊕}, i, j ∈I ∪W,
and k ∈W ∪O. Let n be the number of AND gates.
1. All parties compute
L = ρ log n −ρ log ρ
log 2
+ 2ρ
and choose a public n × L matrix MH over F2.
2. A and B invoke FsubVOLE with B as sender and A as receiver, so that B learns
(b, d) and A holds w, with length of the VOLE equal to L.
3. The
parties
extend
the
VOLE
by
length
n,
with
additional
entries
(wi,j, bi,j, di,j) where bi,j is the (i, j)-th entry of (MHb)T · (MHb).
4. Party A locally computes w = MH w.
5. B constructs the vector b = biβ + γ, β + γ, γ with γ ∈F2ρ chosen randomly.
6. Party A constructs the vector a := a∪(aiaj)∪(ˆai). The ﬁrst vector is A’s input
to Fcp, the second vector is the the values ai ∧aj, for every multiplication gate
Gk = (∧, i, j), and the third vector is a string of random bits which will be part
of A’s output.
7. The parties call Extend(FsubVOLE), adding b as an additional L + 2 entries.
8. A and B perform F (F2ρ ,F2,L+2,n)
bVOLE
, the subﬁeld variant of block VOLE, with B’s
inputs the vector b and A’s inputs the vector a.
9. A and B invoke F(F2ρ ,F2ρ ,L+2,n)
bVOLE
. B’s input to the block VOLE is again the
vector b with γ as above, and A’s input is the vector α · a ∪(ˆai,2) ∪{α}, that
is, A’s input above multiplied by α, along with a vector of masks ˆai,2 ∈F2ρ
and the additional input α.
10. Both parties call ΠLPZK to prove correctness of the values ai ∧aj, bi,j, and biβ
under LPZK.
11. B certiﬁes that their inputs to the block VOLE match their inputs to the VOLE
with A as receiver, with the ΠVOLE∧ELOV
cert
protocol discussed in §3.2.
12. B locally computes:
ˆvi := ˆaiβ + ˆci
vi,2 := ˆai,2β + ci,2
vi,3 := ˆaiαβ + ci,3
vi,4 := (aiaj + aibj + ajbi)β + ci,4
vi,5 := (aiaj + aibj + ajbi)αβ + ci,5
where all terms ˆci, ci,j can be computed locally by A.
13. A sends to B the terms (mi,1, mi,2) := (ˆci +ci,4, ci,2 +ci,3 +ci,5), and B deﬁnes
ˆbi := (ˆvi + vi,4 + mi,1) β−1 + bibj
and
ˆdi := (vi,2 + vi,3 + vi,5 + mi,2)β−1 + di,j,
respectively.
14. A adds locally to hold ˆwi := ˆai,2 + wi,j.
Fig. 8. Compressed authenticated wire labels from block VOLE

Authenticated Garbling from Simple Correlations
81
gate technique of Zahur et al. [25] to the secondary garbled circuit approach of
[21]. We also replace Fpre with Fcp, and modify Steps 3 and 4 by setting unneeded
wire masks to 0 as in Sect. 4.3.
Lemma 6. The protocol given in Fig. 9 securely computes a functionality f
against malicious adversaries in the RO-F(C,ρ,κ)
cp
−FsubVOLE −FVOLE-hybrid
model, with 2κ + 3ρ bits of communication per AND gate, κ + 1 bits of com-
munication per input gate, and 1 bit of communication per output gate.
The key diﬃculty is protecting against a selective failure attack by A. Learn-
ing whether or not B aborts is equivalent to corrupting some subset of t table
entries (by corrupting the messages Gi,j or G′
i,j), and learning whether B opened
any of those table entries during circuit evaluation. If the t table entries chosen
correspond to rows of MH that are linearly independent, then the labels MHb
are independent, and the probability of failure is 1 −2−t.
We therefore give a simulator that aborts with probability 1−2−t, and restrict
our attention to the case where the t entries correspond to linearly dependent
rows of MH. To treat this case, we recall the notion of (t, k)-independent sets
(the concept was ﬁrst introduced in [13], see [20] for a thorough treatment, and
[8,9] for additional discussion). A (t, k)-independent set over Fq is a subset of
Fk
q such that no t + 1 element subset is linearly dependent. For our purposes, it
is suﬃcient to construct a (ρ −1, L)-independent set B ⊆FL
2 such that |B| = n
via a randomized algorithm. Then either the simulator gives the correct abort
probability or the protocol aborts almost surely, with probability at least 1−2−ρ,
and either way party A learns nothing. We give the full proof in the full version
of this paper [12].
Proof of Theorem 2. We begin with FbVOLE. We use Lemma 4 to construct
F(C,ρ,ρ)
cp
, Lemma 5 to construct F(C,ρ,κ)
cp
and prove the correctness of ΠVOLE
2pc
in
Lemma 6.
6
NISC from Garbled Circuits
6.1
Conditional Disclosure of Secrets from Programmable OLE
We construct a NISC protocol with A as sender and B as receiver. We gener-
ate our authenticated bits and the related conversion protocol to authenticated
circuit wire labels using the programmable OLE functionality given in Fig. 10.
This protocol allows us to the piece-wise product of any pair of vectors selected
from a collection of p vectors from A and q vectors from B.
Two obstacles present themselves in the conversion from programmable OLE
to authenticated circuit wire labels. First, we can no longer use ΠLPZK to certify
B’s inputs, since this would violate non-interactivity. Instead, we use a special-
ized conditional disclosure of secrets (CDS) protocol that ensures that any future
messages from A will be uniformly random if B cheats. The second obstacle is

82
S. Dittmer et al.
Protocol ΠVOLE
2pc
Inputs: Party A holds x ∈{0, 1}|I1| and B holds y ∈{0, 1}|I2|. Both parties hold
a circuit C for a function f : {0, 1}|I1|+|I2| →{0, 1}|O|.
1. A and B call F(C,ρ,ρ)
cp
and then the compiler from F(C,ρ,ρ)
cp
to F (C,ρ,κ)
cp
, so that
A holds ΔA, w, ˆw, a, ˆa, c, ˆc and B holds β, , v, ˆv, b, ˆb, d, ˆd. For each i ∈I1 ∪I2,
A also picks a uniform κ-bit string Li,0. The parties jointly determine keys to
hash functions H : F2κ × {1, . . . , n} →F2κ and H′ : F2κ × {1, . . . , n} →F2ρ.
2. Following the topological order of the circuit, for each gate G = (i, j, k, T),
– If T = ⊕, A computes Lk,0 := Li,0 ⊕Lj,0
– If T = ∧, A computes Li,1 := Li,0 ⊕ΔA, Lj,1 := Lj,0 ⊕ΔA, and
• Gk,0 := H(Li,0, k) ⊕H(Li,1, k) ⊕wj ⊕ajΔA
• Gk,1 := H(Lj,0, k) ⊕H(Lj,1, k) ⊕wi ⊕aiΔA ⊕Li,0
• Lk,0 := H(Li,0, k) ⊕H(Lj,0, k) ⊕(wk ⊕ˆwk) ⊕(ak ⊕ˆak) · ΔA
• G′
k,0 := H′(Li,0, k) ⊕H′(Lj,0, k) ⊕ck ⊕ˆck
• G′
k,1 := H′(Li,0, k) ⊕H′(Li,1, k) ⊕cj
• G′
k,2 := H′(Lj,0, k) ⊕H′(Lj,1, k) ⊕ci
A sends Gk,0, Gk,1, G′
k,0, G′
k,1, G′
k,2 to B.
3. For each i ∈IB, B sends yi ⊕bi to A. Then A sends Li,yi⊕bi to B.
4. For each i ∈IA, A sends xi ⊕ai and Li,xi⊕ai to B.
5. B evaluates the circuit in topological order. For each gate G = (i, j, k, T), B
initially holds (zi ⊕λi, Li,zi⊕λi) and (zj ⊕λj, Lj,zj⊕λj), where zi, zj are the
underlying values of the wires.
(a) If T = ⊕, B computes zk ⊕λk := (zi ⊕λi) ⊕(zj ⊕λj) and Lk,zk⊕λk :=
Li,zi⊕λi ⊕Lj,zj⊕λj.
(b) If T = ∧, B computes G0 := Gk,0 ⊕dj, G1 := Gk,1 ⊕di, and evaluates the
garbled table (G0, G1) to obtain the output label
Lk,zk⊕λk := H ((Li,zi⊕λi), k) ⊕H (Lj,zj⊕λj, k

⊕(dk ⊕ˆdk)
⊕(zi ⊕λi)G0 ⊕(zj ⊕λj)(G1 ⊕Li,zi⊕λi).
Then B computes
bk ⊕ˆbk ⊕(zi ⊕λi)bj ⊕(zj ⊕λj)bi ⊕(zi ⊕λi) ∧(zj ⊕λj)
⊕((vk ⊕ˆvk ⊕(zi ⊕λi)vj ⊕(zj ⊕λj)vi) β−1
⊕

H′(Li,zi⊕λi ) ⊕H′(Lj,zj⊕λj ) ⊕G′
k,0 ⊕(zi ⊕λi)G′
k,1 ⊕(zj ⊕λj)G′
k,2

β−1
= λk ⊕ˆλk ⊕(zi ⊕λi)λj ⊕(zj ⊕λj)λi ⊕(zi ⊕λi) ∧(zj ⊕λj)
= λk ⊕zk
6. For each i ∈O, A sends ai to B and calls ΠLPZK to prove these values are
correct. B computes zi := (λi ⊕zi) ⊕ai ⊕bi.
Fig. 9. Authenticated garbling protocol in the Fcp hybrid model

Authenticated Garbling from Simple Correlations
83
Functionality F (n,κ,p,q,Q)
OLE
: Programmable OLE over a ﬁeld F2κ and relations Q.
Parametrized by integers n, p, q, κ ∈N and a set of relations Q ⊆{1, . . . , p} ×
{1, . . . , q}, i.e. elements q ∈Q are ordered pairs of integers.
– A chooses a collection of vectors a1, . . . , ap of length n and sends them to
F (n,κ,p,q,Q)
OLE
.
– B chooses a collection of vectors b1, . . . , bq of length n and sends them to
F (n,κ,p,q,Q)
OLE
.
– For each entry q = (i, j) ∈Q, F (n,κ,p,q,Q)
OLE
chooses vectors vq, cq with vq +cq =
ai · bj.
– F (n,κ,Q)
OLE
sends vq to A and cq to B, for all q ∈Q.
Fig. 10. Programmable OLE
related to the task of minimizing p and q so that the protocol is concretely
eﬃcient, and we cover it in Sect. 6.2.
For CDS, informally, B sends a message to A that allows A to learn a secret
value sB known to B if and only if B’s message satisﬁes a desired set of relations.
Otherwise, A will compute a guess sA, which on at least one entry will appear
random to B. Then A appends H(sA) to all future messages to B, so that B
can recover the underlying message if and only if sA = sB. We give a formal
deﬁnition of this functionality in Fig. 11.
We give a protocol realizing this functionality in Fig. 12, and prove its cor-
rectness in the full version of this paper [12]. Our protocol works by ﬁrst proving
that A and B each have one input vector that is constant, and using that to
realize instances of subﬁeld VOLE over A’s input α and each of B’s input vectors
bi. Write Q′ := Q ∪{(p + 1, j)} ∪{(i, q + 1)}, for 1 ≤j ≤q + 1 and 1 ≤i ≤p,
and Q′′ := Q′ ∪{(p + 1, j} for j = q + 2, q + 3, q + 4.
It is possible to move Step 6 to Step 2, making the protocol non-interactive,
since the values ˆc(j,k)
i
used in Step 6 can be computed locally by B from the
output of the random FOLE functionality and B’s inputs. Step 6 is separated
from Step 2 because the most complicated part of the protocol is in Steps 6
and 7, which are used to verify the relations in R2. Removing Steps 6 and 7 and
using Q′ instead of Q′′ gives a warm-up CDS protocol for certifying the relations
in R1 only.
Lemma 7. The protocol in Fig. 12 realizes the functionality F(n,κ,p,q,Q,R)
CDS
non-
interactively in the RO-F(n,κ,p+1,q+4,Q′′,R)
OLE
-hybrid model.

84
S. Dittmer et al.
Functionality F (n,κ,p,q,Q,R)
CDS
: CDS for F (n,κ,p,q,Q)
OLE
over a ﬁeld F2κ and relations
R.
Parametrized by integers n, κ, p, q, ∈N, a set of relations Q ⊆{1, . . . , p}×{1, . . . , q}
as above, and a set of relations R = R1 ∪R2, where R1 is a collection of equality
constraints bj
i = bℓ
k, and R2 is a collection of quadratic relations of the form b1
i ·b1
j =
b1
k. Additionally, let m be a message that A plans to send to B.
– A and B interact with FCDS playing the role of FOLE on B’s input vectors
bi ∈Fn
2 for 1 ≤i ≤q and A’s input vectors ai, vq ∈Fn
2κ for 1 ≤i ≤p and
q ∈Q.
– If the vectors bi satisﬁes the relations in R, FCDS sends m to B.
– If any of the vectors bi do not satisfy the relations in R, FCDS sends a random
vector to B.
Fig. 11. Programmable OLE with conditional disclosure of secrets
6.2
Non-interactive Authenticated Circuit Wires and Authenticated
Garbling
The remainder of the construction is similar to the construction given in Sect. 5.
We give a brief overview here, and a more detailed description in the appendices.
As discussed in Sect. 1.1, the randomness computation time and the seed size
grow with the number of piece-wise products required, i.e. with |Q| using the
notation in the functionality description. In order to minimize the numbers p, q
required, we construct for A three vectors of inputs: a, aL, aR, where a, chosen
randomly, represents authenticated bits for all wires, aL represents only bit labels
for wires used as labels for left inputs to multiplication gates, so that aL
k is the left
input to the kth multiplication gate, and aR likewise represents only bit labels for
wires used as labels for right inputs to multiplication gates. We similarly deﬁne
b, bL, bR. The full construction of the preprocessing functionality is similar to
the protocol Πcp. We give this protocol and a proof of its correctness in the full
version of this paper [12].
The authenticated garbling functionality is also similar to the protocol ΠVOLE
2pc
used in the VOLE-only case, replacing Fcp with the NISC preprocessing func-
tionality. Besides the ﬁrst step of generating the preprocessing functionality,
which is non-interactive by construction, the only message from B to A is given
in Step 3, when B sends bit masks of its input values yi ⊕bi. This communica-
tion can be moved to Step 1 with no loss of security, making the entire protocol
non-interactive, which we prove in the full version of this paper [12].

Authenticated Garbling from Simple Correlations
85
Protocol ΠCDS: Conditional disclosure of secrets over programmable OLE.
Parametrized by integers n, κ, p, q, ∈N, a set of relations Q ⊆{1, . . . , p}×{1, . . . , q}
as above, and a set of relations R = R1 ∪R2 as above. Additionally, let m be a
message that A plans to send to B.
1. A and B choose random values α, β ∈F2κ and deﬁne the vectors α :=
(α, . . . , α) and β := (β, . . . , β).
2. A and B invoke F(n,κ,p+1,q+1,Q′)
OLE
with the additional inputs ap+1 := α, bq+1 :=
β. Let (mi
A) be the messages that A sends during the random-to-ﬁxed OLE
compiler, and let ˆc(j,k)
i
be the vectors held by B before receiving (mi
A).
3. A computes s1
A := (v(p+1,q+1)
1
−v(p+1,q+1)
2
, . . . , v(p+1,q+1)
1
−v(p+1,q+1)
n
).
4. B computes s1
B := (c(p+1,q+1)
1
−c(p+1,q+1)
2
, . . . , c(p+1,q+1)
1
−c(p+1,q+1)
n
).
5. For each relation bj
i = bℓ
k ∈R1, A appends v(p+1,j)
i
−v(p+1,ℓ)
k
to s2
A and B
appends c(p+1,j)
i
−c(p+1,ℓ)
k
to s2
B
6. B constructs three additional vectors, each of length equal to |R2|, with
bq+2 = (b1
i ˆc(p+1,1)
j
+ (b1
jˆc(p+1,1)
i
), bq+3 = (b1
i b1
j), and bq+4 = ˆc(p+1,1)
k
for triples
(i, j, k) ∈R2, and both parties call Extend(FOLE),so that A and B now hold
F(n,κ,p+1,q+4,Q′′)
OLE
.
7. For each relation b1
i · b1
j = b1
k ∈R2, let r be the index of this relation in R2.
A appends v(p+1,1)
i
· v(p+1,1)
j
−αv(p+1,1)
k
−v(p+1,q+2)
r
−(v(p+1,q+3)
r
) · (m1
A,i +
m1
A,j)−(v(p+1,q+4)
r
)m1
A,k to s3
A, and B appends c(p+1,1)
i
·c(p+1,1)
j
−(c(p+1,q+3)
r
)·
(m1
A,i + m1
A,j) −(c(p+1,q+4)
r
)m1
A,k to s3
B.
8. Each party P computes sP := ∪isi
P .
9. A sends m1 := m + H(sA) to B.
10. B computes m2 := m1 + H(sB) and outputs m2.
Fig. 12. Conditional disclosure of secrets
Acknowledgements. Supported in part by DARPA Contract No. HR001120C0087.
Any opinions, ﬁndings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material
are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reﬂect the views of DARPA. Y. Ishai
supported in part by ERC Project NTSC (742754), BSF grant 2018393, and ISF grant
2774/20.
References
1. Afshar, A., Mohassel, P., Pinkas, B., Riva, B.: Non-interactive secure computation
based on cut-and-choose. In: Nguyen, P.Q., Oswald, E. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2014.
LNCS, vol. 8441, pp. 387–404. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-642-55220-5 22
2. Beaver, D.: Eﬃcient multiparty protocols using circuit randomization. In: Feigen-
baum, J. (ed.) CRYPTO 1991. LNCS, vol. 576, pp. 420–432. Springer, Heidelberg
(1992). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-46766-1 34

86
S. Dittmer et al.
3. Boyle, E., Couteau, G., Gilboa, N., Ishai, Y.: Compressing vector OLE. In: CCS
2018, pp. 896–912 (2018)
4. Boyle, E., et al.: Eﬃcient two-round OT extension and silent non-interactive secure
computation. In: CCS 2019, pp. 291–308 (2019)
5. Boyle, E., Couteau, G., Gilboa, N., Ishai, Y., Kohl, L., Scholl, P.: Eﬃcient pseu-
dorandom correlation generators: silent OT extension and more. In: Boldyreva,
A., Micciancio, D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019, Part III. LNCS, vol. 11694, pp. 489–518.
Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-26954-8 16
6. Boyle, E., Couteau, G., Gilboa, N., Ishai, Y., Kohl, L., Scholl, P.: Eﬃcient pseu-
dorandom correlation generators from ring-LPN. In: Micciancio, D., Ristenpart,
T. (eds.) CRYPTO 2020, Part II. LNCS, vol. 12171, pp. 387–416. Springer, Cham
(2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-56880-1 14
7. Couteau, G., Rindal, P., Raghuraman, S.: Silver: silent VOLE and oblivious trans-
fer from hardness of decoding structured LDPC codes. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C.
(eds.) CRYPTO 2021, Part III. LNCS, vol. 12827, pp. 502–534. Springer, Cham
(2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84252-9 17
8. Damelin, S.B., Michalski, G., Mullen, G.L.: The cardinality of sets of k-independent
vectors over ﬁnite ﬁelds. Monatshefte f¨ur Mathematik 150(4), 289–295 (2007)
9. Damelin, S.B., Michalski, G., Mullen, G.L., Stone, D.: The number of linearly
independent binary vectors with applications to the construction of hypercubes
and orthogonal arrays, pseudo (t, m, s)-nets and linear codes. Monatshefte f¨ur
Mathematik 141(4), 277–288 (2004)
10. Damg˚ard, I., Pastro, V., Smart, N., Zakarias, S.: Multiparty computation from
somewhat homomorphic encryption. In: Safavi-Naini, R., Canetti, R. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2012. LNCS, vol. 7417, pp. 643–662. Springer, Heidelberg (2012).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-32009-5 38
11. Dittmer, S., Ishai, Y., Ostrovsky, R.: Line-point zero knowledge and its applica-
tions. In: ITC 2021 (2021). Full version: https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/1446
12. Dittmer, S., Ishai, Y., Lu, S., Ostrovsky, R.: Authenticated garbling from simple
correlations. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2022)
13. Dodis, Y., Khanna, S.: Space-time tradeoﬀs for graph properties. In: Wiedermann,
J., van Emde Boas, P., Nielsen, M. (eds.) ICALP 1999. LNCS, vol. 1644, pp. 291–
300. Springer, Heidelberg (1999). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48523-6 26
14. Ishai, Y., Kushilevitz, E., Ostrovsky, R., Prabhakaran, M., Sahai, A.: Eﬃcient
non-interactive secure computation. In: Paterson, K.G. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2011.
LNCS, vol. 6632, pp. 406–425. Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-642-20465-4 23
15. Katz, J., Ranellucci, S., Rosulek, M., Wang, X.: Optimizing authenticated garbling
for faster secure two-party computation. In: Shacham, H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2018, Part III. LNCS, vol. 10993, pp. 365–391. Springer, Cham (2018).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-96878-0 13
16. Lindell, Y., Pinkas, B.: An eﬃcient protocol for secure two-party computation
in the presence of malicious adversaries. In: Naor, M. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2007.
LNCS, vol. 4515, pp. 52–78. Springer, Heidelberg (2007). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-540-72540-4 4
17. Mohassel, P., Franklin, M.: Eﬃciency tradeoﬀs for malicious two-party com-
putation. In: Yung, M., Dodis, Y., Kiayias, A., Malkin, T. (eds.) PKC 2006.
LNCS, vol. 3958, pp. 458–473. Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/10.
1007/11745853 30

Authenticated Garbling from Simple Correlations
87
18. Rosulek, M., Roy, L.: Three halves make a whole? Beating the half-gates lower
bound for garbled circuits. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) CRYPTO 2021, Part
I. LNCS, vol. 12825, pp. 94–124. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-84242-0 5
19. Schoppmann, P., Gasc´on, A., Reichert, L., Raykova, M.: Distributed vector-OLE:
improved constructions and implementation. In: CCS 2019, pp. 1055–1072 (2019)
20. Tassa, T., Villar, J.L.: On proper secrets, (t, k)-bases and linear codes. Designs
Codes Cryptogr. 52(2), 129–154 (2009)
21. Wang, X., Ranellucci, S., Katz, J.: Authenticated garbling and eﬃcient maliciously
secure two-party computation. In: CCS 2017, pp. 21–37 (2017)
22. Yang, K., Sarkar, P., Weng, C., Wang, X.: Quicksilver: eﬃcient and aﬀordable
zero-knowledge proofs for circuits and polynomials over any ﬁeld. In: CCS (2021).
Full version: https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/076
23. Yang, K., Weng, C., Lan, X., Zhang, J., Wang, X.: Ferret: fast extension for cor-
related OT with small communication. In: CCS 2020, pp. 1607–1626 (2020)
24. Yao, A.C.-C.: How to generate and exchange secrets (extended abstract). In: FOCS,
pp. 162–167 (1986)
25. Zahur, S., Rosulek, M., Evans, D.: Two halves make a whole. In: Oswald, E.,
Fischlin, M. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2015, Part II. LNCS, vol. 9057, pp. 220–250.
Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-46803-6 8

