Block-Cipher-Based Tree Hashing
Aldo Gunsing(B)
Digital Security Group, Radboud University, Nijmegen, The Netherlands
aldo.gunsing@ru.nl
Abstract. First of all we take a thorough look at an error in a paper
by Daemen et al. (ToSC 2018) which looks at minimal requirements for
tree-based hashing based on multiple primitives, including block ciphers.
This reveals that the error is more fundamental than previously shown
by Gunsing et al. (ToSC 2020), which is mainly interested in its eﬀect on
the security bounds. It turns out that the cause for the error is due to an
essential oversight in the interaction between the diﬀerent oracles used
in the indiﬀerentiability proofs. In essence, it reduces the claim from the
normal indiﬀerentiability setting to the weaker sequential indiﬀerentia-
bility one. As a matter of fact, this error appeared in multiple earlier
indiﬀerentiability papers, including the optimal indiﬀerentiability of the
sum of permutations (EUROCRYPT 2018) and the recent ABR+ con-
struction (EUROCRYPT 2021). We discuss in detail how this oversight
is caused and how it can be avoided.
We next demonstrate how the negative eﬀects on the security bound of
the construction by Daemen et al. can be resolved. Instead of only allow-
ing a truncated output, we generalize the construction to allow for any
ﬁnalization function and investigate the security of this for ﬁve diﬀerent
types of ﬁnalization. Our ﬁndings, among others, show that the security
of the SHA-2 mode does not degrade if the feed-forward is dropped and
that the modern BLAKE3 construction is secure in principle but that its
use of the extendable output requires its counter used for random access
to be public. Finally, we introduce the tree sponge, a generalization of the
sequential sponge construction with parallel absorbing and squeezing.
Keywords: Hash Functions · Block Ciphers · Tree Hashing ·
Indiﬀerentiability
1
Introduction
1.1
Hash Functions
Hash functions, which are functions H : {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}n that compress an
arbitrarily-sized message M to a ﬁxed sized output h, form a fundamental part
of many cryptographic constructions. In practice they are not built directly,
but from a smaller compression function that only takes a ﬁxed sized input,
for example f : {0, 1}2n →{0, 1}n. A popular and simple method for this is the
Merkle-Damg˚ard construction [Mer89,Dam89], which uses a ﬁxed-sized compres-
sion function in a sequential manner to obtain the hash digest. This construction
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
Y. Dodis and T. Shrimpton (Eds.): CRYPTO 2022, LNCS 13510, pp. 205–233, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15985-5_8

206
A. Gunsing
is sometimes ‘strengthened’ by appending an encoding of the length of the mes-
sage to the end, giving a collision resistant hash function as long as the internal
compression function is collision resistant, a fact proven by Merkle and Damg˚ard
independently.
However, it turned out that collision resistance is not strong enough for some
situations. For example, strengthened Merkle-Damg˚ard is susceptible to another
attack, called the length extension attack: given the hash digest H(M) of a
message M and its length |M| it is possible to compute H(pad(M) ∥M ′) for
any M ′, without knowing the original message M. This is possible as the digest
H(M) leaks the internal state of the hash function when the blocks of pad(M)
are processed. By using this state as the initial value, it is straightforward to
compute H(pad(M) ∥M ′) for any M ′. This is especially troublesome when the
function is used in the keyed fashion as H(K ∥M), noting it should be possible
to build a MAC in this way, as the output of the hash should be unpredictable
when K is unknown. The attack above shows that this construction is insecure
when the hash function is instantiated with (strengthened) Merkle-Damg˚ard,
even when the internal compression function is secure. A remedy for this is the
HMAC construction [KBC97,Bel06], but this is less eﬃcient and unsatisfying.
This weakness asks for a more sophisticated security analysis for hash func-
tions, namely one that guarantees that the hash function behaves like a random
oracle, which gives an randomly generated and independent output for every
input. The most general security notion we have is the one of indiﬀerentiability
introduced by Maurer et al. [MRH04], which is further applied to hash functions
by Coron et al. [CDMP05].
1.2
Previous Work
Using this stronger security notion of indiﬀerentiability, multiple constructions
have been shown indiﬀerentiable. For example, preﬁx-free Merkle-Damg˚ard
[CDMP05,LGD+09,LLG11] and Merkle-Damg˚ard with truncation [CDMP05,
CN08,LGD+09,LLG11] have been shown indiﬀerentiable, all assuming that
the underlying compression function is an ideal compression function. How-
ever, this is a very strong and unrealistic assumption: most constructions
use a block-cipher-based design with commonly the Davies-Meyer transforma-
tion [PGV93] on top. This transformation deﬁnes the compression function
f : {0, 1}κ × {0, 1}b →{0, 1}b as f(k, x) = Ek(x) ⊕x for a block cipher
E : {0, 1}κ × {0, 1}b →{0, 1}b. This transformation does make it hard to ﬁnd
collisions or an inverse, but it is not indiﬀerentiable from an ideal compression
function and has some undesirable properties. For example, the computation of
E−1
k (0b) = x for an arbitrary k ∈{0, 1}κ immediately gives a ﬁxed point x where
f(k, x) = Ek(x) ⊕x = 0b ⊕x = x, while ﬁnding such ﬁxed point is very diﬃ-
cult for an ideal compression function. This means that one cannot directly use
this compression function in a construction that expects an ideal compression
function; additional analysis is required. In short, we cannot use constructions
based on an ideal compression function to argue security of block-cipher-based
constructions.

Block-Cipher-Based Tree Hashing
207
There have been some constructions shown to be indiﬀerentiable from an
ideal compression function [Men13,LMN16,GBK16], but these are very complex
and ineﬃcient. There is some work that have dedicated analysis of block-cipher-
based constructions: for example, preﬁx-free Merkle-Damg˚ard with Davies-
Meyer [CLNY06,GLC08] or Merkle-Damg˚ard with Davies-Meyer with trunca-
tion [GLC08], etc. Another approach for creating a hash function is by processing
the message in parallel by using a tree hash, a direction looked at by for exam-
ple Dodis et al. [DRRS09], where an ideal compression function is used as a
primitive. They also show that one can use a truncated permutation to create
a compression function that is indiﬀerentiable from a random function, which is
later improved upon [CLL19], however, this gives an unoptimized construction
and inferior security bounds as the abstraction to an ideal compression function
requires extra overhead.
The most promising work for this approach was by Daemen et al. [DMA18]
who looked at general tree hashing based on, among others, block ciphers. This
paper deﬁned very general properties that a tree hash should satisfy in order
to be indiﬀerentiable from a random oracle. Importantly, it supposedly proved
that truncation nor a feed-forward is not one of the required properties. However,
Samuel Neves pointed out a critical error in the paper indicating that truncation
should be required, which was also the formal ﬁx used in the errata by Gunsing
et al. [GDM20]. This still leaves us with an unsatisfactory situation as truncation
is not always a desirable option when the size of the block cipher is small.
1.3
Our Contribution
1.3.1
Identiﬁcation of the Flaw
In Sect. 3 we will discuss the nature of the error in more depth. It turns out
that there is more to the error than the superﬁcial correction of the bound
in [GDM20] indicates. The original paper implicitly ignores some fundamental
interaction between the primitive and construction oracles that appear in the
deﬁnition of indiﬀerentiability as they, after a transformation, incorrectly discard
all queries made to the construction oracle. This can only be done when the
construction queries are made after the primitive ones. In essence, one could
reinterpret the proof to happen in the weaker sequential indiﬀerentiability setting
[MPS12] where all primitive queries happen before the construction queries,
making this reasoning valid. The same reasoning error occurs in other papers
as well [CN08,MPN10,MP15,Lee17,BN18,ABR21]. One [CN08] is about hash
functions as well, but it does not make use of any invalid properties, which
means that the bounds are not inﬂuenced at all and that the proof could be
ﬁxed in a straightforward manner. Most other ones [MPN10,MP15,Lee17,BN18]
are about the indiﬀerentiability of the sum of permutations and are all based
on [MPN10] which contains the same error and the other papers copy the same
faulty reasoning. At least the proof of the most recent work [BN18], claiming
optimal indiﬀerentiability of the sum of permutations, is signiﬁcantly impacted.
More recent work with the ABR+ construction [ABR21] also contains the same
error, although it should not inﬂuence its result.

208
A. Gunsing
1.3.2
Block-Cipher-Based Tree Hashing with General Finalization
We improve the state of the art by generalizing the the construction of Daemen
et al. [DMA18], which only considers a truncated output. We generalize the
construction to allow for any ﬁnalization function and analyze the security of
this for ﬁve diﬀerent types of ﬁnalization. These constructions and their security
properties are summarized in Table 1. Section 4 contains the full security bounds.
Normal Truncation. First of all we re-prove the same construction as in [DMA18]
but with more care where we take the error into account. This proves that the
original properties are indeed suﬃcient when truncation is properly account for,
as is also shown in the ﬁxed version. Additionally, we generalize some properties
slightly, allowing for a more ﬂexible length of the initial value and digest size.
Truncation Without Subtree-Freeness. The most natural way to prevent the
length extension attack is by requiring subtree-freeness, where the result of a
hash can never be part of another hash. However, in order to prevent this situ-
ation, the mode has to use extra bits to mark, for example, the ﬁnal node. This
introduces extra overhead compared to a simpler mode. A diﬀerent solution is
to require more truncation, which was already done previously for the Merkle-
Damg˚ard mode speciﬁcally. We generalize this solution to tree hashes. It turns
out that one can drop the subtree-freeness property by truncating to an even
smaller digest, where the exact cost depends on the speciﬁc mode. In Sect. 5.1
we use this to prove the security of the mode used in truncated SHA-2 [SHA08],
without requiring any feed-forward. This is a signiﬁcant eﬃciency improvement,
as SHA-2 uses a feed-forward in every compression call.
Chopping. Thirdly we look at chopping instead of truncating. Truncation keeps
the ﬁrst few bits of a string and drops the other bits, while chopping does the
inverse: it drops the ﬁrst few bits and keeps the remaining ones. At a ﬁrst glance
this should not make a diﬀerence, as the operations are symmetrical. However,
as in our deﬁnition of tree hashes we assume that the chaining values are always
the result of truncated outputs, it turns out that chopping the ﬁnal value instead
of truncating gives a superior security bound. It essentially voids the stronger
requirement with respect to the digest size that the previous mode lost. In short,
by using chopping as the ﬁnalization instead of truncation, we can drop the
subtree-freeness requirement without compromising any security. In Sect. 5.3 we
introduce the tree sponge, a generalization of the sponge construction allowing
for parallel absorbing and squeezing, making full use of this result.
Enveloped. Fourthly we look at a generalized enveloped mode. This mode uses
a ﬁxed value in the data path of the ﬁnal compression call, generalizing the
Enveloped Merkle-Damg˚ard construction [BR06]. Compared to normal Merkle-
Damg˚ard this switches the position of the chaining value from the data input to
the key input. This simple change allows for a secure mode that does not require
much overhead. We show that this approach generalizes from the sequential
Merkle-Damg˚ard mode to general tree-based hashes.

Block-Cipher-Based Tree Hashing
209
Feed-Forward. Fifthly we look at a feed-forward. We show that by having a
feed-forward in the ﬁnal compression call we do not need any truncation. The
conventional approach, which has also been adopted in SHA-2, is that all com-
pression calls use a feed-forward. However, we show that only the ﬁnal one is
required. More importantly, its use does not negate other conditions. For exam-
ple, subtree-freeness is still required, which is not satisﬁed in SHA-2 and trunca-
tion is still required. In Sect. 5.2 we use this to analyze the security of the mode
used in BLAKE3 [OANW20] when based on a block cipher. We show that the
mode is secure in principle, but there is a non-negligible factor in the complex-
ity of the simulator. As a consequence, the extendable output mode becomes
insecure when a secret value is used for its oﬀset.
Table 1. Summary of the indiﬀerentiability bounds. The conditions MD, LA, RD, SF
and FA stand for message-decodability, leaf-anchoring, radical-decodability, subtree-
freeness and ﬁnal-anchoring, respectively. The bits of security are with respect to the
number of primitive queries either direct or indirect, where constant and logarithmic
terms are ignored. b is the length of the data input of the block cipher, c ⩽b the
capacity of the chaining values, n ⩽b the digest length and m ⩽c the length of IV1
which is used for leaf-anchoring. For the ﬁnalization, x denotes the data input to the
ﬁnal block cipher call and y the output. The notations ⌊y⌋n and ⌈y⌉n denote truncation
and chopping respectively (i.e. x = ⌊x⌋n ∥⌈x⌉|x|−n for all n). Note that all chaining
values are truncated block cipher outputs, hence the asymmetry between truncation
and chopping. For the enveloped and feed-forward modes there is no truncation or
similar hence n = b. The proofs are in the full version [Gun22].
mode
MD+LA+RD
SF
FA
ﬁnalization
bits of security
truncation
✓
✓
—
⌊y⌋n
min(m, c/2, b −n)
✓
—
—
⌊y⌋n
min(m, c/2, c −n)
chopping
✓
—
—
⌈y⌉n
min(m, c/2, b −n)
enveloped
✓
✓
full
y
min(m, c/2)
feed-forward
✓
✓
partial
x ⊕y
min(m, c/2)
1.3.3
Comparison of the Variants
The diﬀerent modes above all come with diﬀerent trade-oﬀs:
– Truncation/Chopping is useful when the block length b is suﬃciently large.
This is often the case for permutations (which is simply the special case κ = 0)
or large block ciphers. The results show that chopping is basically superior
to truncation, when the chaining values are constructed using truncation.
If this is the other way around the same result holds by symmetry. The
important observation is that dropping a diﬀerent part of the output in the
ﬁnalization compared to the internal chaining values is superior to doing the

210
A. Gunsing
same operation twice. This is shown by the fact that an extra condition in
the form of subtree-freeness can be dropped, or that the eﬃciency can be
signiﬁcantly improved: the change in the security term from c −n to b −n
allows for a larger n with the same security level.
– If a large block size is not available, the enveloped mode is useful. This mode
does not have any extra security terms and can achieve b/2 bits of security.
The biggest disadvantage is that it requires one full extra block cipher call.
– The feed-forward mode is commonly used, but it does not reduce the
required conditions compared to the other ﬁnalizations. For example, radical-
decodability and subtree-freeness are still necessary. Its advantage compared
to the enveloped mode is that it only requires partial ﬁnal-anchoring, making
it possible to process a larger message block in the ﬁnal compression call,
increasing its eﬃciency slightly.
2
Preliminaries
2.1
Notation
Our setup is in the ideal model and we denote E : {0, 1}κ × {0, 1}b →{0, 1}b
for an ideal cipher with key length κ and block length b that is uniformly drawn
from the set of all such block ciphers. For a bit string x of size at least n bits, we
denote ⌊x⌋n for the ﬁrst n bits of x (truncation) and ⌈x⌉n for the last n bits of
x (chopping). Note that for any such x we have that x = ⌊x⌋n ∥⌈x⌉|x|−n, where
|x| denotes the length of a string x in bits and ·∥· concatenation. The uniform
random drawing of an element x from a ﬁnite set X is denoted by x
$←−X. We
denote n ⩽b for the digest length, c ⩽b for the capacity, which is the size of
the chaining values, and m ⩽c for the length of IV1 which will be used for
leaf-anchoring.
2.2
Tree Hashing
We follow the same tree hashing paradigm as in [DMA18], but specialized for
block ciphers and with some small generalizations.
For our deﬁnition we use an explicit intermediate step of template generation
in order to be able to reason about the hashing mode. It will consist of three
steps: template construction, template execution and a ﬁnalization.
A block-cipher-based tree hashing mode T = (Z, ζ) consists of a template
generating function Z : N × A →X and a ﬁnalization function ζ : {0, 1}b ×
{0, 1}b →{0, 1}n. Here, A is a set of parameters chosen by the mode and X is
the set consisting of all possible templates and is independent of the mode. The
resulting hash function HT [E] : {0, 1}∗×A →{0, 1}n is based on an ideal cipher
E and computes the hash digest of a message M ∈{0, 1}∗with parameters
A ∈A in multiple steps:
– First it computes the tree template Z = Z(|M|, A) based on the message
length |M| and the parameters A. This step is elaborated on in Sect. 2.2.1.

Block-Cipher-Based Tree Hashing
211
– Then it executes the template based on an ideal cipher E to get the in- and
output of the ﬁnal node (x, y) = Y[E](M, Z), with Y[E] : {0, 1}∗× X →
{0, 1}b × {0, 1}b. This function is the same for all modes and is elaborated on
in Sect. 2.2.2.
– As the last step it applies the ﬁnalization function ζ to the in- and output to
get the digest h = ζx(y). If the input x is not used we simply write ζ(y). This is
a generalization compared to [DMA18], where only ζ(y) = ⌊y⌋n is considered.
The major alternative is the feed-forward deﬁned as ζx(y) = x ⊕y. It has to
be possible to randomly compute an inverse given some input x and digest h
as y
$←−ζ−1
x (h).
2.2.1
Template Construction
Based on the message length μ ∈N and the parameters A ∈A a tree template
is constructed. The template consists of a number of block cipher calls called
nodes, where the inputs of the block ciphers are already determined as virtual
bits. These come in three ﬂavors:
– Frame bits: these are ﬁxed bits that are determined solely on the message
length μ and the parameters A. For example, these can be used for domain
separation or can encode the length of the message.
– Message pointer bits: these bits reference speciﬁc bits in M. For example, a
bit can reference the ‘ﬁfth bit of M’, but this bit is currently unknown.
– Chaining pointer bits: these bits refer to the result of another compression
call. We require that all ﬁrst c bits of every compression call are used exactly
once (except the ﬁnal one which is special) and consecutively, where c ⩽b is
the capacity. For example, if c consecutive bits refer to the result of (k, x) it
will equal ⌊Ek(x)⌋c when instantiated.
There is one special block cipher call whose output is not used in the tree. This
is called the ﬁnal node and is denoted by ﬁnal(S) for an instantiation S. A leaf
node is a node that does not contain any chaining pointer bits.
E
E
E
E
E
IV1
M0−2 ∥0
M3−5 ∥0
IV1
M6∥10 ∥0
|M| ∥0
1
y
Fig. 1. Basic example of a block-cipher-based tree hashing mode with key size κ = 4,
block size b = 3, capacity c = 3 and message length μ = 7.

212
A. Gunsing
A basic example of a block-cipher-based tree hash is displayed in Fig. 1. The
diﬀerent kind of virtual bits in the example are:
– Frame bits: the two IV1’s, the 10 (padding), the four 0’s, the 1 and the
encoding of the message length |M|.
– Message pointer bits: the three blocks of M0−2, M3−5 and M6.
– Chaining pointer bits: the four outputs of a call to E that are fed into another
block cipher call.
Note that the output of the ﬁnal node is denoted by y, which is not necessarily
the hash digest; there is an additional ﬁnalization function ζ applied to get the
hash digest. In other words, h = ζx(y), with h the hash digest and x and y the
in- and outputs of the ﬁnal node. Furthermore, it is possible to have a capacity
c < b, in which case the chaining values are truncated.
2.2.2
Template Execution
The procedure Y[E](M, Z) executes the tree template Z on a message M with
compatible length to get the hash digest h ∈{0, 1}n. It uses the following
procedure:
– It instantiates the template to get the corresponding tree S. This means that
all message pointer bits are instantiated with their respective value of M
and similarly for all chaining pointer bits, whose values depend on the block
cipher E.
– It gets the inputs of the ﬁnal node (k, x) = ﬁnal(S).
– It computes the output of the ﬁnal node y = Ek(x).
– It returns the data input and output of the ﬁnal node (x, y).
The tree S is represented as a list composed of values of the form (k, x, α), each
representing one node. k and x are the key and data inputs to the block cipher
and α denotes a diﬀerent location in the tree. This value means that there is a
block cipher call of the form y = Ek(x) and that the output ⌊y⌋c is used in the
position α. The output of the ﬁnal node is not used in the tree, which is denoted
by α = ⊥. An example is displayed in Table 2.
2.2.3
Deﬁnitions
Now we deﬁne a few terms that allow us to reason about hashing modes. First of
all we deﬁne the tree template set ZT as the set of all possible tree templates.
Deﬁnition 1 (tree template set [DMA18,BDPV14]). For a mode of opera-
tion T we deﬁne tree template set ZT ⊆X as the range of the template con-
struction function Z:
ZT = {Z(μ, A)|μ ∈N, A ∈A} ,
where μ covers all message lengths and A all parameters.
Next, we deﬁne some useful subsets of trees that correspond to the tree templates.

Block-Cipher-Based Tree Hashing
213
Table 2. List representation of the example mode displayed in Fig. 1. The nodes are
numbered 0 to 4, with the key input denoted by 0k
0 and data input denoted by 0x
0 (for
node 0), where the subscript denotes the oﬀset. The k, x and α denote the key input,
the data input and the location the output is used (⊥for the ﬁnal node), respectively.
node
k
x
α
0
10−2 ∥1
20
⊥
1
M3−5 ∥0
30
0k
0
2
|M| ∥0
40
0x
0
3
M0−2 ∥0
IV1
1x
0
4
M6∥01 ∥0
IV1
2x
0
(a) List representation of the template
of the example mode.
node
k
x
α
0
1101
101
⊥
1
0010
100
0k
0
2
1110
010
0x
0
3
0110
000
1x
0
4
1010
000
2x
0
(b) List representation of the instanti-
ation of the example mode, with IV1 =
000, M = 011 001 1 and random block
cipher outputs.
Deﬁnition 2 ((sub)tree set [DMA18,BDPV14]). We say that a tree S com-
plies with a template Z if it has the same tree topology and the frame bits in Z
match those in S.
For a mode of operation T we deﬁne the following sets:
– ST is the set of all trees S such that there exists a Z ∈ZT such that S
complies with Z.
– Ssub
T
is the set of trees S such that there exists a S′ ∈ST such that S is a
proper subtree of S′.
– Sleaf
T
is the subset of trees S ∈Ssub
T
such that there exists a S′ ∈ST such that
S is a proper subtree of S′ and S contains all its descendants in S′.
– Sﬁnal
T
is the subset of trees S ∈Ssub
T
such that there exists a S′ ∈ST such
that S is a proper subtree of S′ and S contains the root node of S′.
Intuitively, ST denotes the set of all possible trees, Ssub
T
the set of all their proper
subtrees, Sleaf
T
the set of trees that cannot be extended backwards, i.e. ones that
contain all necessary leafs and Sﬁnal
T
the set of proper subtrees that contain the
ﬁnal node. Now we deﬁne the notion of a radical, which is an essential part of
our requirements. Intuitively, a radical identiﬁes bit positions which can only
refer to a chaining value, but has no such value associated yet.
Deﬁnition 3 (radical [DMA18]). A radical α in a tree instance S ∈Ssub
T
identiﬁes c bit positions such that no node is attached to α in S, but in any
S′ ∈ST , with S a subtree of S′, the value located by α is a chaining value (CV).
This value is called the radical CV and is denoted as S[α].
For example, take a Merkle-Damg˚ard mode with the domain separation on the
leaf node. That is, all templates are of the form displayed in Fig. 2. Given just
the ﬁnal two nodes (which is 0 : (1, M4∥0, ⊥); 1 : (x, M3∥0, 0x) in the list

214
A. Gunsing
representation) with arbitrary M3, M4 and data input x for the node with key
M3∥0, this x will always be a chaining value. Only for leaf nodes the data input
is not a chaining value, but we know that this is not a leaf node by the domain
separation. This means that this position (1x) is a radical.
E
E
M1
M2 ∥1
M3 ∥0
E
M4 ∥0
y
Fig. 2. A Merkle-Damg˚ard mode with leaf-node separation. This means that data
inputs are unambiguously either a chaining value or a message block, hence non-leaf
subtrees have radicals.
Another example is displayed in Fig. 3. This mode is similar, but with
domain separation on the ﬁnal node instead of the leaf node. However, this does
mean that the similar ﬁnal two nodes as before (which is 0 : (1, M4∥1, ⊥); 1 :
(x, M3∥0, 0x) in the list representation) with arbitrary M3, M4 and data input
x for the node with key M3∥0 do not have a radical. The data input x could be
a chaining value, but it could also represent a message block, in which case the
message would be x∥M3∥M4. As the role of this x is ambiguous its position (1x)
is not a radical, nor is any other position.
E
E
M1
M2 ∥0
M3 ∥0
E
M4 ∥1
y
Fig. 3. A Merkle-Damg˚ard mode with ﬁnal-node separation. This means that data
inputs are ambiguous and no radicals exist.
2.2.4
Conditions
We look at the conditions that a tree hashing mode has to satisfy in order
to be secure. Message-decodability states that a message can be successfully
extracted from a full tree, leaf-anchoring requires the ﬁrst few bits of every node
to either denote a ﬁxed value or a chaining value and radical-decodability states
that the previously deﬁned radicals can eﬃciently be identiﬁed from chosen set
Srad
T
. In general, message-decodability is trivially satisﬁed and leaf-anchoring is
a straightforward property. Radical-decodability is a more tricky deﬁnition and
sometimes requires more work to show.

Block-Cipher-Based Tree Hashing
215
Deﬁnition 4 (message-decodability [DMA18]). A mode of operation T is
message-decodable if there is an eﬃcient function extract() that on input of
S ∈ST returns the template Z it complies with and the message M, and on
input of S /∈ST returns ⊥.
Deﬁnition 5 (leaf-anchoring [DMA18]). A mode of operation T
is leaf-
anchored if for every template Z ∈ZT , the ﬁrst m ⩽c of every leaf node
encode IV1 ∈{0, 1}m as frame bits and the ﬁrst c bits of every non-leaf node are
chaining pointer bits.
Deﬁnition 5 is a minor generalization of the original deﬁnition in [DMA18] as it
allows for a more ﬂexible length of IV1.
Deﬁnition 6 (radical-decodability [DMA18]). A mode of operation T
is
radical-decodable if there exists a set Srad
T
such that all trees S ∈Srad
T
have a
radical, and there exists an eﬃcient deterministic function radical() that returns
a radical upon presentation of an S ∈Srad
T
, and ⊥otherwise. The set Srad
T
must
satisfy Sﬁnal
T
⊆Srad
T
⊆Ssub
T
\ Sleaf
T
.
In essence, radical-decodability requires the existence of an eﬃcient function
radical() that ﬁnds chaining values in a tree such that:
1. it only ﬁnds radicals (so they are chaining values in every possible tree),
2. it always reconstructs the full tree when starting at the ﬁnal node and extend-
ing the tree based on the found radicals.
Note that Sﬁnal
T
and Ssub
T
only contain proper subtrees, so if a full tree consists of
a single node, i.e. it hashes a message consisting of a single block, it is not part
of Sﬁnal
T
or Ssub
T
hence it should not be in Srad
T
as the tree is already complete.
As a ﬁrst example we take a Merkle-Damg˚ard mode with leaf-anchoring,
depicted in Fig. 4. We take Srad
T
= Ssub
T
\ Sleaf
T
, the largest possible set. This
means that we have to identify a radical for any subtree that is not in Sleaf
T
.
We do this by identifying radicals by the absence of IV1. Our function radical()
works as follows: ﬁrst we identify the leftmost node (which exists as it is a
sequential mode), then we return its data input if it is not equal to IV1 and
return ⊥otherwise. An implementation of radical() is illustrated in Algorithm 2.
We check the two requirements for radical-decodability.
1. Radicals: indeed, by deﬁnition of the mode any data input that is not IV1
has to be a chaining value.
2. Reconstruction: strictly speaking, it does not satisfy this property. If a chain-
ing value is equal to IV1 the function will stop too soon. However, this has a
negligible probability of occurring and in fact our proof already takes it into
account. This means that we can assume that no chaining value hits IV1,
hence our function will always reconstruct the message.
An implementation of extract() is also illustrated in Algorithm 3. It is similar
to the procedure radical(), but it extracts the message instead of the radicals.

216
A. Gunsing
E
E
IV1
M1
M2
E
M3
y
Fig. 4. A Merkle-Damg˚ard mode with leaf-anchoring. Radical-decodability can be
achieved by identifying radicals by the absence of IV1 in the data input.
Algorithm 1. Helper function to lookup the node pointing to a location
Interface: lookup(S, α′)
for all i : (k, x, α) ∈S do
if α = α′ then
return i : (k, x, α)
end if
end for
return ⊥
As a second example we take a Merkle-Damg˚ard mode with ﬁnal-node sepa-
ration and length encoding, but without leaf anchoring, depicted in Fig. 5. This
means that we cannot identify radicals by the absence of IV1 anymore. However,
we can make use of the other properties. We take Srad
T
= Sﬁnal
T
, the smallest pos-
sible set. This means that we only have to identify a radical for any subtree that
contains the ﬁnal node. As we have ﬁnal-node separation we can identify this.
If the given tree does not contain a ﬁnal node, we always return ⊥as we do
not know how long the message is, which is allowed by the deﬁnition of radical-
decodability as those trees are not in Srad
T
. If a tree does contain a ﬁnal node we
can read the length of the message from it. Using this, we know the number of
block cipher calls, from which we can deduce whether the data input is a chaining
value or a message block, satisfying radical-decodability. An implementation of
radical() is illustrated in Algorithm 4. The procedure extract() is not illustrated
but is again very similar to radical(), but it extracts the message instead of the
radicals.
E
E
M1
M2 ∥0
M3 ∥0
E
2 ∥1
y
Fig. 5. A Merkle-Damg˚ard mode with ﬁnal-node separation and length encoding.
Radical-decodability can be achieved by identifying the ﬁnal node and using the length
to know when to stop extending the tree.

Block-Cipher-Based Tree Hashing
217
Algorithm 2. Implementation of radical() for the mode pictured in Figure 4
Interface: radical(S)
α′ ←⊥
▷initialize with the ﬁnal node
while lookup(S, α′) ̸= ⊥do
i : (k, x, α) ←lookup(S, α′)
▷lookup the chaining value
if x = IV1 then
▷apply leaf-anchoring
return ⊥
▷full tree
end if
α′ ←ix
0
▷the data input contains the next potential radical
end while
return α′
▷radical found
Algorithm 3. Implementation of extract() for the mode pictured in Figure 4
Interface: extract(S)
M ′ ←ε
▷initialize with the empty string
α′ ←⊥
while lookup(S, α′) ̸= ⊥do
i : (k, x, α) ←lookup(S, α′)
M ′ ←k ∥M ′
▷the key input contains a message block
if x = IV1 then
return (M ′, ∅)
▷return the message and no parameters
end if
α′ ←ix
0
end while
return ⊥
Finally we may revisit the example in Fig. 3. We already noted that no rad-
icals exist for this mode, meaning that only Srad
T
= ∅is possible. However, this
contradicts the requirement that Sﬁnal
T
⊆Srad
T
, hence this construction is not
radical-decodable.
Now we deﬁne subtree-freeness, which is a generalization of the problem in
length-extension attacks and states that a full tree can never be a subtree of a
diﬀerent tree.
Deﬁnition 7 (subtree-freeness [DMA18]). A mode of operation T is subtree-
free if
ST ∩Ssub
T
= ∅.
Next, we introduce some new conditions not present in [DMA18]. These are
about full and partial ﬁnal-anchoring. Full ﬁnal-anchoring states that the full
input of the ﬁnal node should contain a ﬁxed value, while partial ﬁnal-anchoring
additionally allows for a single chaining value to be present.
Deﬁnition 8 (full ﬁnal-anchoring). A mode of operation T
that is leaf-
anchored is fully ﬁnal-anchored if for every template Z ∈ZT the ﬁrst b bits
of the ﬁnal node encode IV2 ∈{0, 1}b as frame bits.

218
A. Gunsing
Algorithm 4. Implementation of radical() for the mode pictured in Figure 5
Interface: radical(S)
i : (k, x, α) ←lookup(S, ⊥)
ℓ∥s ←k
▷with |s| = 1
if s = 0 then
return ⊥
▷fail if it is not a ﬁnal node
end if
α′ ←ix
0
for j ←0 to ℓdo
▷process ℓblocks based on the length encoding
if lookup(S, α′) = ⊥then
return α′
end if
i : (k, x, α) ←lookup(S, α′)
α′ ←ix
0
end for
return ⊥
Strictly speaking, a mode cannot satisfy both leaf-anchoring and full ﬁnal-
anchoring as the deﬁnitions conﬂict on the ﬁrst c bits of the ﬁnal node. Leaf-
anchoring requires these bits to be chaining pointer bits, while full ﬁnal-anchoring
requires them to encode IV2. However, in our deﬁnition, we make an exception for
this: the requirement of full ﬁnal-anchoring overwrites the one of leaf-anchoring
for the ﬁnal node.
The ﬁnal block cipher call of a mode with full ﬁnal-anchoring will always
look like the example in Fig. 6.
E
IV2
y
E
M2
E
M1
IV1
Fig. 6. Example mode using full ﬁnal-anchoring.
Deﬁnition 9 (partial ﬁnal-anchoring). A mode of operation T that is leaf-
anchored is partially ﬁnal-anchored if for every template Z ∈ZT the following
holds for the ﬁnal node:
– When it is a leaf node, it encodes IV′
1 as frame bits, where IV′
1 ∈{0, 1}b with
⌊IV′
1⌋m = IV1.
– When it is a non-leaf node, the ﬁrst c bits are chaining pointer bits and its
last b −c bits encode IV2 ∈{0, 1}b−c as frame bits.

Block-Cipher-Based Tree Hashing
219
There may be P diﬀerent possibilities for IV2, denoted by the set IV2.
An example of a mode using partial ﬁnal-anchoring is depicted in Fig. 7.
E
M2
y
E
M1
IV1
IV2
Fig. 7. Example mode using partial ﬁnal-anchoring.
2.3
Indiﬀerentiability
We use the indiﬀerentiability framework introduced by Maurer et al. [MRH04]
applied to hash functions by Coron et al. [CDMP05].
Deﬁnition 10. Let T = (Z, ζ) be a hashing mode, with template generating
function Z : N × A →X and ﬁnalization function ζ : {0, 1}b × {0, 1}b →
{0, 1}n, based on an ideal cipher E : {0, 1}κ × {0, 1}b →{0, 1}b and let Y[E] :
{0, 1}∗× X →{0, 1}b × {0, 1}b be the template execution function as described
in Sect. 2.2.2. Let RO be a random oracle with the same domain and range as
ζ ◦Y[E] and S be a simulator with oracle access to RO. The indiﬀerentiability
advantage of a distinguisher D is deﬁned as
Advdiﬀ
T [E],S(D) =
P

Dζ◦Y[E],E,E−1 = 1

−P

DRO,S[RO],S−1[RO] = 1
 ,
where D can only make construction queries (M, Z) such that Z = Z(|M|, A)
for some A ∈A.
2.4
Elementary Results
Our proof will rely on the H-coeﬃcient technique introduced by Patarin [Pat08]
and modernized by Chen and Steinberger [CS14]. Let D be a information-
theoretic deterministic distinguisher trying to distinguish O1 = (ζ ◦Y[E], E, E−1)
and O2 = (RO, S[RO], S−1[RO]). Let ν be the view of D after interacting with
either oracle, consisting of a list of all its queries made. Let DO1 denote the
probability distribution of views of D interacting with O1 and DO2 likewise for
O2. A view ν is attainable if it can be observed by D in the ideal world, i.e.
P [DO2] > 0. We deﬁne V as the set of all attainable views. The H-coeﬃcient
technique states the following for Advdiﬀ
T [E],S(D).
Lemma 1 (H-coeﬃcient
Technique
[Pat08,CS14]).
Let
O1
=
(ζ ◦
Y[E], E, E−1) and O2
= (RO, S[RO], S−1[RO]). Let D be a deterministic

220
A. Gunsing
distinguisher and V = Vgood ∪Vbad be a partition of the set of views into good
and bad views. Let ε ⩾0 be such that for all ν ∈Vgood:
P [DO1 = ν]
P [DO2 = ν] ⩾1 −ε.
Then Advdiﬀ
T [E],S(D) ⩽ε + P [DO2 ∈Vbad].
We will have to upper bound the probability of multi-collisions. We use the
following result based on Choi et al. [CLL19] for this.
Lemma 2. Suppose we have a sequence of s elements where every element is
randomly chosen from {0, 1}a and let Fx denote the number of elements that hit
the value x ∈{0, 1}a. Then we have that
E

max
x
Fx

⩽2s
2a + ln(s) + a + 1.
The proof is given in the full version [Gun22].
3
Errors
The faulty bounds in the original analysis in [DMA18] were superﬁcially cor-
rected in [GDM20]. Nevertheless, a more thorough investigation reveals that the
root cause is more fundamental and applies to many earlier indiﬀerentiability
proofs.
3.1
Description of the Flaw
The main error is that the calls to the random oracle from the simulator are
considered to be random. The output of the random oracle is indeed random.
However, as the distinguisher also has access to this random oracle, it might know
the output beforehand. Let us take a look at a simple example of this. Let D
be a distinguisher that makes the following queries, where T is the construction
oracle of a simple Merkle-Damg˚ard-like mode and E the primitive oracle, with
the message M consisting of one block:
– query T (M) = h,
– query Eh(IV1) = y,
– query EM(IV1) = h.
The ﬁnal output needs to be h, as this computes the hash of M.
As the simulator simulates E, the only queries that it sees are (h, IV1) with
output y and (M, IV1) with output h. Although this h comes from the random
oracle, its value is magically equal to the key input of the ﬁrst query, from the
simulator’s point of view.
When presented in this way, it may be obvious that the output of (M, IV1)
cannot be considered random as it is part of the fundamental interaction between

Block-Cipher-Based Tree Hashing
221
the oracles. However, it becomes more subtle when it is more abstractly pre-
sented and when some simpliﬁcations are made. It is very common to rep-
resent the queries to the oracle as two separate lists. In the above example
we would get the list M = ((M, h)) for the construction oracle and the list
L = ((h, IV1, y), (M, IV1, h)) for the primitive oracle. These lists contain dupli-
cate information, as from either (M, h) or (M, IV1, h) we can derive the fact that
the hash of the message M is equal to h. In order to simplify the analysis we
might be tempted to drop one of these queries. For example, we might drop all
queries from M which can be derived from L. In this case this means that M
becomes empty and we would only have to consider L = ((h, IV1, y), (M, IV1, h)).
However, this is a faulty reasoning as the output of (M, IV1) is always h and
cannot be considered to be randomly generated.
3.2
Occurrence in Other Works
Besides [DMA18], where the error had a signiﬁcant inﬂuence on the proven
security bound, the same error appeared in multiple other papers as well [CN08,
MPN10,MP15,Lee17,BN18,ABR21].
– In [CN08], the authors use the following reasoning in the Section ‘Some Impor-
tant Observations’:
“Thus, we assume that A do not make any O1-query which is computable
from the previous query-responses of O2. More particularly, we can remove
all those O1-queries from the ﬁnal view which are computable from the query-
responses of O2.”
Here, A denotes the distinguisher, O1 the construction oracle and O2 the
primitive oracle. The ﬁrst sentence is correct, but the second one is not. The
error can be ﬁxed in a straightforward manner by not removing those queries
from the ﬁnal view. The probabilities have to be computed in a slightly dif-
ferent way, as some output will be known. However, as the only way these
known outputs are used is in upper bounding the probability of a mutlicolli-
sion, whose analysis remain exactly the same, this does not have any inﬂuence
on the bound.
– The same error appeared in work on the indiﬀerentiability of the sum of
permutations [MPN10,MP15,Lee17,BN18]. In the original paper [MPN10]
they apply a common transformation to the distinguisher D. The new distin-
guisher D′ is the same as D, but it additionally veriﬁes all the construction
queries. This transformation is ﬁne as it simpliﬁes some analysis, we use this
transformation as well. However, after this transformation they simply ignore
the queries to the random oracle, which is not correct. The other papers
[MP15,Lee17,BN18] are based on this and also copy the same error. As a
matter of fact [DMA18] copied the approach from them as well.
Looking at the most recent work with the best bound [BN18], the error does
have a signiﬁcant impact on the proof. The primitive queries are viewed as
random variables, without taking possible construction queries into account.
These queries inﬂuence the distributions, which has a signiﬁcant eﬀect on the

222
A. Gunsing
proof as these distributions are used in the χ2-technique. This does not mean
that the bound is necessarily incorrect, but the proof has to be signiﬁcantly
changed.
– The same error appeared in recent work of Andreeva et al. [ABR21]. In Sect. 5
the authors show that their ABR+ mode is indiﬀerentiable. However, again,
after the common transformation to D′ at the start of Sect. 5.3 the construc-
tion queries are incorrectly ignored. Nevertheless, in this case the error should
not have an impact on the result. As the construction is ﬁxed-length and uses
a diﬀerent random function (not permutation) in all locations, including the
ﬁnal one, the knowledge of the construction results will be independent and
not inﬂuence other parts. In short, although the paper makes the same com-
mon error, the result should still be correct because of the speciﬁcs of the
construction.
3.3
Possible Cause and Resolution
A possible cause for the error can be from the notations of the views. It is
convenient to denote the interaction of the construction and primitive oracles
separately. However, this notation can be misleading. It implies that the inter-
action between the two diﬀerent oracles is somewhat disconnected, while this is
not the case. The common error of dropping all the queries to the construction
oracles is basically equivalent to changing the security model. Instead of always
having access to both oracles, the adversary instead operates in two phases: ﬁrst
it is only allowed access to the primitive oracle and after it is done with this
oracle, it is allowed to only query the construction oracle. This exact model
does actually exist as sequential indiﬀerentiability [MPS12]. In this setting the
previously faulty transformation is valid, meaning that any proofs using it can
be reinterpreted as occurring in the weaker sequential indiﬀerentiability model,
making them still proving a positive, but signiﬁcantly weaker, result.
A way to prevent the faulty reasoning is to denote the view in one list. In
our example we would denote the view as ν = ((M, h), (h, IV1, y), (M, IV1, h)),
where the ﬁnal h contains no randomness. This can complicate the analysis,
depending on the used mode. It can be easier to use this reasoning when there
is truncation involved, as that means that there is still some randomness in the
query that can be used. For example, the work [CLL19] does do this correctly:
they denote the view as a single list and also have a mode using truncation.
4
Results
For all results stated below we consider a tree hashing mode based on a b-bit
block cipher and with capacity c denoting the size of the chaining values. These
results are also summarized in Table 1.
Theorem 1. Let T be a mode that is subtree-free, radical-decodable, message-
decodable, leaf-anchored with IV1-length m and has ﬁnalization function

Block-Cipher-Based Tree Hashing
223
ζ(y) = ⌊y⌋n. Then there exists a simulator S such that for any distinguisher
D that makes q queries total and r queries to the construction oracle we have
Advdiﬀ
T [E],S(D) ⩽q
2m + q2
2c + q2 + 2qr
2b
+ (ln(r) + n + 1)q
2b−n
.
The simulator S makes at most q queries to the random oracle.
Theorem 2. Let T be a mode that is radical-decodable, message-decodable, leaf-
anchored with IV1-length m and has ﬁnalization function ζ(y) = ⌊y⌋n. Then
there exists a simulator S such that for any distinguisher D that makes q queries
total and r queries to the construction oracle we have
Advdiﬀ
T [E],S(D) ⩽q + r
2m
+ q2 + 2qr
2c
+ q2 + 2qr
2b
+ (ln(r) + n + 1)

q
2c−n +
q
2b−n

.
The simulator S makes at most q queries to the random oracle.
Theorem 3. Let T be a mode that is radical-decodable, message-decodable, leaf-
anchored with IV1-length m and has ﬁnalization function ζ(y) = ⌈y⌉n. Then
there exists a simulator S such that for any distinguisher D that makes q queries
total and r queries to the construction oracle we either have
Advdiﬀ
T [E],S(D) ⩽q
2m + q2
2c +
q2
2b−n ,
if b −n ⩾c, and
Advdiﬀ
T [E],S(D) ⩽q + r
2m
+ q2
2c + q2 + 2qr
2b
+ (2 ln(r) + 2n + 2)q
2b−n
otherwise. The simulator S makes at most q queries to the random oracle.
Theorem 4. Let T be a mode that is subtree-free, radical-decodable, message-
decodable, leaf-anchored with IV1-length m, fully ﬁnal-anchored and has ﬁnal-
ization function ζ(y) = y. Then there exists a simulator S such that for any
distinguisher D that makes q queries total and r queries to the construction
oracle we have
Advdiﬀ
T [E],S(D) ⩽q
2m + 3q2 + q
2c
+ 3q2 + 2qr
2b
.
The simulator S makes at most q queries to the random oracle.
Theorem 5. Let T be a mode that is subtree-free, radical-decodable, message-
decodable, leaf-anchored with IV1-length m, partially ﬁnal-anchored with P pos-
sibilities for IV2 and has ﬁnalization function ζx(y) = x ⊕y. Then there exists
a simulator S such that for any distinguisher D that makes q queries total and
r queries to the construction oracle we have
Advdiﬀ
T [E],S(D) ⩽q
2m + 3q2 + 4qr + 4r2 + 2r
2c
+ 3q2 + 2Pqr
2b
.
The simulator S makes at most Pq2 queries to the random oracle.
The proofs are given in the full version [Gun22].

224
A. Gunsing
5
Applications
5.1
Truncated SHA-2
SHA-2 [SHA08] uses a straightforward Merkle-Damg˚ard mode based on a block
cipher with the Davies-Meyer feed-forward on top of it. By using Theorem 2
we are able to prove this mode secure, without requiring any feed-forward. The
mode is illustrated in Fig. 8.
E
M3
h
E
E
M1
M2
IV1
Fig. 8. Illustration of the Merkle-Damg˚ard mode used in SHA-2, but without any
feed-forward.
We show that this mode satisﬁes the required conditions. First of all, it is
message-decodable as the message can be retrieved from the tree and it is also
leaf-anchored by deﬁnition. For radical decodability we take Srad
T
= Ssub
T
\ Sleaf
T
as the largest possible set and identify radicals by the absence of the IV1. This
means that we can apply Theorem 2 with m = c = b ∈{256, 512} the internal
state size and n ∈{224, 256, 384, 512} (the latter two only for b = 512) the
digest length. If n is close to b this gives an insecure bound, as then the mode is
vulnerable to a length extension attack.
5.2
BLAKE3
BLAKE3 [OANW20] is a recently introduced tree hash that makes full use of
the parallelism that it provides. We will not describe the hashing mode in detail,
but we show that with our results we can analyze the security of the mode of
operation of BLAKE3. The BLAKE3 paper cites the article by Daemen et al.
[DMA18] in the security analysis and show that it satisﬁes the required condi-
tions. This works for the truncated version, but a full-length output version is
also used. For this they informally state that the feed-forward is suﬃcient for
this. Using our Theorem 5 we are able to show that this informal reasoning is
not completely correct, as the extendable output mode introduces new security
considerations.
We succinctly describe what the ﬁnal compression call looks like, as that
one is relevant for the applicability of the feed-forward and the partial ﬁnal-
anchoring. The data input to the ﬁnal call is of the for form CV∥IV2∥t∥b∥d with
key a message M ∈{0, 1}512, where CV ∈{0, 1}256 is the chaining value (or
the initial value, if the block consists of one block), IV2 ∈{0, 1}128 a ﬁxed value
used for every compression call, t ∈{0, 1}64 a counter for extendable output,

Block-Cipher-Based Tree Hashing
225
b ∈{0, 1}32 the number of bytes in the message M and d ∈{0, 1}32 some
ﬂags. The output of the block cipher is VL∥VH = EM(CV∥IV2∥t∥b∥d), with
VL, VH ∈{0, 1}256. The ﬁnal digest is h = (VL ⊕VH) ∥(VH ⊕CV). This is also
illustrated in Fig. 9.
E
CV
IV2∥t∥b∥d
VL
VH
hL
hH
M
Fig. 9. Illustration of the ﬁnal compression call of BLAKE3.
5.2.1
Fixed Output
In the ﬁxed output mode of BLAKE3 the ﬁnal digest h is truncated to 256 bits,
which corresponds to VL ⊕VH, where VL∥VH is the output of the ﬁnal block
cipher call. This means that no feed-forward with the previous chaining value
is used. Although this ﬁnalization is diﬀerent from truncation, which would be
just VL, this diﬀerence is not essential and the result could be easily modiﬁed
for this ﬁnalization. Therefore, we do get an appropriate bound from Theorem 1
with b = 512, m = 256, c = 256 and n = 256.
5.2.2
Extendable Output
In addition to a ﬁxed output mode, BLAKE3 also introduces an extendable out-
put mode, allowing for an arbitrary number of output bits, similar to the sponge
construction [BDPV07]. In contrast to the sponge construction, which uses a
sequential output, BLAKE3 uses a counter for its extendable output. It behaves
similar to the generic construction where the counter is appended to the mes-
sage, which would result in the output H(M∥0) ∥H(M∥1) ∥H(M∥2) ∥. . . for
a generic hash function H. In contrast to this generic construction, the counter
is placed in the ﬁnal compression call, making computing successive outputs
much more eﬃcient, while still allowing eﬃcient random access in contrast to
the sponge. However, as we will see, this feature of allowing eﬃcient random
access comes with new security considerations which BLAKE3 does not adhere
fully.
For the extendable output mode the full output h = (VL ⊕VH) ∥(VH ⊕CV)
of the compression function is used. To get an arbitrary number of output bits
BLAKE3 uses a counter t that is part of the ﬁnal compression call. Let ht denote
the output with size b stated above when a counter t is used. Then the full output
is equal to h0∥h1∥h2∥. . ..
Our deﬁnition of a tree hashing mode does not directly include this extend-
able output, but it can be achieved by making use of the parameters. Recall

226
A. Gunsing
that the tree template does not only depend on the length of the message |M|,
but also on the parameters A which can be chosen freely from a custom deﬁned
set A. In this case we choose A = {0, 1, . . . , ℓ−1}, where ℓis the maximum
number of allowed output blocks, to represent the value of the counter t. This
means that the output can be computed by computing the hashes of (M, t) for all
relevant counters t. Note that deﬁnition allows for more freedom than a sequen-
tial construction as this t can start at any arbitrary oﬀset. This extra freedom
does correspond to the use of BLAKE3, as it indeed can eﬃciently compute the
output starting at any oﬀset.
As with the ﬁxed output, this ﬁnalization does not directly correspond to our
deﬁnition of the feed-forward. But, again, the proof only uses the randomness
of the chaining value, which is included, so the bound of Theorem 5 is still
applicable for this ﬁnalization.
A more signiﬁcant problem arises when we look at the other new requirement
for a secure mode that uses feed-forwarding. The mode should also satisfy partial
ﬁnal-anchoring, which means that there should be a limited number of possibil-
ities for the input of the ﬁnal compression call other than the chaining value. As
stated earlier, for BLAKE3 this consists of IV2∥t∥b∥d, where our main focus will
be t, which is the counter that underlies the extendable output. This t has ℓpos-
sible values, which is maximum number of allowed output blocks. As BLAKE3
allows for a maximum of 264 output bytes we get ℓ= 264/64 = 258, although
the counter can in principle be any 64-bit value. The values b and d both have
26 possibilities, hence partial ﬁnal-anchoring is satisﬁed with P = ℓ· 212, which
is typically dominated by ℓ.
This means that we can apply Theorem 5 to this mode with P = ℓ· 212,
b = 512, m = 256 and c = 256, with ℓ⩽258 the maximum number of output
blocks in the extendable output mode. Although P is quite large, this still gives
the expected security level as P · 2c ⩽2b. There is a downside to the large P,
though, as the simulator becomes quite ineﬃcient with its query complexity of
Pq2. This is actually reﬂected in some non-ideal behavior of BLAKE3 that we
describe next.
5.2.3
Computing the Counter
Suppose that a query of the form hL∥hH = h = H(M, t) is performed, where M is
the message and t the block oﬀset in the extendable mode, which corresponds to
the counter. Assume that M and h are known to an attacker, but t is not. Ideally,
the only way to retrieve t is to try all possible t′ ⩽ℓand check whether H(M, t′)
equals h. However, in the case of BLAKE3 this t can be retrieved much more eﬃ-
ciently. Recall that digest is deﬁned as (VL ⊕VH) ∥(VH ⊕CV), with VL∥VH the
output of the ﬁnal block cipher call. As M is known to the attacker, it can compute
CV. Furthermore, hL = VL ⊕VH and hH = VH ⊕CV are also known, so it can
compute VH = hH ⊕CV and VL = hL ⊕VH. This means that it can perform
the inverse of the ﬁnal block cipher call as E−1
m (VL∥VH) = CV∥IV2∥t∥b∥d, with
m the message input to the ﬁnal block, and retrieve t this way. This operation

Block-Cipher-Based Tree Hashing
227
costs just one query to E (and some to compute CV), which is signiﬁcantly less
than the expected ℓ, which can be as high as 258.
This problem can be illustrated by the following example. Suppose that
BLAKE3 is used as the following illustrative MAC. This MAC gets as input a key
K ∈{0, 1}128 and a message M ∈{0, 1}∗. It splits the key as K = K1∥K2 with
K1 ∈{0, 1}70 and K2 ∈{0, 1}58 and computes the MAC as H(M∥K1, t = K2).
For an ideal hash function this construction gives a secure MAC, as the oﬀset
can essentially be viewed as part of the input. However, when instantiated with
BLAKE3 this is not the case. Given h = H(M∥K1, t = K2) and M, but not K,
an adversary can compute K in roughly 270 queries, instead of the expected 2128.
This is done by ﬁrst guessing an arbitrary K1 ∈{0, 1}70. Then the adversary
can compute the oﬀset K2 from h and M∥K1 as described above. If the guess
of K1 is correct, this computes the value of K2 ∈{0, 1}58 using a single query,
performing a key-recovery attack. As there are 270 possible values for K1 this
attack succeeds using roughly 270 queries. Although BLAKE3 supports a dedi-
cated keyed mode that is preferred, the previous example should still be secure.
This shows that the counter in BLAKE3 can only contain public information.
5.2.4
Conclusion
BLAKE3 makes full use of tree hashing capabilities with an interesting way
of generating extendable output by making use of a counter. Although its tree
structure is secure, its use of a counter, which makes eﬃcient random access
possible, comes with new security considerations. In particular, from a usage
perspective it behaves similar to an extra small eﬃcient message input. However,
its security properties do not align with this behavior as the counter can be
eﬃciently computed by knowing the message and the hash output. This is not
the case for a normal message input, making BLAKE3 in essence add an extra
requirement in that the counter should always be public.
5.3
Tree Sponge
Here we introduce a tree generalization of the sponge construction [BDPV07].
The absorbing phase is generalized to have a tree structure, allowing for paral-
lel compression. Additionally, the squeezing phase is modiﬁed to likewise allow
for parallel expansion by making use of a counter. The construction requires a
minimal number of frame bits: the only ones present are initial values required
to prevent inverse queries from succeeding.
First of all we note that all our results also apply to permutations by simply
setting κ = 0. The tree sponge makes use of the ﬂexible conditions present
in Theorem 3. The main observation is that subtree-freeness can be dropped
without negative consequences when the chaining values and the hash digests
originate from diﬀerent parts of the output of the permutation. This is the same
as in the original sponge construction, which has an inner part that outputs
chaining values, which are secret, and an outer part that outputs hash digests,
which are public.

228
A. Gunsing
p
p
p
p
p
p
p
p
p
IV1
IV1
IV1
M1
M2
M3
M4
M5
IV1∥0
IV1∥1
h0
h1
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
absorbing
combining
squeezing
Fig. 10. Example of the minimal permutation-based tree hashing mode with w = 2
giving two blocks of output. The order in which the radicals are identiﬁed is indicated
by the gray numbers 1–11, starting from the ﬁnal permutation call resulting in h0.
Underlined numbers indicate a radical, while the other numbers indicate a diﬀerent
value: either a leaf or a counter value. The dashed permutation call resulting in h1 is
not part of the tree found by the radical ﬁnding algorithm.
5.3.1
Description
The tree sponge contains three diﬀerent phases and depends on a ﬁxed parameter
w ∈N>0 representing the width:
– Absorbing. In this phase the message is split such that every part can be
absorbed by a sponge of width w. The ﬁnal part may be smaller. All diﬀerent
parts are absorbed this way in parallel and each generate their own chaining
value.
– Combining. The chaining values generated in the previous phase are combined
by using a tree structure. The chaining values are split into two non-empty
parts, with the ﬁrst part the largest possible power of two. The two parts are
recursively reduced to a single chaining value and combined using a permu-
tation call.

Block-Cipher-Based Tree Hashing
229
Algorithm 5. Implementation of the tree sponge mode pictured in Figure 10
Interface: TreeSponge(M, t)
CV ←combine(M)
return ⌈p(CV ∥IV1 ∥t)⌉3b/4
Interface: combine(M)
W ←w · b/2 + b/4
▷maximum sequential absorption
if |M| ⩽W then
return absorb(M)
end if
k ←⌊log2(|M|/W)⌋
▷largest k such that W · 2k ⩽|M|
ML ∥MR ←M
▷with |ML| = W · 2k
CVL ←combine(ML)
CVR ←combine(MR)
return ⌊p(CVL ∥CVR)⌋b/2
Interface: absorb(M)
M0 ∥M1 ∥· · · ∥Mℓ−1 ←M
▷with |M0| = 3b/4 and |Mi| = b/2
x ←IV1 ∥M0
for i ←1 to ℓdo
x ←⌊p(x)⌋b/2 ∥Mi
end for
return ⌊p(x)⌋b/2
– Squeezing. The resulting chaining value is fed into multiple ﬁnal permutation
calls appended by IV1∥t, with t = 0, 1, . . . a counter for an arbitrary long
output.
An example of this mode is pictured in Fig. 10 and an implementation is illus-
trated in Algorithm 5.
5.3.2
Security
We show that this mode satisﬁes the required conditions. Again, message-
decodability and leaf-anchoring are satisﬁed in a straightforward way. Radical-
decodability is more interesting for this mode.
We take Srad
T
= Ssub
T
\ Sleaf
T
as the largest possible set and use leaf-anchoring
to identify most radicals. We identify leaf nodes by the occurrence of IV1, which
do not have any radical. If we do not ﬁnd a leaf node, we do not immediately
know whether the node has one or two chaining values. However, we only have
to ﬁnd one radical at a time and we know that the ﬁrst c bits will always point
to a chaining value. We continue this process for the topmost chaining value until
we hit a leaf node. Then we know that the ﬁrst w calls after the leaf node are
sequential and do not have any other chaining values. All the other nodes do have
a chaining value in the bottom halve and we recursively continue the process on
all those values. The only exception is the counter in the end, but we can recog-
nize this again by the presence of IV1. Furthermore, the fact that the ﬁnal mes-
sage block may have a width smaller than w does not matter as it is the ﬁnal

230
A. Gunsing
block the algorithm ﬁnds. An example of this process is pictured in Fig. 10 by the
gray numbers and an implementation is illustrated in Algorithm 6.
Algorithm 6. Implementation of radical() for the tree sponge mode pictured
in Figure 10
Interface: radical(S)
(α, depth) ←radical′(S, ⊥)
return α
Interface: radical′(S, α′)
if lookup(S, α′) = ⊥then
return (α′, ⊥)
end if
i : (k, x, α) ←lookup(S, α′)
if ⌊x⌋b/4 = IV1 then
return (⊥, 1)
▷end of path by leaf-anchoring
end if
α′ ←ix
0
(α′, depth) ←radical′(S, α′)
▷scan the top half for radicals
if α′ ̸= ⊥then
return (α′, ⊥)
end if
if depth ̸= ⊥∧depth < w then
return (⊥, depth + 1)
▷absorb phase
else
x1 ∥x2 ←x
▷with |x1| = |x2| = b/2
if ⌊x2⌋b/4 = IV1 then
return (⊥, ⊥)
▷squeeze phase
else
α′ ←ix
b/2
▷combine phase
return radical′(S, α′)
▷scan the bottom half for radicals
end if
end if
Given a permutation of size b we choose c = b/2 as we have a binary tree.
This leads to a security level of at most b/4, which is inherently the maximum
for a permutation-based tree hash. Given this security level we are additionally
able to choose m = b/4 and n = 3b/4 to optimize the eﬃciency while keeping
the same security level.
6
Proof Sketch
The full proof is given in the full version [Gun22], but the main ideas in it are
the following:

Block-Cipher-Based Tree Hashing
231
– The simulator uses radical-decodability to reconstruct the tree corresponding
to a (potential) message. Message-decodability is used to reconstruct the mes-
sage in order to be consistent with the random oracle. Otherwise randomly
generated values are used.
– Various bad events are deﬁned to make sure the following properties hold for
good views:
• The simulator is consistent with the random oracle.
• The simulator is consistent as a permutation, i.e. Sk(x1) = Sk(x2) implies
x1 = x2 and similar for the inverse.
The main goal of the bad events is to prevent various collisions and to prevent
inversions of the ﬁnal compression call. This last property was not handled
appropriate in [DMA18] and is solved by the various ﬁnalization functions:
• Truncation/Chopping: by throwing away part of the input the inverse
calls can only succeed by guessing the discarded bits, which is negligible
for suﬃcient truncation.
• Enveloped: as in the ﬁnal compression call the message related can only
be part of the key input, no information can be gained from an inverse
call. The output contains the data input, which is constant. Notably, the
inverse simulator has to modiﬁed to account for the possibility of making
an unorthodox query by computing the hash normally, except for the ﬁnal
call for which the inverse is used.
• Feed-forward: this case is similar to the enveloped case. A key diﬀerence
is that the ﬁnal inverse call does not necessarily correspond to a single
message, making the inverse simulator having to loop over all possibilities.
These bad events occur with negligible probability as all the values are ran-
domly generated. Most of the diﬃculty comes from identifying the faulty
queries. As the wrong simpliﬁcation discussed in Sect. 3 cannot be applied, it
becomes more tricky to identify the faulty queries, which become more varied.
This is especially true for the feed-forward mode as the inverse queries can
correspond to multiple messages.
Acknowledgments. Aldo Gunsing is supported by the Netherlands Organisation for
Scientiﬁc Research (NWO) under TOP grant TOP1.18.002 SCALAR.
References
[ABR21] Andreeva, E., Bhattacharyya, R., Roy, A.: Compactness of hashing modes
and eﬃciency beyond Merkle tree. In: Canteaut, A., Standaert, F.-X.
(eds.) EUROCRYPT 2021. LNCS, vol. 12697, pp. 92–123. Springer, Cham
(2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-77886-6 4
[BDPV07] Bertoni, G., Daemen, J., Peeters, M., Van Assche, G.: Sponge func-
tions. In: Ecrypt Hash Workshop (2007). http://sponge.noekeon.org/
SpongeFunctions.pdf

232
A. Gunsing
[BDPV14] Bertoni, G., Daemen, J., Peeters, M., Van Assche, G.: Suﬃcient conditions
for sound tree and sequential hashing modes. Int. J. Inf. Secur. 13(4), 335–
353 (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/s10207-013-0220-y
[Bel06] Bellare, M.: New proofs for NMAC and HMAC: security without collision-
resistance. In: Dwork, C. (ed.) CRYPTO 2006. LNCS, vol. 4117, pp. 602–
619. Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/10.1007/11818175 36
[BN18] Bhattacharya, S., Nandi, M.: Full indiﬀerentiable security of the Xor of
two or more random permutations using the χ2 method. In: Nielsen, J.B.,
Rijmen, V. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2018. LNCS, vol. 10820, pp. 387–412.
Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-78381-9 15
[BR06] Bellare, M., Ristenpart, T.: Multi-property-preserving hash domain exten-
sion and the EMD transform. In: Lai, X., Chen, K. (eds.) ASIACRYPT
2006. LNCS, vol. 4284, pp. 299–314. Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://
doi.org/10.1007/11935230 20
[CDMP05] Coron, J.-S., Dodis, Y., Malinaud, C., Puniya, P.: Merkle-Damg˚ard revis-
ited: how to construct a hash function. In: Shoup, V. (ed.) CRYPTO 2005.
LNCS, vol. 3621, pp. 430–448. Springer, Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.
org/10.1007/11535218 26
[CLL19] Choi, W., Lee, B., Lee, J.: Indiﬀerentiability of truncated random permu-
tations. In: Galbraith, S.D., Moriai, S. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2019. LNCS,
vol. 11921, pp. 175–195. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-34578-5 7
[CLNY06] Chang, D., Lee, S., Nandi, M., Yung, M.: Indiﬀerentiable security analysis
of popular hash functions with preﬁx-free padding. In: Lai, X., Chen, K.
(eds.) ASIACRYPT 2006. LNCS, vol. 4284, pp. 283–298. Springer, Heidel-
berg (2006). https://doi.org/10.1007/11935230 19
[CN08] Chang, D., Nandi, M.: Improved indiﬀerentiability security analysis of
chopMD hash function. In: Nyberg, K. (ed.) FSE 2008. LNCS, vol. 5086,
pp. 429–443. Springer, Heidelberg (2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
540-71039-4 27
[CS14] Chen, S., Steinberger, J.: Tight security bounds for key-alternating ciphers.
In: Nguyen, P.Q., Oswald, E. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2014. LNCS, vol. 8441,
pp. 327–350. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
642-55220-5 19
[Dam89] Damg˚ard, I.B.: A design principle for hash functions. In: Brassard, G. (ed.)
CRYPTO 1989. LNCS, vol. 435, pp. 416–427. Springer, New York (1990).
https://doi.org/10.1007/0-387-34805-0 39
[DMA18] Daemen, J., Mennink, B., Van Assche, G.: Sound hashing modes of arbi-
trary functions, permutations, and block ciphers. IACR Trans. Symmetric
Cryptol. 2018(4), 197–228 (2018)
[DRRS09] Dodis, Y., Reyzin, L., Rivest, R.L., Shen, E.: Indiﬀerentiability of
permutation-based compression functions and tree-based modes of opera-
tion, with applications to MD6. In: Dunkelman, O. (ed.) FSE 2009. LNCS,
vol. 5665, pp. 104–121. Springer, Heidelberg (2009). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-642-03317-9 7
[GBK16] Gauravaram, P., Bagheri, N., Knudsen, L.R.: Building indiﬀerentiable
compression functions from the PGV compression functions. Des. Codes
Crypt. 78(2), 547–581 (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/s10623-014-0020-z
[GDM20] Gunsing, A., Daemen, J., Mennink, B.: Errata to sound hashing modes of
arbitrary functions, permutations, and block ciphers. IACR Trans. Sym-
metric Cryptol. 2020(3), 362–366 (2020)

Block-Cipher-Based Tree Hashing
233
[GLC08] Gong, Z., Lai, X., Chen, K.: A synthetic indiﬀerentiability analysis of some
block-cipher-based hash functions. Des. Codes Cryptogr. 48(3), 293–305
(2008)
[Gun22] Gunsing,
A.:
Block-Cipher-Based
Tree
Hashing.
Cryptology
ePrint
Archive, Paper 2022/283 (2022). https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/283
[KBC97] Krawczyk, H., Bellare, M., Canetti, R.: HMAC: keyed-hashing for message
authentication. RFC 2104, 1–11 (1997)
[Lee17] Lee, J.: Indiﬀerentiability of the sum of random permutations toward opti-
mal security. IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 63(6), 4050–4054 (2017)
[LGD+09] Luo, Y., Gong, Z., Duan, M., Zhu, B., Lai, X.: Revisiting the Indiﬀeren-
tiability of PGV hash functions. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch. 2009, 265
(2009)
[LLG11] Luo, Y., Lai, X., Gong, Z.: Indiﬀerentiability of domain extension modes
for hash functions. In: Chen, L., Yung, M., Zhu, L. (eds.) INTRUST 2011.
LNCS, vol. 7222, pp. 138–155. Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-642-32298-3 10
[LMN16] Luykx, A., Mennink, B., Neves, S.: Security analysis of BLAKE2’s modes
of operation. IACR Trans. Symmetric Cryptol. 2016(1), 158–176 (2016)
[Men13] Mennink, B.: Indiﬀerentiability of double length compression functions.
In: Stam, M. (ed.) IMACC 2013. LNCS, vol. 8308, pp. 232–251. Springer,
Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-45239-0 14
[Mer89] Merkle, R.C.: One way hash functions and DES. In: Brassard, G. (ed.)
CRYPTO 1989. LNCS, vol. 435, pp. 428–446. Springer, New York (1990).
https://doi.org/10.1007/0-387-34805-0 40
[MP15] Mennink, B., Preneel, B.: On the XOR of multiple random permuta-
tions. In: Malkin, T., Kolesnikov, V., Lewko, A.B., Polychronakis, M.
(eds.) ACNS 2015. LNCS, vol. 9092, pp. 619–634. Springer, Cham (2015).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-28166-7 30
[MPN10] Mandal, A., Patarin, J., Nachef, V.: Indiﬀerentiability beyond the birth-
day bound for the Xor of two public random permutations. In: Gong,
G., Gupta, K.C. (eds.) INDOCRYPT 2010. LNCS, vol. 6498, pp. 69–81.
Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-17401-8 6
[MPS12] Mandal, A., Patarin, J., Seurin, Y.: On the Public Indiﬀerentiability and
correlation intractability of the 6-round feistel construction. In: Cramer,
R. (ed.) TCC 2012. LNCS, vol. 7194, pp. 285–302. Springer, Heidelberg
(2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-28914-9 16
[MRH04] Maurer, U., Renner, R., Holenstein, C.: Indiﬀerentiability, impossibility
results on reductions, and applications to the random oracle methodol-
ogy. In: Naor, M. (ed.) TCC 2004. LNCS, vol. 2951, pp. 21–39. Springer,
Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-24638-1 2
[OANW20] O’Connor, J., Aumasson, J.P., Neves, S., Wilcox-O’Hearn, Z.: BLAKE3.
https://blake3.io (2020)
[Pat08] Patarin, J.: The coeﬃcients H technique. In: Avanzi, R.M., Keliher, L.,
Sica, F. (eds.) SAC 2008. LNCS, vol. 5381, pp. 328–345. Springer, Heidel-
berg (2009). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-04159-4 21
[PGV93] Preneel, B., Govaerts, R., Vandewalle, J.: Hash functions based on block
ciphers: a synthetic approach. In: Stinson, D.R. (ed.) CRYPTO 1993.
LNCS, vol. 773, pp. 368–378. Springer, Heidelberg (1994). https://doi.
org/10.1007/3-540-48329-2 31
[SHA08] National Institute of Standards and Technology. Secure Hash Standard
(SHS). Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 180–3, Octo-
ber 2008

