Cheater Identiﬁcation on a Budget: MPC
with Identiﬁable Abort from Pairwise
MACs
Carsten Baum1(B), Nikolas Melissaris2, Rahul Rachuri3, and Peter Scholl2
1 Technical University of Denmark, Lyngby, Denmark
cabau@dtu.dk
2 Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark
{nikolas,peter.scholl}@cs.au.dk
3 Visa Research, Foster City, USA
srachuri@visa.com
Abstract. Cheater identiﬁcation in secure multi-party computation
(MPC) allows the honest parties to agree upon the identity of a cheating
party, in case the protocol aborts. In the context of a dishonest majority,
this becomes especially critical, as it serves to thwart denial-of-service
attacks and mitigate known impossibility results on ensuring fairness and
guaranteed output delivery.
In this work, we present a new, lightweight approach to achieving
identiﬁable abort in dishonest majority MPC. We avoid all of the heavy
machinery used in previous works, instead relying on a careful combina-
tion of lightweight detection mechanisms and techniques from state-of-
the-art protocols secure with (non-identiﬁable) abort.
At the core of our construction is a homomorphic, multi-receiver com-
mitment scheme secure with identiﬁable abort. This commitment scheme
can be constructed from cheap vector oblivious linear evaluation proto-
cols based on learning parity with noise. To support cheater identiﬁcation,
we design a general compilation technique, similar to a compiler of Ishai
et al. (Crypto 2014), but avoid its requirement for adaptive security of
the underlying protocol. Instead, we rely on a diﬀerent (and seemingly
easier to achieve) property we call online extractability, which may be of
independent interest. Our MPC protocol can be viewed as a version of the
BDOZ MPC scheme (Bendlin et al., Eurocrypt 2011) based on pairwise
information-theoretic MACs, enhanced to support cheater identiﬁcation
and a highly eﬃcient preprocessing phase, essentially as eﬃcient as the
non-identiﬁable protocol of Le Mans (Rachuri & Scholl, Crypto 2022).
1
Introduction
Secure multiparty computation (MPC) is a class of cryptographic protocols
allowing a group of distrusting parties to jointly compute a function over their
R. Rachuri—Work done while at Aarhus University.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2024
L. Reyzin and D. Stebila (Eds.): CRYPTO 2024, LNCS 14927, pp. 454–488, 2024.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-68397-8_14

Cheater Identiﬁcation on a Budget
455
private inputs, without revealing anything beyond the output of the computa-
tion. While many diﬀerent factors impact the usability of MPC protocols, one
of the most important security-wise is the corruption threshold. It provides a
limit on how many of the participants can collude and share their information,
without losing the privacy guarantees of MPC. Many popular protocols, such
as SPDZ [DPSZ12], BDOZ [BDOZ11] and their follow-up works ensure privacy,
even if n −1 out of the n participants are corrupted, and even when attackers
may actively deviate from the protocol.
Nevertheless, privacy is not the only security guarantee that an MPC protocol
may have to achieve. Fairness requires that if the corrupted parties obtain the
output, then so do the honest parties. It is known [Cle86] that in the dishonest
majority setting (i.e. when ≥n/2 parties are corrupted) we cannot achieve
fairness, or the even stronger notion of guaranteed output delivery. Therefore,
current highly eﬃcient protocols settle for a weaker notion of security: security
with abort. This typically means that a corrupt party can force the protocol to
abort, so that some (or all) of the honest parties will abort instead of learning
the correct output.1
Identiﬁable Abort for MPC. Since fairness is impossible in the dishonest
majority setting, the next best property would be if, in the case that the protocol
aborts, the honest parties agree that the protocol aborted and also agree on the
identity of at least one corrupt party. This can work as a deterrent since honest
parties can exclude said corrupt party if they restart the computation. This
property is called identiﬁable abort.
Cheater identiﬁcation in dishonest-majority MPC (ID-MPC) was ﬁrst for-
mally studied by Ishai, Ostrovsky and Seyalioglu [IOS12], who showed that it is
impossible to build unconditionally secure ID-MPC in a model with a broadcast
channel and any pairwise ideal functionality, such as oblivious transfer (OT).
This is in contrast to the secure-with-abort model, where pairwise OT suﬃces.
Later, Ishai, Ostrovsky and Zikas [IOZ14] constructed a compiler that takes any
semi-honest protocol that uses a source of correlated randomness, and transforms
it into a protocol with security against malicious parties and with identiﬁable
abort (in the correlated randomness model). The compiler can be seen as an
information-theoretic version of the GMW compiler [GMW87]: each party com-
mits to its input and randomness that they intend to use for the semi-honest
protocol and then runs the semi-honest protocol by broadcasting their messages
in each round and using zero-knowledge to prove that their messages are cor-
rect. To generate the correlated randomness needed for this protocol, [IOZ14]
also described a compiler that transforms any cryptographic preprocessing phase
that is secure-with-abort into one that has identiﬁable abort.2 Overall, this yields
the ﬁrst construction with identiﬁable abort that makes only black-box use of
1 This is called selective abort, in contrast to unanimous abort, where the honest parties
must all agree that the protocol aborted.
2 This result bypasses the impossibility of [IOS12] by relying on black-box use of an
OT protocol rather than an ideal OT functionality.

456
C. Baum et al.
cryptographic primitives, namely an adaptively secure oblivious transfer proto-
col and a broadcast channel. The main downsides of this construction are the
need for adaptively secure OT in the preprocessing phase, and the overall com-
plexity of proving that each protocol step was executed correctly in the online
phase.
To resolve this, multiple works [BOS16,SF16,CFY17,BOSS20] have given
more “practical” constructions of ID-MPC. Baum et al. [BOS16] construct an
identiﬁable abort protocol for arithmetic circuits in the preprocessing model
where the online phase is a variant of BDOZ [BDOZ11] that permits cheater
identiﬁcation. While avoiding adaptively secure OTs, their preprocessing phase
needs to perform at least n times as much computation as non-identiﬁable pro-
tocols, and also relies on cheater identiﬁcation for lattice-based cryptography
which is far from being practically eﬃcient. [SF16] modify the SPDZ protocol to
identify cheating by ensuring that correct shares are opened. Their preprocessing
would, in order to be identiﬁable, have to rely on the same expensive mechanisms
as [BOS16] (such as veriﬁable decryption). Cunningham et al. [CFY17] used Ped-
ersen commitments to identify cheaters in the online phase, which limits the ﬁnite
ﬁeld over which the computation can happen and makes preprocessing costly as
all these commitments have to be generated during preprocessing. Finally, Baum
et al. [BOSS20] construct an ID-MPC protocol for boolean circuits which runs
in a constant number of rounds and uses cryptographic primitives in a black box
away. While in their work, public key operations after the setup phase and zero
knowledge (ZK) machinery (as well as adaptive OTs) are avoided, their construc-
tion is limited to the binary setting and their use of multiparty BMR [BMR90]
has a substantial overhead from reconstructing a large garbled circuit.
Challenge of Adaptive Security and Identiﬁable Abort. When consid-
ering solely a preprocessing protocol, the [IOZ14] compiler oﬀers a simple and
attractive approach to obtaining identiﬁable abort. At a high level, their idea is
to have every party ﬁrst commit to a random tape, and then run a standard,
secure-with-abort protocol; if the protocol aborts, every party will open the com-
mitments to their random tapes. This allows all other parties to detect which
party cheated by re-running a local copy of the protocol. Furthermore, intuitively,
opening random tapes in case of abort does not pose a privacy issue, since the
preprocessing phase is independent of all parties’ inputs. What is needed for
this to work is that any deviation from the honest protocol can be consistently
detected by every party using the randomness that they committed to (called
P-veriﬁability in [IOZ14]).
The challenge with this approach lies in simulating the view of the corrupted
parties. If the protocol aborts, the simulator needs to be able to open the hon-
est parties’ random tapes to the adversary, in a way that is consistent with the
previous (simulated) transcript. One way to do this is if the preprocessing pro-
tocol is adaptively secure, so that honest random tapes can be ‘explained’ by
the simulator as if that party had just been adaptively corrupted. This is where
the reliance of [IOZ14] on adaptive OT comes from, and it seems inherent to

Cheater Identiﬁcation on a Budget
457
this commit-and-open paradigm3. While some works have attempted to circum-
vent the adaptivity problem [BDD20,BOSS20], no eﬃcient UC-secure solution
for ID-MPC over arbitrary ﬁnite ﬁelds is known.
1.1
Our Contribution
In this work, we construct an eﬃcient MPC protocol with identiﬁable abort for
arithmetic circuits over large ﬁelds, with UC security [Can01]. A key feature of
our protocol is an online phase based on simple, pairwise information-theoretic
MACs, just as in the (secure-with-abort) BDOZ protocol [BDOZ11]. Thanks to
this simple online phase, the correlated randomness that must be produced by
the preprocessing phase is just standard, authenticated multiplication triples,
the same as in secure-with-abort protocols. To allow identiﬁable abort in the
online phase, our main tool is a new compiler that transforms certain classes
of sender-receiver protocols, where one party has private input, into ones that
support cheater identiﬁcation. Our compiler overcomes some limitations of the
related compiler from [IOZ14], which only works for preprocessing protocols, and
also requires adaptive security of the original protocol.
1.2
Technical Overview
Online Phase. A natural approach to achieving identiﬁable abort in MPC
is to use a form of linear secret sharing where the parties are committed to
their shares via linearly homomorphic commitments. If the commitments sup-
port multiple receivers and identiﬁable abort, then secret-shared values can be
reliably opened, by checking commitments on the shares. Given a preprocessing
phase that generates random multiplication triples, where each share is authen-
ticated to all other parties using the homomorphic commitments, one can con-
struct a standard MPC protocol by exploiting linearity of the commitments and
using Beaver multiplication. This was done, for instance, in [BOS16], using an
information-theoretic identiﬁable commitment scheme; however, the structure
of the commitments is more complex than information-theoretic MACs used in
secure-with-abort MPC [BDOZ11,DPSZ12], which led to a much more costly
preprocessing protocol in [BOS16].
In this work, our online phase follows the same general approach, using pre-
processed triples and identiﬁable linear commitments. The key diﬀerences com-
pared with prior work are how we instantiate the preprocessing to generate mul-
3 [BOSS20] manages to avoid the use of adaptively secure primitives by making use of
a homomorphic commitment scheme and redeﬁnitions of the oﬄine ideal function-
ality. Speciﬁcally, in case of an abort of the oﬄine phase their ideal functionality at
this point did not yet output any values to the environment, so the original random
tapes can safely be opened. Moreover, their preprocessing protocol uses homomor-
phic commitments for shares and require that all parties commit to the values they
used in the preprocessing. The consistency is then ensured by opening random linear
combinations of the commitments, and in the online phase these commitments can
be used for cheater detection.

458
C. Baum et al.
tiplication triples with identiﬁable abort, and how we instantiate the identiﬁable,
linearly homomorphic commitments.
Preprocessing Phase. The goal of our preprocessing phase is to create addi-
tive secret shares of random multiplication triples over a large ﬁeld, which are
committed to using linearly homomorphic commitments. To do this, the par-
ties will ﬁrst run a secure-with-abort protocol, ΠTrip, to create unauthenticated
triples (for instance, using pairwise OLE), and then commit to their shares with
the homomorphic commitments. To guarantee that parties have committed to
the correct shares, we then run a sacriﬁcing-based correctness check, where one
triple is sacriﬁced to check another, similarly to [DPSZ12].
To identify cheaters in this approach, we must make two important changes.
First, following the IOZ compiler [IOZ14] and other similar approaches [BOSS20,
SSS22], we have the parties commit to their random tapes of the secure-with-
abort protocol ΠTrip before running it. If ΠTrip aborts, the parties then open
their random tapes and reconstruct the protocol transcript to identify who
cheated. This stage requires the original protocol to have a form of veriﬁable
transcripts, meaning that it is always possible to identify who cheated, when
given the (alleged) views of all parties together with their random tapes. We
formalize this property, which we call identiﬁable cheating, and show that it can
be cheaply added to any secure-with-abort protocol by adding digital signatures
to all pairwise communication. Signatures guarantee that if some party cheats,
there is a signed record of the messages it sent that can later be used to help
prove this.
It remains to discuss how we can still simulate the execution of ΠTrip, without
running into the aforementioned adaptive security issue. Following [BOSS20], we
have the simulator run an honest copy of ΠTrip, to generate the honest parties’
messages seen by the adversary. Now, it is easy to simulate the opening of random
tapes in case of abort, the only problem is that the simulator no longer has any
power to extract the corrupt parties’ inputs. In this case, however, the only inputs
that need to be extracted are the corrupted parties’ shares of multiplication
triples, which were already committed to via the homomorphic commitment
scheme. By relying on a UC secure homomorphic commitment functionality,
these shares can easily be extracted without having to use the ΠTrip simulator4.
The last issue is that even if the triple protocol ΠTrip runs correctly, the
overall protocol may still abort if the triple sacriﬁce fails, due to a corrupted
party committing to the wrong share. To recover from this, we again have the
parties open their random tapes from ΠTrip, so that all parties’ shares can be
recovered, and then compare these with the shares that were committed to in
the homomorphic commitment scheme by opening all the committed shares.
Building Identiﬁable, Homomorphic Commitments. To instantiate the
homomorphic commitment scheme, we design a scheme based on pairwise
4 We still rely on the existence of the ΠTrip simulator in the proof, to argue that the
simulated view is indistinguishable from the real protocol.

Cheater Identiﬁcation on a Budget
459
information-theoretic MACs, where the committed value is authenticated to
every other party with a MAC, as in BDOZ. An advantage of such MACs is
that they can be generated very eﬃciently using vector oblivious linear eval-
uation (VOLE) protocols based on variants of the learning parity with noise
assumption, such as [BCGI18,WYKW21,BCG+19]. However, the problem is
that MACs do not provide a way for parties to agree upon who cheated in the
event that an opening fails. Indeed, the impossibility result of [IOS12] implies
that this is impossible to do with black-box use of pairwise information-theoretic
MACs.
At a high level, our approach is to follow the same commit-and-open app-
roach as for the triple generation: if an opening fails, the parties will open their
random tapes for the VOLE protocols used to generate the MACs, and use the
reconstructed VOLE outputs to help identify who cheated. However, we are now
met with two new challenges. Firstly, the commit-and-open paradigm only works
for preprocessing protocols, since all parties need to open their random tapes in
case of an abort—when using homomorphic commitments in the online phase,
this would leak any private, committed inputs. Secondly, we again have to deal
with the adaptivity problem, which was essentially deferred in the preprocessing
stage, by relying on the security of the homomorphic commitment scheme.
Compiling Sender-Receiver Protocols to Identiﬁable Abort. We present
a new identiﬁable abort compiler that works for a general class of sender-receiver
protocols, where only one party (the sender) has private input. Like IOZ, our com-
piler makes black-box use of the underlying secure-with-abort protocol. Unlike
IOZ, however, we are not restricted to preprocessing protocols where no party
has private input—this allows us to apply our compiler to an arbitrary, linearly
homomorphic commitment scheme with multiple receivers, which we instantiate
with a VOLE-based protocol for setting up information-theoretic MACs.
At a high level, our compiler follows the same strategy as our preprocessing
phase, except that to prevent leakage of the sender’s private inputs, we only
require the receivers to commit to and open their random tapes, and not the
sender. Under a mild assumption on the communication pattern in the sender-
receiver protocol, we show that the receivers will still be able to identify a cheat-
ing sender, since in this case there will always be at least one honest receiver,
who can prove that they followed the protocol and aborted due to the cheating
sender. There is one issue with this approach, however. Even though receivers
do not have private inputs, they may have private outputs that can’t be revealed.
To remedy this, we use two diﬀerent types of recovery mechanisms, depending on
whether a sender or receiver is claiming an abort. In the ﬁrst case, the receivers
will all privately send their evidence to the sender, who will select and publish a
proof. In the second case, the aborting receiver must instead immediately open
its view for all parties to inspect and conﬁrm that it aborted; because of the
restricted communication pattern of sender-receiver protocols, this would imply
that the sender has cheated (and so it is not a problem to leak the receiver’s
output, which only depends on the corrupt sender’s input).

460
C. Baum et al.
Avoiding Adaptive Security via Online Extractability. The ﬁnal chal-
lenge in our compiler is ensuring that all of the identiﬁcation stages, where
honest receivers open their random tapes, can be simulated. Instead of relying
on adaptive security, we observe that a weaker property suﬃces, which we call
online extractability. In the UC security proof, there are two cases, depending
on whether the adversary corrupts the sender, or only (a subset of) the receivers.
In the ﬁrst case, the main job of the simulator is to simulate messages from the
honest receivers in such a way that it can extract the inputs of the corrupted
sender.5 If the simulator later has to open the honest receivers’ random tapes,
due to the malicious sender causing an abort, the natural approach relying on
adaptive security is for the simulator to adaptively corrupt the honest receivers,
so that it learns randomness that explains the previously simulated messages.
Online extractability instead deﬁnes a special type of simulation, where the nor-
mal protocol execution suﬃces to extract adversarial inputs, if one does only
imperceptible changes to the CRS or other hybrid functionalities. While this
is already how many UC protocol simulators work, we deﬁne this property for-
mally and show that it is composable. Having online extractability, the task of
the simulator in our IA compiler is now much easier: it can simulate messages
of the honest receivers by simply running an honest copy of the protocol, except
for the interaction with a setup functionality like a CRS. This makes it trivial
to open the random tape to identify a cheater, since the simulator has followed
the protocol honestly.6
Eﬃciency. We now brieﬂy discuss our eﬃciency gains, as summarized in Table 1.
Due to space constraints, we give a more detailed analysis in the full version of
the paper [BMRS23].
To investigate the overhead of obtaining identiﬁable abort, we compare
our protocol with two versions of the preprocessing and online phases from
Le Mans [RS22], which is secure with abort. Le Mans v1 (called Dynamic
SPDZ in [RS22]) has lower preprocessing requirements in exchange for a slower
online phase, while Le Mans v2 costs more in the preprocessing phase, but gets
the fastest online phase. Both versions of Le Mans, as well as our preprocess-
ing, require ≈n2 OLE and VOLE correlations for each multiplication gate,
to build authenticated multiplication triples. Asymptotically, if state-of-the-art
PCG techniques are used, producing the OLE/VOLEs can be done with a total
of O(n2 log(|C|)) communication, where |C| is the circuit size, and O(n2|C|) com-
putation. Our preprocessing has the same base cost as Le Mans, plus sending an
additional 2(n −1)|C| ﬁeld elements per party to authenticate and check triples.
5 In this case, note that the simulator does not need to equivocate the corrupted
receivers’ outputs to match those of the ideal functionality, because of the structure
of the sender-receiver protocol: these outputs only depend on the corrupted sender’s
input, so there is nothing to simulate.
6 Of course, one still has to prove that a protocol is online-extractable, but this is
seemingly simpler than a security proof for adaptive security. Indeed, we observe
that many protocols in the literature are already online-extractable.

Cheater Identiﬁcation on a Budget
461
Table 1. Comparing eﬃcient MPC protocols with and without identiﬁable abort. Pre-
processing cost reﬂects the cost per multiplication in the preprocessing phase, in terms
of building blocks (OLE/VOLE) plus total communication in ﬁeld elements.
Protocol
Building blocks IA Preprocessing cost
Online cost
Le Mans, v1 (V)OLE
✗
n2 × OLE∗
12n
Le Mans, v2 (V)OLE
✗
n2 × OLE∗+ O(n)
4n
[BOS16]
depth-1 HE
✓
O(n3)†
O(n2)‡
Ours
(V)OLE
✓
n2 × OLE∗+ O(n2)‡ O(n2)‡
∗Random, pairwise OLE and VOLE correlations. Can be generated with
amortized o(1) communication using variants of LPN [BCG+19,BCG+20].
† Must be broadcast
‡ Corrupted party can force to be broadcast
When it comes to the online phase, we use the standard BDOZ online phase
with authenticated triples and signatures added to the messages, which increases
the cost by O(n). Overall, our communication cost per party is dominated by
2(n−1)|C| ﬁeld elements for an honest execution. Dynamic SPDZ has an online
cost of only 12|C| ﬁeld elements per party, achieving only security with abort.
Compared to other ID-MPC protocols like [BOS16,BOSS20], in the prepro-
cessing phase, [BOS16] requires O(n3) broadcast messages per multiplication
gate, whereas we only need O(n2) broadcasts even in the worst-case scenario. In
the online phase, both [BOS16] and our protocol have O(n2) complexity.
Our protocol is expected to perform faster than [BOS16], primarily due to
the use of pseudorandom correlation generator (PCG) techniques, which are
estimated in [BCG+20] to have much lower communication overhead compared
to homomorphic encryption-based (HE) approach of [BOS16].
The protocol of [BOSS20] is incomparable to ours as it is a garbled circuit-
based (GC) construction that works for Boolean circuits. In comparison, our
construction allows the evaluation of circuits over Fp for large p with a round
complexity that depends on the circuit depth.
1.3
Related Work
Interest in the area of MPC with Identiﬁable Abort has increased recently, lead-
ing to many exciting research directions.
Brandt et al. [BMMM20] and independently Simkin et al. [SSY22] investi-
gated how to realize dishonest-majority MPC with identiﬁable abort from cor-
relations among less than all n parties.
Cohen et al. [CGZ20] investigated the two-round MPC setting with dishonest
majority and broadcast. They showed in which cases identiﬁable abort is achiev-
able, depending on the broadcast use. This was extended to the honest majority
setting by Damg˚ard et al. [DMR+21]. In follow-up work, [DRSY23] investigated
which setup is necessary for the two-round setting to achieve identiﬁable abort.

462
C. Baum et al.
In the plain model, Ciampi et al. [CRSW22] showed how to construct ID-MPC
in the optimal 4 rounds.
When considering covert instead of malicious security, Faust et al. [FHKS21]
as well as Scholl et al. [SSS22] constructed compilers from passively secure MPC
to covertly [AL07] secure MPC with security against n−1 corruptions using time-
lock puzzles. Later, Attema et al. [ADEL22] showed how to realize this without
time-lock puzzles, although requiring an honest majority. All these constructions
actually achieve a stronger property called publicly veriﬁable MPC which implies
identiﬁable abort.
Hazay et al. [HVW22] used framing-free designated-veriﬁer Zero-Knowledge
proofs to construct an alternative to the IOZ14 compiler. Their construction
only works for honest majority protocols.
More concretely, Chen et al. [CHI+21] constructed a dedicated RSA key
generation protocol with Identiﬁable Abort and security against a dishonest
majority. The eﬃciency of their construction comes from a communication model
that uses a centralized “coordinator” which realizes broadcast.
Concurrent Work. Recently, Cohen et al. [CDKs23] presented another app-
roach to identiﬁable abort, which also manages to avoid the need for adaptively
secure OT in the [IOZ14] compiler. Their method is based on revealing commit-
ted input values in case of cheating; in contrast to our approach of revealing
random tapes to verify protocol messages, [CDKs23] do not make use of the
underlying protocol messages in this way, instead relying on a special form of
committed OT functionality.
We believe that our work has a couple of advantages over [CDKs23]:
1. We directly support MPC for computing arithmetic circuits on private inputs,
instead of just correlated randomness functionalities. While [CDKs23] could
be used to instantiate the correlated randomness for, say, the [IOZ14] online
phase, the amount of correlated randomness needed would be at least n
times more than what’s used by our protocol, due to the use of O(n) sized
information-theoretic signatures used in [IOZ14] to authenticate the corre-
lated randomness.
2. Even for computing correlated randomness, our protocol seems to be more eﬃ-
cient. [CDKs23] gives an instantiation of MASCOT-like preprocessing, with
roughly a 50% overhead on top of the secure-with-abort protocol. Our pro-
tocol can be instantiated using VOLE based on SoftSpokenOT and triple
generation using OT, to obtain a similar result but with essentially no extra
communication cost for achieving identiﬁable abort.7
Roadmap. In contrast to the “top-down” presentation in the technical overview
in Sect. 1.2, the remainder of the paper proceeds in a “bottom-up” fashion. We
7 The main overhead incurred in our protocol is that, in the worst case, an adversary
can force all point-to-point messages to be broadcast. This broadcast is done by
default in [CDKs23].

Cheater Identiﬁcation on a Budget
463
start with our notion of online extractability in Sect. 3, followed by a construc-
tion of homomorphic commitments in Sect. 4, which are compiled to support
identiﬁable abort in Sect. 5. Section 6 then describes our triple generation proto-
col, which uses the previous building blocks. In the Supplementary Material, we
describe the online phase, as well as various additional technical details.
2
Preliminaries and Notation
We use κ as the security parameter and ρ as the statistical security parameter.
Bold letters such as a are used to indicate vectors, and a[i] refers to the i-
th element of the vector. We write [a, b] to denote the set of natural numbers
{a, . . . , b} and [a, b) = {a, . . . , b −1}. We use a ⊙b to indicate the component-
wise product of vectors.
2.1
Modeling Security
We work in the universal composability (UC) framework [Can01] for analyz-
ing security and assume some familiarity with this. In UC, protocols are run
by interactive Turing Machines (iTMs) called parties. We make the simplifying
assumption that any protocol π runs between a ﬁxed set of parties, typically
denoted P = {P1, . . . , Pn}. The adversary A, which is also an iTM, can actively
corrupt a subset PA ⊂P and gains control over these parties. We denote the set
of honest parties by PH = P \ PA. We focus on static corruptions, so these sets
are ﬁxed from the beginning. The parties can exchange messages via resources,
called ideal functionalities (which themselves are iTMs) and which are denoted
by F. We assume that all parties can communicate via authenticated channels,
and sometimes also use secure point-to-point channels and a reliable broadcast
channel. These are all modelled as ideal functionalities that can be realized on
top of authenticated channels using standard methods. In protocol descriptions,
instead of referring to the speciﬁc functionalities, we typically write e.g. Pi pri-
vately sends x to Pj or Pi broadcasts x. Moreover, we work in the synchronous
model, where protocols proceed in a sequence of rounds, such that every mes-
sage sent in one round is guaranteed to be delivered before the start of the
next round. Such synchronous communication channels can also be modelled in
UC [KMTZ13].
As usual, we deﬁne security with respect to an iTM Z called the environment.
The environment provides inputs to and receives outputs from the parties in P.
To deﬁne security, let πF1,... ◦A be the distribution of the output of an arbitrary
Z when interacting with A in a real protocol instance π using resources F1, . . . .
Furthermore, let S denote an ideal world adversary and F ◦S be the distribution
of the output of Z when interacting with parties which run with F instead of π
and where S takes care of adversarial behavior.
Deﬁnition 1. We say that π UC-securely implements F if for every iTM A
there exists an iTM S (with black-box access to A) such that for every environ-
ment Z, the outputs of Z ◦πF1,... ◦A and Z ◦F ◦S are identical except with
negligible probability.

464
C. Baum et al.
In the security experiment Z may arbitrarily activate parties or A, though only
one iTM (including Z) is active at each point of time.
Deﬁnition 2 (Identiﬁable Abort). Let F be a functionality running with
a set of parties P. We deﬁne [F]IA to be the corresponding functionality with
identiﬁable abort, where at any time, if A sends a message (Abort, J ) for some
non-empty set J ⊂PA, [F]IA sends (Abort, J ) to all parties and terminates.
Additionally, if F would at any point send a message Abort to P, it ﬁrst waits
to receive a non-empty J ⊂PA from A, and then sends (Abort, J ) instead.
2.2
VOLE and Information-Theoretic MACs
Fig. 1. Functionality for Programmable VOLE
The VOLE8 functionality Fprog
VOLE (Fig. 1) generates a batch of m random
VOLE correlations between two parties PA and PB, usually called sender and
receiver.
A VOLE correlation consists of two vectors u ∈Fm
p , w ∈Fm
pr held by PA, and
the element ΔB ∈Fpr and a vector v ∈Fm
pr held by PB, such that w = u·ΔB+v.
ΔB and v are chosen uniformly at random, while the Fprog
VOLE functionality allows
the sender to program its share u of the correlation by providing a seed. Hence,
8 More precisely, this is actually a so-called subﬁeld VOLE.

Cheater Identiﬁcation on a Budget
465
when running two instances of Fprog
VOLE with diﬀerent receivers PB, P ′
B but the
same seed, the sender PA ends up with the same values u as part of its VOLE
correlations. The Expand function in Fprog
VOLE should be a pseudorandom generator,
whose precise implementation depends on how the protocol is instantiated (for
instance, when using LPN-based VOLE [BCGI18,WYKW21], Expand is an LPN-
based PRG).
One can view a VOLE correlation as an information-theoretic MAC on the
vector u of PA. This is because: Fprog
VOLE does not reveal ΔB to the sender. Assume
that PA could produce a pair of vectors u′ ∈Fm
p , w′ ∈Fm
pr with u′ ̸= u such
that the VOLE correlation holds, along with the original u, w. Therefore,
w = u · ΔB + v,
w′ = u′ · ΔB + v
(1)
That means for the pairs, it needs to hold that (w[i]−w′[i])/(u[i]−u′[i]) = ΔB
(where the index i ∈[1, m] is such that u[i] ̸= u′[i]). In order for this to hold,
PA needs to know the secret ΔB if it can forge a MAC on a diﬀerent value u′.
However, ΔB is chosen randomly from a set of size pr so the probability of a
correct guess is negligible if pr is exponential in the security parameter.
In Fprog
VOLE, PB only obtains ΔB, v which are chosen uniformly at random
and independent of u. Therefore, PB learns no information about u from its
share of the correlation. The MAC scheme implied by VOLE is also linearly
homomorphic. Details can be found e.g. in [BDSW23].
2.3
Signatures
In this work, we crucially rely on digital signatures and we use the standard
security notion for digital signature schemes, namely, existential unforgeability
under adaptive chosen-message attacks (EUF-CMA).
Deﬁnition 3 (Signature Scheme). A signature scheme consists of the follow-
ing three PPT algorithms,
Gen(1λ): On input the security parameter λ, outputs a public key pk and signing
key sk.
Sig(sk, msg): On input the signing key sk and message msg ∈{0, 1}∗outputs a
string σ.
Ver(pk, σ, msg): On input a public key pk, signature σ and message msg ∈{0, 1}∗
outputs a bit b.
We require that (Gen, Sig, Ver) is correct, namely that
Pr
msg∈{0,1}∗

Ver(pk, σ, msg) = 1

(pk, sk) ←Gen(1λ)
σ ←Sig(sk, msg)

= 1

466
C. Baum et al.
Deﬁnition 4 (EUF-CMA security). Given a signature scheme (Gen, Sig,
Ver) and security parameter λ, we say that Sig is EUF-CMA-secure if any PPT
algorithm A has negligible advantage in the EUF-CMA game, deﬁned as
AdvEUF-CMA
A
= Pr
Ver(pk, σ∗, msg∗) = 1
∧msg∗̸∈Q

(pk, sk) ←Gen(1λ)
(msg∗, σ∗) ←ASig(sk,·)(pk)

,
where ASig(sk,·) denotes A’s access to a signing oracle with private key sk and Q
denotes the set of messages msg that were queried to Sig(sk, ·) by A.
2.4
Basic Functionalities
We additionally use a one-to-many commitment functionality FCommit, shown in
Fig. 2, as well as a coin-tossing functionality, FRand, in Fig. 3.
Fig. 2. Functionality for a Commitment
Fig. 3. Functionality for Coin Tossing with Identiﬁable Abort
These functionalities should have identiﬁable abort. UC commitments (with
identiﬁable abort) can be easily realized with a random oracle or CRS and a

Cheater Identiﬁcation on a Budget
467
broadcast channel, while coin-tossing can be realized using FCommit with a stan-
dard commit-and-open approach.
3
Online-Extractable Protocols
We now deﬁne a new subclass of UC-secure protocols, which we call online-
extractable. For such a protocol π we deﬁne a special experiment called the
extractor execution, that runs with a PPT iTM called the extractor, E, which
must extract the inputs of the adversary during a real execution of the protocol.
The extractor is allowed to manipulate any Common output functionalities (see
Deﬁnition 5) used in π, or observe any random oracle queries, as well as see all
communication between the adversary and any hybrid functionalities or honest
parties. Otherwise, the protocol π is run as in the real world experiment. This
manipulation done by E should not be noticeable to the environment, while the
inputs extracted by E should be indistinguishable from those that the simulator
S obtains in the ideal world.
The deﬁnition is inspired by many security proofs of UC protocols, where the
simulator S in the ideal setting simulates by running the actual protocol π with
dummy inputs for honest parties. At the same time, S can extract the actual
inputs of the dishonest parties that are controlled by A without actually deviat-
ing from the protocol9. This means that many protocols have this extractability
property already, and constructing E for them will be simple by manipulating S
(removing equivocation etc.). We will later see that such E comes in handy when
simulating protocols that have identiﬁable abort without relying on adaptive
security.
Deﬁning Online Extractability. Towards formalizing online extractability,
let π be a protocol that UC-implements a functionality F, possibly using some
other hybrid functionalities. For simplicity, we assume that parties in π either
communicate directly or access hybrid functionalities. We call certain hybrid
functionalities “Common output functionalities” if their input/output behavior
towards parties is independent of which party called it:
Deﬁnition 5 (Common Output Functionality).
A functionality F is a
Common output functionality if, on receiving an input (sid, x) from party Pi,
the functionality will give the same response that it would also give (i) upon
later query (sid, x) by Pi; and (ii) upon query (sid, x) by any other party Pj at
any point.
Some examples of Common output functionalities are the standard CRS func-
tionality FCRS (where x = ⊥) or a random oracle. Deﬁnition 5 essentially rules
out that F has an updatable memory that would change query results over time,
unless the update is provably undetectable to protocol parties.
9 A similar idea, although in the context of public veriﬁability, was used previously,
e.g. in [BDD20].

468
C. Baum et al.
Let us denote by ˆF a version of the ideal functionality F which immediately
outputs any inputs from A to F onto a special tape. We call this special tape
the ideal input tape. It can neither be seen by parties nor A or the environment
in any security experiment.
We also denote by [π]E the extractor execution of protocol π, which is a
modiﬁed execution of a protocol π with the extractor E, where:
1. E is allowed to observe the inputs sent to any Common output functionality
and freely program the output which is given in response to any input;
2. Every message sent between two parties Pi, Pj, where Pi is honest and Pj
corrupt, is ﬁrst given to E and then forwarded to the receiver;
3. Every (non-common-output) hybrid functionality FH in π is modiﬁed to ˆFH,
with an ideal input tape only accessible to E, on which the inputs from A to
FH are placed.
4. E continuously outputs certain values, whenever they are available, on a spe-
cial tape of its own, called the extractor tape.
As with the ideal input tape of ˆF, we assume that in the extractor execution [π]E,
the extractor tape cannot be accessed by any party, functionality, adversary or
environment unless mentioned otherwise. The only diﬀerence between [π]E and π
that may be noticeable to the environment is the change to the Common output
functionalities.
We now formally deﬁne online extractability.
Deﬁnition 6. Let π be a protocol that UC-securely implements an ideal func-
tionality F with a ﬁxed set of parties P and corrupted parties PA ⊂P. Then,
we say that π is online-extractable for corrupt PA if there exists a PPT iTM E,
and a UC simulator S for π, such that, for all environments Z and adversaries
A who statically corrupt the parties in PA:
1. Z cannot distinguish π ◦A from [π]E ◦A (where the extractor tape of E is not
available to Z or A).
2. The distribution of the ideal input tape of ˆF in ˆF ◦S is indistinguishable from
that of the extractor tape of E in [π]E ◦A.
UC Security vs. Online Extractability. The motivation for Deﬁnition 6 is that
many existing UC-secure protocols can easily have such an online extractor E.
On the other hand, we highlight that this does not imply that the extractor E
is a good UC simulator for π. Indeed, while E is required to successfully extract
the corrupted parties’ inputs, it does not (and cannot) equivocate by simulating
protocol messages to be consistent with outputs of an ideal functionality. Later,
when we use the deﬁnition, we will restrict ourselves to a class of protocols where
such equivocation is not needed.
We also observe that online extractability is not implied by UC security.
Consider a UC-secure protocol π that uses a trapdoor in the CRS for extraction,
such as the oblivious transfer protocol of [PVW08]. Moreover, let FMPC be a
general MPC functionality. We construct a protocol π′ as follows:

Cheater Identiﬁcation on a Budget
469
1. Generate a CRS crs′ for π, using FMPC, by running a sampling algorithm for
the CRS distribution inside FMPC, seeded using secret randomness.
2. After crs′ is output by FMPC, run π using crs′.
Assuming that FMPC is UC-secure, π′ is also UC-secure. To construct a sim-
ulator for π′, one uses the simulator of π to generate a CRS crs that can be used
for equivocation. Then, the simulator for π′ programs FMPC’s output to be crs
and otherwise runs the simulator of π as before. Indistinguishability of the new
simulator follows because of the indistinguishability of the simulator of π, as crs
must be indistinguishable from crs′ by assumption.
At the same time, π′ is clearly not online-extractable because no E can change
the outputs of FMPC, which would be necessary in order to extract inputs of the
adversary as in π.
Remark 1. Clearly, if FMPC was replaced with a normal CRS functionality then
its output could be programmed. Hence, this makes the above counter-example
somewhat contrived, and it might be that all “natural” UC protocols are indeed
online-extractable. Unfortunately, a broader deﬁnition which may be implied by
UC security10 seems tricky to formalize, since there are always more convoluted
counter-examples that can evade Deﬁnition 5 or similar requirements: for exam-
ple, a protocol might use FMPC both to perform some useful computation, and
simultaneously to generate a CRS used in a subsequent protocol.
Composition of Online Extractability. We now provide a lemma which
shows under which conditions the online extractability property composes. For
this, for protocols ρ, π and a functionality F we deﬁne ρF→π to be the protocol
that replaces the functionality F in ρ with an instance of π as usual in UC compo-
sition. We show that in such a case the composed protocol is online-extractable
if ρ as well as π are online-extractable. The proof is provided in the full version of
the paper [BMRS23] and simply embeds online extractability into the standard
universal composition argument.
Lemma 1. Let ρ be a protocol that UC-securely implements Fρ in the F-hybrid
model and is online-extractable for a corrupt set PA ⊂P. Let π be a protocol
that UC-securely implements F and is online-extractable for corrupt PA. Then
ρF→π is online-extractable with the same Fρ and PA.
The computational overhead from this composition is additive for each func-
tionality that gets replaced as we only run the new Eπ parallel to π. We can
therefore apply the lemma a polynomial number of times.
2-Message OT is Online-Extractable. To give an example of an online-
extractable protocol, we observe that any 2-message OT protocol in the CRS
model, such as [PVW08], is online-extractable against a corrupted receiver. We
will later build on this for showing that VOLE can be realised with online-
extractable protocols in the full version of the paper [BMRS23]. We assume a
standard OT functionality FOT, for instance, as in [PVW08].
10 We believe that this is unsurprising: while our deﬁnition captures an observation of
many known UC simulators, given the nature of the UC framework it seems hard to
prove that all simulators must follow this simulation strategy.

470
C. Baum et al.
Lemma 2. Let Π be any 2-message protocol that securely realizes the FOT func-
tionality in the FCRS-hybrid model. Then, Π is online-extractable for a corrupted
receiver.
Proof. Recall that in 2-message OT, the receiver must always send the ﬁrst
message. Without loss of generality, any simulator for a corrupted receiver can
then be deﬁned in terms of the randomized algorithms:
– crsSim: On input the security parameter, it outputs a crs together with a
trapdoor τ.
– ExtA: On input crs, τ and a receiver message msgA, it outputs an extracted
input σ ∈{0, 1}.
– SimA: On input crs, τ, a message msgA and the receiver’s output xσ, it outputs
a simulated sender message msgB.
The UC simulator uses crsSim to emulate FCRS, and then, on receiving the
adversary’s message msgA, extracts its input σ using ExtA and the trapdoor,
before receiving xσ from the ideal functionality and simulating the sender’s
response using SimA.
We deﬁne the extractor E, which starts by emulating FCRS using crsSim, and
then uses the trapdoor τ and the intercepted msgA from the honest receiver
to extract an input σ with ExtA, which it writes to the special extractor tape.
The only diﬀerence between the two executions [π]E ◦A and π ◦A to any Z is
the way the CRS is sampled; but since Π is a secure protocol, these must be
indistinguishable. Furthermore, since the extractor tape is deﬁned using ExtA, it
is distributed identically to the extracted input in the UC simulation, as required.
4
Homomorphic Commitments Based on VOLE
In this section, we ﬁrst deﬁne a functionality for homomorphic commitment,
FHCom, which will be used as a building block in our preprocessing phase. We
then show how to eﬃciently instantiate this with a sender-receiver protocol based
on VOLE, giving security with abort. Using the compiler of Sect. 5, this can be
directly upgraded to achieve identiﬁable abort.
The functionality, shown in Fig. 4, allows a sender to input values that will
be committed, as well as have random committed values sampled by the func-
tionality. FHCom allows linear operations to be performed on the commitments,
and for values to be opened privately to any one receiver, as well as publicly to
all receivers. Note that FHCom only supports selective abort, and not unanimous
abort. However, our compiler to identiﬁable abort only requires a protocol with
selective abort.
Information-Theoretic
MACs.
We
now
introduce
the
notation
for
information-theoretic MACs as we use it in the protocol, building on Sect. 2.2.
In the protocol, the sender PS will be committed to values in Fp by holding a

Cheater Identiﬁcation on a Budget
471
Fig. 4. Functionality for a Homomorphic Commitment
MAC on x ∈Fp for each receiver, under keys known only to the receivers. The
linear MAC with a receiver Pi is deﬁned as,
M S
i x = x · Δi + Ki
Sx
where Δi ∈Fpr is a long-term or global key and Ki
Sx ∈Fpr is a local key, used
only for the MAC on x. Both keys are held by receiver Pi, while PS holds x and
M S
i x (for each i ∈[n]).11 We occasionally write M S
i , Ki
S when it is clear from
context which value is being MACed.
When x is MACed with every other receiver, we use the notation
⟨x⟩= {(x, {M S
i x}i∈[n]), K1
Sx, . . . , Kn
Sx}
We write ⟨x⟩i to denote the parts of ⟨x⟩known to Pi, that is, ⟨x⟩i = Ki
Sx
if i ∈[n] and ⟨x⟩S = (x, {M S
i x}i∈[n]) for the sender PS.
We write ⟨x⟩+ ⟨y⟩to denote addition of each party’s respective components,
which gives a valid set of MACs ⟨x + y⟩, thanks to the linearity of the MACs.
We also write ⟨x⟩+ γ to denote adding a public constant γ to ⟨x⟩, which is done
by having PS add γ to x, while each receiver Pi subtracts γ · Δi from Ki
Sx,
giving ⟨x + γ⟩.
11 Note that the index in superscript denotes the party who holds a value.

472
C. Baum et al.
Fig. 5. Protocol for a Homomorphic Commitment
4.1
Protocol with Abort
Our protocol (Fig. 5) is based on a similar MAC generation protocol from [RS22],
with the diﬀerence that we only have a single sender instead of n senders, which
allows us to simplify the protocol. MACs are set up using the VOLE function-
ality Fprog
VOLE (Fig. 1) introduced in Sect. 2.2, which generates a batch of random

Cheater Identiﬁcation on a Budget
473
MACed values between two parties. Importantly, even though the authenticated
values are random, the Fprog
VOLE functionality allows the sender to program these
by providing a seed, such that when running two instances of Fprog
VOLE among
diﬀerent receivers, it ends up committed to the same set of random values.
Consistency Check. Since Fprog
VOLE does not guarantee that in each pair (PS, Pi)
for i ∈PR, PS inputs the same seed s, we use a consistency check in ΠHCom. In
the check, the receivers challenge the sender to open a linear combination of all
the committed values, with an extra random mask (lm+1) to ensure privacy of
the opened combination. We formalise the security of the check by modelling
the errors introduced by a corrupt PS as follows.
Suppose that PS used inconsistent seeds with two receivers P1 and P2. Since
the seeds are used to compute the u values using the Expand function, this will
result in two diﬀerent u values, say, u1 and u2, and hence, diﬀerent commitments

l1
j

,

l2
j

. Without loss of generality, deﬁne the seed used with party P1 to be
the correct seed. In the security proof, the simulator can extract all seeds and
then compute the errors δ2
j = l2
j −l1
j, for j ∈[1, m + 1]. If both PS and the
receiver party are corrupt, we set the errors to be 0. We prove that an adversary
cannot pass the check with inconsistent seeds except with negligible probability
via the following lemma. Proofs for the lemma as well as the theorem are given
in the full version of the paper [BMRS23].
Lemma 3. Suppose PS ∈A introduces errors of the form δi
j with party Pi, for
j ∈[m + 1], in the Random command in ΠHCom (Fig. 5). If the consistency check
passes, then every pair of parties (PS, Pi), for i ∈[1, n] hold a secret sharing of
lj · Δi, for j ∈[m]. In other words, δi
j = 0, for every i and j ∈[m], except with
probability 1/|F|.
Theorem 1. Protocol ΠHCom UC-securely realises the functionality FHCom
assuming a broadcast channel in the presence of a malicious adversary that can
statically corrupt up to n −1 parties, in the (Fprog
VOLE, FRand)-hybrid model.
4.2
Online Extractibility of ΠHCom
Lemma 4. Protocol ΠHCom in Fig. 5 is online-extractable, for any adversary
corrupting the sender and any subset of receivers.
Proof. Let S be the simulator for ΠHCom given in the proof of Theorem 1, for the
case when the sender and a subset of the receivers are corrupted. In ΠHCom, there
is never any communication from a receiver to the sender, so the only task of S
is to emulate the hybrid functionalities Fprog
VOLE and FRand towards the adversary,
while interacting with the FHCom functionality. We can therefore use S to deﬁne
the extractor E, running in the execution [π]E, as follows:
– E runs an internal copy of S; since E receives any message sent from the
corrupt sender to an honest receiver, it can forward these messages to S,
acting as the adversary.

474
C. Baum et al.
– Whenever A sends a message to a hybrid functionality Fprog
VOLE, E forwards the
message to S.
– Whenever S calls FHCom with some message msg, E outputs msg on its special
extractor tape. E responds to S exactly as FHCom would; this is possible
because PS is corrupted, so E knows all of the committed inputs and can
correctly open them as needed. If FHCom aborts, then E aborts.
To show that E is a good extractor, we ﬁrst require that the executions
π ◦A and [π]E ◦A are indistinguishable. The only diﬀerence between the two
executions is that E is simulating the Fprog
VOLE instances, and also may abort in
case the underlying simulator S aborts. However, it follows from the proof of
Theorem 1 that these diﬀerences are negligible.
Secondly, we must show that the special extractor tape in [π]E is indistin-
guishable from the special functionality tape of ˆFHCom in ˆFHCom ◦S to any envi-
ronment Z. This is trivially true, because E is running S the same way as in
an ideal execution, and the extractor tape of E contains exactly the messages S
sends to FHCom.
Online Extractability of VOLE Protocol. To use ΠHCom in our compiler for
identiﬁable abort, it is not enough that ΠHCom is online-extractable on its own,
since the compiler from Sect. 5 requires that ΠHCom only uses FRand and/or FCRS
as its hybrid functionalities. In the full version of the paper [BMRS23], we show
that Fprog
VOLE can be replaced with a VOLE protocol in the FOT-hybrid model,
where the sender plays the OT receiver, and this protocol is online-extractable
when the sender is corrupted. Since we showed in Lemma 2 how to realize FOT
in an online-extractable way, by applying composition (Lemma 1), this gives an
online-extractable protocol for Fprog
VOLE in the FCRS-hybrid model.
The identiﬁable abort version of FHCom, FIA
HCom appears in the Appendix in
the full version of the paper [BMRS23].
5
Compiling to Identiﬁable Abort
In this section, we show how to compile a protocol with active security with
selective abort, and online extractibility, into a protocol that achieves identiﬁable
abort. More speciﬁcally, we handle any class of protocols that are in the CRS
model and are sender-receiver protocols, where the receivers do not have any
private inputs and do not have any communication between them. This is deﬁned
formally below.
Deﬁnition 7. Let
Π
be
a
protocol
realizing
a
functionality
F
in
the
(FCRS, FRand)-hybrid model. We say that Π is a sender-receiver protocol if (1)
No receiver has private inputs and only interacts with the sender, except when
communicating with FCRS or FRand; and (2) Whenever the sender PS, with ran-
dom tape ρS, has an input inp and sends a message to a receiver, this is done
with either:

Cheater Identiﬁcation on a Budget
475
– A broadcast channel, using a function NextBC(ρS, inp, state), which outputs
an updated state and the message msg to be broadcast. The viewS may contain
any outputs from FCRS or FRand, but is otherwise only used by NextBC.
– Private communication to receiver Pi, using a function NextMsg(ρS, Pi,
msgsi, state), where msgsi contains the set of messages previously received
from Pi.
In particular, this deﬁnition implies that any messages sent from the sender
to a receiver, including via the broadcast channel, cannot depend on any previous
message sent from another receiver to the sender.
It is straightforward to see that if we take ΠHCom (Fig. 5), and replace Fprog
VOLE
with any secure 2-party protocol in the CRS model, we obtain a sender-receiver
protocol. In Input, Private Output, Batch Output, and Output, PS is the
only party sending messages to the receivers in ΠHCom. In Random, it is clear
that the messages sent from PS to the receivers, and as input to Fprog
VOLE, only
depend on PS’s random tape and the messages received from FRand. Since Fprog
VOLE
is a two-party functionality, replacing it with a secure two-party protocol ensures
that the protocol messages to Pi still cannot depend on the view of any other
receiver Pj.
5.1
The Compiler
In the protocol (Fig. 8), the parties start by picking a public and secret key pair
for a signature scheme, and broadcast the public key. We use an EUF-CMA
secure signature scheme (Gen, Sig, Ver). The compiler runs the original protocol
Π, and in each round, the parties add signatures to every message they are
supposed to send. If any signature does not verify, or a message was not received,
the receiving party Pi initiates the complaint procedure in Fig. 6, which forces
the sending party to broadcast the message to all parties (or be identiﬁed as a
cheater) (Fig. 7).
Fig. 6. Complaint procedure for a missing message from Pj to Pi
The main challenge is to handle the case where Π aborts, and we use diﬀerent
strategies based on the party which aborts. If there was an abort in Π, the
aborting party starts the Abort phase of the protocol, where the parties identify

476
C. Baum et al.
Fig. 7. Algorithm for verifying whether a receiver should have aborted.
the cheater as follows. If a receiver party, say Pi, aborts, then since Π is a
sender-receiver protocol, it must be the case that either PS or Pi is a cheater,
so the parties just need to establish which. We therefore have Pi broadcast its
view, and open its random tape to all the parties. The rest of the parties can
locally check if Pi cheated by running the VerifyAbort algorithm, which veriﬁes
the correctness of the messages it sent by recomputing the actual messages using
the NextMsg function. VerifyAbort has the guarantee that if run with an honest
Pi’s view and random tape, it always outputs good, and that it is not possible to
frame an honest Pi by making it output fail because that would require forging
a signature. Parties abort with either aborti or with abortS depending on who
cheated.
On the other hand, if PS was the party that aborted, the natural approach
would be to have PS broadcast its view and random tape as in the earlier case.
However, we do not want to reveal the sender’s random tape. We do not want
the sender broadcasting even its view with all the receiver parties, as this poses a
problem for simulation. In this case, we are operating with an honest sender, and
a subset of receivers that are corrupt. Because this is a sender-receiver protocol,
the honest receivers may have private outputs from the sender. This means the
simulator cannot forge a view for the honest sender to give to the adversary.
Instead, we have all the receivers send their views and random tapes to the
sender. The sender locally runs Identify (Fig. 9) on all the views and random
tapes, including its own view, to identify the receiver party that cheated. If a
receiver Pi does not send its view to the sender then the sender broadcasts a
complaint message for Pi who is then forced to broadcast its view and its random
tape. Identify can reconstruct what an honest receiver should have sent, based
on the random tape of the receiver and the NextMsg function. Then it compares
these messages to the messages from the sender’s view, which allows it to always
identify if the receiver cheated. PS then broadcasts its view only with respect
to the cheating party, along with that party’s view and random tape. The other
honest parties can locally run Identify on these to be convinced that Pi was the
cheater. This avoids the problem of the simulator having to send the full view
of the honest sender. A formal description of the compiler appears in Fig. 8.

Cheater Identiﬁcation on a Budget
477
Fig. 8. Compiler for identiﬁable abort
Theorem 2. Let Π be a perfectly correct, sender-receiver protocol that UC-
securely realises a functionality F with active security and dishonest major-

478
C. Baum et al.
Fig. 9. Algorithm for identifying a cheater.
ity, and supports online extractability when the sender and a subset of receivers
are corrupt. Let (Gen, Sig, Ver) be a EUF-CMA secure signature scheme. Then
the compiled protocol ΠIA
Cmp securely realizes F with active security in the
FCRS, FCommit-hybrid model, and achieves identiﬁable abort.
Due to space constraints, we defer the full proof of the theorem to the full
version of the paper [BMRS23] and provide a proof sketch.
Proof (Sketch). First, whenever A communicates with FCRS, S calls the extractor
E which picks whichever CRS it wants and S forwards it to A. We have two cases
of corruption:
1. The sender and a subset of the receivers are corrupt. In this case, S can use E
and an honest execution of the protocol to forward A’s inputs to FIA
HCom. The
two interesting cases of abort are: a corrupt receiver or a corrupt sender. Those
cases are taken care of by running VerifyAbort and IA.Identify respectively on
the random tapes that S received.
2. A subset of receivers is corrupt. In this case S uses the UC simulator SΠ of
the original protocol and whenever SΠ communicates with FHCom, S forwards
all the messages to FIA
HCom. The abort here can happen either by a corrupt
receiver or an honest sender. As before, they are taken care of by running
VerifyAbort and IA.Identify on the random tapes of the corrupt parties that it
received.
In both cases, the correctness of the identiﬁed cheaters follows from the EUF-
CMA property of the signature scheme and the binding property of FCommit.
5.2
Identiﬁable Cheating
We now present another transformation, which does not directly yield identiﬁ-
able abort, but on the other hand, is not restricted to sender-receiver protocols.

Cheater Identiﬁcation on a Budget
479
Similarly to the previous compiler, we use signatures to verify point-to-point
communication. This ensures that a protocol transcript is veriﬁable, in the sense
that, in an execution where an honest party aborts, a cheater can be identiﬁed
given the views of all parties, even if a corrupt party may lie about its view. We
will use this transformation as part of our preprocessing protocol in Sect. 6, to
ensure that the triple generation subprotocol can be veriﬁed in case of an abort.
Protocol Assumptions. We let NextMsg denote a component of each party’s
state transition function that, on input the party identiﬁer Pi, random tape ρi,
the view of Pi, and round r, outputs the next message m that Pi is supposed
to send. We assume that the protocol Π realizes a functionality F, and is in the
(FCRS, FRand)-hybrid model.
Deﬁnition 8 (Dishonest execution). Consider a non-aborting execution of
protocol Π between parties P1, . . . , Pn wit h random tapes (ρ1, . . . , ρn), and a set
PA of corrupted parties. We say that the execution was dishonest with respect
to PA, if there exists at least one honest party whose view in the execution is
diﬀerent compared to the view of the same party in an honest execution of Π on
(ρ1, . . . , ρn) (Fig. 11).
Fig. 10. Compiler for identiﬁable cheating
The notion is deﬁned via a game and a polynomial time algorithm Identify.
The idea of the deﬁnition is as follows, we ﬁrst run the protocol Π with a set
of parties P1, . . . , Pn. The protocol generates the set of views {viewi}i∈[1,n]. The
adversary is allowed to replace up to n −1 views with corrupted ones. We show
that the identiﬁable cheating compiler guarantees that, except with negligible
probability, given all the views, the random tapes of the parties, and public keys
of all the parties, the Identify algorithm successfully identiﬁes the cheating party.
Formally, the deﬁnitions are as follows:

480
C. Baum et al.
Fig. 11. Algorithm for identifying a cheater.
Deﬁnition 9 (Identiﬁable cheating).
Let Π be an actively secure protocol
that UC-securely realises F and in the FCRS-hybrid model. Let Identify be a deter-
ministic polynomial-time algorithm with the syntax:
– Identify

(pki, ρi, viewi)i∈[n]

: On input the public keys, random tapes and
views of all the parties, Identify either outputs a corrupt party Pi or an honest
execution symbol ⊥.
A protocol Π supports identiﬁable cheating if for any P.P.T adversary A it
holds that:
Pr[Expic
A,Π(λ) = 1] ≤v(λ)
where λ ∈N, v is a negligible function and Expic
A,Π(λ) is deﬁned as in Fig. 12.
The idea of our compiler ΠIC
Cmp that ensures identiﬁable cheating is to have
parties add signatures to their messages. In order for parties to sign and verify
messages, each party chooses a public key and a secret key for a signature scheme,
and broadcasts the public key before running the compiled protocol. If a party in
the protocol thinks a message or the signature it received is invalid, it broadcasts
a complaint message, upon which the sender of the message must broadcast
the message and the signature to all the parties. The formal protocol for the
identiﬁable cheating compiler appears in Fig. 10.
We prove that using this compiler with any protocol that is actively secure
in the dishonest majority with abort, gives a protocol that has the identiﬁable
cheating property.
Theorem 3. Let Π be a protocol that UC-securely realises a functionality F
with active security and dishonest majority. Let (Gen, Sig, Ver) be a EUF-CMA
secure signature scheme. Then the compiled protocol ΠCmp securely realises F
with active security in the CRS model and using broadcast, and achieves the
identiﬁable cheating property.

Cheater Identiﬁcation on a Budget
481
Fig. 12. Experiment for Identiﬁable Cheating
Due to space constraints, we defer the full proof of the theorem to the full
version of the paper [BMRS23].
6
Preprocessing
In this section, we build our preprocessing protocol with identiﬁable abort, using
the homomorphic commitments with identiﬁable abort from the previous section.
The preprocessing protocol allows parties to secret-share random values such
that the secret is known to one party only, as well as to create sharings of
multiplication triples, that is, two random values together with a sharing of
their product. In both cases, all shares are homomorphically committed. Parties
can also apply linear operations to these sharings without interaction, or open
them with identiﬁable abort. The preprocessing functionality, abstracting this,
is formally described in Fig. 13.
In the preprocessing protocol ΠIA
Prep, we will use (amongst other functionali-
ties) n sessions of FIA
HCom, where we denote by FIA,i
HCom the session where party Pi
is sender and all other parties are receivers, and refer to this as Pi’s session of
FIA
HCom. We use the notation ⟨·⟩C to denote values that are additively shared and
where each party Pi’s share is committed using FIA,i
HCom where it is the sender.
For a value ⟨x⟩C, each party Pi holds (xi, id1, . . . , idn), where idi is the identiﬁer
where FIA,i
HCom stores the share xi. Any linear operation performed on ⟨x⟩can
also be performed on the commitments, by calling LinComb with each FIA
HCom ses-
sion. To open ⟨x⟩C, each Pi calls FIA,i
HCom with (Output, idi), for i ∈[1, n], and all
receivers now either receive x or (Abort, J ), where J indicates the set of cheating
parties. [x] denotes that x ∈Fp is additively shared between the parties, that is,
x = x1 + . . . + xn where Pi holds xi.

482
C. Baum et al.
Fig. 13. Functionality for Preprocessing
The preprocessing protocol is described in Figs. 15 and 16. To generate a
random input towards a party, say Pi, each Pj generates a private random value,
committed using FIA,j
HCom, and then privately opens this to Pi. Pi sets its random
input to be the sum of all the random values it receives across the n sessions of
FIA
HCom. Since the parties only use FIA
HCom functionalities here, cheater identiﬁca-
tion is trivial.
To generate triples, we rely on a secure-with-abort triple generation pro-
tocol, ΠTrip, that securely realizes the FTriple functionality (Fig. 14); this can be
eﬃciently realized, for instance, using pairwise OLE correlations as in the prepro-
cessing protocol of Le Mans [RS22]. We then compile ΠTrip to support identiﬁable
cheating, using our compiler from Fig. 10, to obtain a protocol ΠIC
Trip.

Cheater Identiﬁcation on a Budget
483
Fig. 14. Functionality for unauthenticated triples
Fig. 15. Protocol for preprocessing
After running ΠIC
Trip, each party gets unauthenticated shares of a batch of
triples. These triples are then authenticated, by having parties commit to their
shares using the respective sessions of FIA
HCom, and then checked for correctness,
using random challenges and a standard triple sacriﬁce protocol.

484
C. Baum et al.
Fig. 16. Protocol for preprocessing (Triple Generation)
Notice that there can two types of errors when creating triples. Firstly, the
triple generation protocol ΠIC
Trip might abort. The other kind of error is when
ΠIC
Trip results in consistent shares of triples, but the adversary inputs inconsistent
shares into FIA
HCom. This would lead to the triple sacriﬁce failing. If there is an
abort in ΠIC
Trip, parties open their random tapes using FCommit and broadcast

Cheater Identiﬁcation on a Budget
485
their views from ΠIC
Trip. Since ΠIC
Trip has identiﬁable cheating, parties can now run
the Identify algorithm locally on input (pki, viewi, ρi)n
i=1 to identify a corrupt
party. If there is an abort in the sacriﬁce check, on the other hand, in addition
to running Identify, they also need to check consistency of the inputs to FIA
HCom
to outputs of ΠIC
Trip. In order to do this, they call FIA
HCom with Output across all
sessions of FIA
HCom and check that the inputs to FIA
HCom match with the outputs
of ΠIC
Trip. Here, any deviation allows to directly identify a cheater.
Theorem 4. Suppose that a perfectly correct protocol ΠTrip UC-securely imple-
ments FTriple against an active adversary corrupting at most n −1 parties.
Then, the protocol ΠIA
Prep (using the compiled protocol ΠIC
Trip) UC-securely
implements the functionality FIA
Prep in the presence of a malicious adversary
that statically corrupts up to n −1 parties, in the (FRand, FIA
HCom, FCommit)-hybrid
model.
In the proof, we construct a simulator S which simulates honest parties and
the ideal functionalities towards the adversary. For Random Input S just runs
the protocol, except for a malicious receiver Pi where S equivocates an honest
party’s commitment in FIA
HCom to open to the output provided FIA
Prep. For Output,
it does exactly the same. Linear Operation is entirely local, so simulation is
trivial. For Triple Generation S runs the protocol, but will always abort if
the FIA
HCom sessions contain values that are not consistent multiplication triples.
To show that S’s output can only be distinguished from ΠIA
Prep with the given
probability, the main diﬀerence lies in the occurrence of aborts and the identiﬁed
cheaters. The 1/(p −1) term comes from aborts that also happen in S if d = 0
(while the protocol never aborts). Concerning identiﬁed cheaters, we have that
Identify identiﬁes no or an honest party (i.e. the wrong party) with probability at
most negl(λ) due to the Identiﬁable Cheating property of ΠTrip, while S always
identiﬁes corrupt dishonest parties.
Due to space constraints, we defer the full proof of the theorem to the full
version of the paper [BMRS23].
Acknowledgements. Carsten Baum was supported by research grant VIL53029 from
VILLUM FONDEN. Nikolas Melissaris is funded by the European Research Council
(ERC) under the European Unions’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation program
under grant agreement No. 803096 (SPEC). Rahul Rachuri was supported by Euro-
pean Research Council (ERC) under the European Unions’s Horizon 2020 research
and innovation program under grant agreement No. 803096 (SPEC) while at Aarhus
University. Peter Scholl is funded by the Independent Research Fund Denmark (DFF)
under project number 0165-00107B (C3PO), and the Aarhus University Research Foun-
dation.

486
C. Baum et al.
References
ADEL22. Attema, T., Dunning, V., Everts, M., Langenkamp, P.: Eﬃcient compiler
to covert security with public veriﬁability for honest majority MPC. In:
Ateniese, G., Venturi, D. (eds.) Applied Cryptography and Network Secu-
rity, ACNS 2022. LNCS, vol. 13269, pp. 663–683. Springer, Cham (2022).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-09234-3 33
AL07. Aumann, Y., Lindell, Y.: Security against covert adversaries: eﬃcient pro-
tocols for realistic adversaries. In: Vadhan, S.P. (eds.) Theory of Cryp-
tography, TCC 2007. LNCS, vol. 4392, pp. 137–156. Springer, Heidelberg
(2007). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-70936-7 8
BCG+19. Boyle, E., et al.: Eﬃcient two-round OT extension and silent non-
interactive secure computation. In: Cavallaro, L., Kinder, J., Wang, X.,
Katz, J. (eds.) ACM CCS 2019, November 2019, pp. 291–308. ACM Press
(2019)
BCG+20. Boyle, E., Couteau, G., Gilboa, N., Ishai, Y., Kohl, L., Scholl, P.: Eﬃcient
pseudorandom correlation generators from ring-LPN. In: Micciancio, D.,
Ristenpart, T. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology, CRYPTO 2020. LNCS, vol.
12171, pp. 387–416 (2020). Springer, Cham. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-030-56880-1 14
BCGI18. Boyle, E., Couteau, G., Gilboa, N., Ishai, Y.: Compressing vector OLE.
In: Lie, D., Mannan, M., Backes, M., Wang, X., (eds.) ACM CCS 2018,
October 2018, pp. 896–912. ACM Press (2018)
BDD20. Baum, C., David, B., Dowsley, R.: A framework for universally compos-
able publicly veriﬁable cryptographic protocols. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Report 2020/207 (2020). https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/207
BDOZ11. Bendlin, R., Damg˚ard, I., Orlandi, C., Zakarias, S.: Semi-homomorphic
encryption
and
multiparty
computation.
In:
Paterson,
K.G.
(eds.)
Advances in Cryptology, EUROCRYPT 2011. LNCS, vol. 6632, pp.
169–188. Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-
20465-4 11
BDSW23. Baum, C., Dittmer, S., Scholl, P., Wang, X.: Sok: vector OLE-based zero-
knowledge protocols. DCC 91(11), 3527–3561 (2023)
BMMM20. Brandt, N.-P., Maier, S., M¨uller, T., M¨uller-Quade, J.: Constructing
secure multi-party computation with identiﬁable abort. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Report 2020/153 (2020). https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/153
BMR90. Beaver, D., Micali, S., Rogaway, P.: The round complexity of secure pro-
tocols (extended abstract). In: 22nd ACM STOC, May 1990, pp. 503–513.
ACM Press (1990)
BMRS23. Baum, C., Melissaris, N., Rachuri, R., Scholl, P.: Cheater identiﬁcation
on a budget: MPC with identiﬁable abort from pairwise macs. Cryptol-
ogy ePrint Archive, Paper 2023/1548 (2023). https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/
1548
BOS16. Baum, C., Orsini, E., Scholl, P.: Eﬃcient secure multiparty computation
with identiﬁable abort. In: Hirt, M., Smith, A. (eds.) TCC 2016. LNCS, vol.
9985, pp. 461–490. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-662-53641-4 18

Cheater Identiﬁcation on a Budget
487
BOSS20. Baum, C., Orsini, E., Scholl, P., Soria-Vazquez, E.: Eﬃcient constant-
round MPC with identiﬁable abort and public veriﬁability. In: Micciancio,
D., Ristenpart, T. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology, CRYPTO 2020, Part II.
LNCS, vol. 12171, pp. 562–592. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-030-56880-1 20
Can01. Canetti, R.: Universally composable security: a new paradigm for cryp-
tographic protocols. In: 42nd FOCS, October 2001, pp. 136–145. IEEE
Computer Society Press (2001)
CDKs23. Cohen, R., Doerner, J., Kondi, Y., Shelat, A.: Secure multiparty compu-
tation with identiﬁable abort from vindicating release. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Paper 2023/1136 (2023). https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1136
CFY17. Cunningham, R., Fuller, B., Yakoubov, S.: Catching MPC cheaters: identi-
ﬁcation and openability. In: Shikata, J. (eds.) Information Theoretic Secu-
rity, ICITS 2017. LNCS, vol. 10681, pp. 110–134. Springer, Cham (2017).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-72089-0 7
CGZ20. Cohen, R., Garay, J., Zikas, V.: Broadcast-optimal two-round MPC. In:
Canteaut, A., Ishai, Y. (eds) Advances in Cryptology, EUROCRYPT 2020,
Part II. LNCS, vol. 12106, pp. 828–858. Springer, Cham (2020). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-45724-2 28
CHI+21. Chen, M., et al.: Diogenes: lightweight scalable RSA modulus generation
with a dishonest majority. In: 2021 IEEE Symposium on Security and
Privacy, May 2021, pp. 590–607. IEEE Computer Society Press (2021)
Cle86. Cleve, R.: Limits on the security of coin ﬂips when half the processors are
faulty (extended abstract). In: 18th ACM STOC, May 1986, pp. 364–369.
ACM Press (1986)
CRSW22. Ciampi, M., Ravi, D., Siniscalchi, L., Waldner. H., Round-optimal multi-
party computation with identiﬁable abort. In: Dunkelman, O., Dziem-
bowski, S. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology, EUROCRYPT 2022, Part I.
LNCS, May/June 2022, vol. 13275, pp. 335–364. Springer, Heidelberg
(2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-06944-4 12
DMR+21. Damg˚ard, I., Magri, B., Ravi, D., Siniscalchi, L., Yakoubov, S.: Broadcast-
optimal two round MPC with an honest majority. In: Malkin, T., Peikert,
C. (eds.) CRYPTO 2021. LNCS, vol. 12826, pp. 155–184. Springer, Cham
(2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84245-1 6
DPSZ12. Damg˚ard, I., Pastro, V., Smart, N.P., Zakarias, S.: Multiparty computation
from somewhat homomorphic encryption. In: Safavi-Naini, R., Canetti,
R. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology, CRYPTO 2012. LNCS, vol. 7417, pp.
643–662. Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-
32009-5 38
DRSY23. Damg˚ard, I., Ravi, D., Siniscalchi, L., Yakoubov, S.: Minimizing setup
in broadcast-optimal two round MPC. In: Hazay, C., Stam, M. (eds.)
Advances in Cryptology, EUROCRYPT 2023, Part II. LNCS, vol. 14005,
pp. 129–158. Springer, Heidelberg (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
031-30617-4 5
FHKS21. Faust, S., Hazay, C., Kretzler, D., Schlosser, B.: Generic compiler for pub-
licly veriﬁable covert multi-party computation. In: Canteaut, A., Stan-
daert, F.X. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology, EUROCRYPT 2021, Part II.
LNCS, vol. 12697, pp. 782–811. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-030-77886-6 27

488
C. Baum et al.
GMW87. Goldreich, O., Micali, S., Wigderson, A.: How to play any mental game
or a completeness theorem for protocols with honest majority. In: Aho, A.
(ed.) 19th ACM STOC, May 1987, pp. 218–229. ACM Press (1987)
HVW22. Hazay, C., Venkitasubramaniam, M., Weiss, M.: Protecting distributed
primitives against leakage: equivocal secret sharing and more. In: 3rd Con-
ference on Information-Theoretic Cryptography, ITC 2022 (2022)
IOS12. Ishai, Y., Ostrovsky, R., Seyalioglu, H.: Identifying cheaters without an
honest majority. In: Cramer, R. (ed.) TCC 2012. LNCS, vol. 7194, pp. 21–
38. Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-28914-
9 2
IOZ14. Ishai, Y., Ostrovsky, R., Zikas, V.: Secure multi-party computation with
identiﬁable abort. In: Garay, J.A., Gennaro, R. (eds.) Advances in Cryp-
tology, CRYPTO 2014, Part II. LNCS, vol. 8617, pp. 369–386. Springer,
Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-44381-1 21
KMTZ13. Katz, J., Maurer, U., Tackmann, B., Zikas, V.: Universally composable
synchronous computation. In: Sahai, A. (ed.) TCC 2013. LNCS, vol. 7785,
pp. 477–498. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
642-36594-2 27
PVW08. Peikert, C., Vaikuntanathan, V., Waters, B.: A framework for eﬃcient
and composable oblivious transfer. In: Wagner, D. (ed.) CRYPTO 2008.
LNCS, vol. 5157, pp. 554–571. Springer, Heidelberg (2008). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-540-85174-5 31
RS22. Rachuri, R., Scholl, P.: Le mans: dynamic and ﬂuid MPC for dishonest
majority. In: Dodis, Y., Shrimpton, T. (eds.) CRYPTO 2022, Part I. LNCS,
vol. 13507, pp. 719–749. Springer, Heidelberg (2022). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-031-15802-5 25
SF16. Spini, G., Fehr, S.: Cheater detection in SPDZ multiparty computation.
In: Nascimento, A.C.A., Barreto, P. (eds.) ICITS 2016. LNCS, vol. 10015,
pp. 151–176. Springer, Cham (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
49175-2 8
SSS22. Scholl, P., Simkin, M., Siniscalchi, L.: Multiparty computation with
covert security and public veriﬁability. In: 3rd Conference on Information-
Theoretic Cryptography (2022)
SSY22. Simkin, M., Siniscalchi, L., Yakoubov, S.: On suﬃcient oracles for secure
computation with identiﬁable abort. In: Galdi, C., Jarecki, S. (eds.) Secu-
rity and Cryptography for Networks, SCN 2022. LNCS, vol. 13409, pp. 494–
515. Springer, Cham (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-14791-3
22
WYKW21. Weng, C., Yang, K., Katz, J., Wang, X.: Wolverine: fast, scalable, and
communication-eﬃcient zero-knowledge proofs for boolean and arithmetic
circuits. In: 2021 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, May 2021,
pp. 1074–1091. IEEE Computer Society Press (2021)

