Cryptanalysis of Lattice-Based
Sequentiality Assumptions and Proofs
of Sequential Work
Chris Peikert(B)
and Yi Tang
Computer Science and Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA
cpeikert@umich.edu
Abstract. This work completely breaks the sequentiality assumption
(and broad generalizations thereof) underlying the candidate lattice-
based proof of sequential work (PoSW) recently proposed by Lai and
Malavolta at CRYPTO 2023. In addition, it breaks an essentially identi-
cal variant of the PoSW, which diﬀers from the original in only an arbi-
trary choice that is immaterial to the design and security proof (under
the falsiﬁed assumption). This suggests that whatever security the orig-
inal PoSW may have is fragile, and further motivates the search for a
construction based on a sound lattice-based assumption.
Speciﬁcally, for sequentiality parameter T
and SIS parameters
n, q, m = n log q, the attack on the sequentiality assumption ﬁnds a solu-
tion of quasipolynomial norm m⌈log T ⌉(or norm O (√m)⌈log T ⌉with high
probability) in only logarithmic ˜On,q(log T) depth; this strongly falsiﬁes
the assumption that ﬁnding such a solution requires depth linear in T.
(The ˜O notation hides polylogarithmic factors in the variables appearing
in its subscript.) Alternatively, the attack ﬁnds a solution of polynomial
norm m1/ε in depth ˜On,q(T ε), for any constant ε > 0. Similarly, the
attack on the (slightly modiﬁed) PoSW constructs a valid proof in poly-
logarithmic ˜On,q(log2 T) depth, thus strongly falsifying the expectation
that doing so requires linear sequential work.
1
Introduction
The notion of timed (or timed-release) cryptography was formally introduced
and realized in 1996 by Rivest, Shamir, and Wagner [RSW96], following initial
concepts due to May [May93] and related ideas of Cai, Lipton, Sedgewick, and
Yao [CLSY93]. The general thrust of this area is to devise “puzzles” that require
(roughly) a prespeciﬁed amount of time to solve—even for solvers that have a
large amount of computing power. More precisely, solving the puzzle should be
inherently sequential (i.e., high computation depth) in nature, so that using many
processors in parallel does not lead to any major speedup in ﬁnding a solution,
versus using just one processor. (Of course, using a faster sequential processor
will unavoidably result in a speedup, but the range of available processor speeds
is substantially narrower than the ability to purchase huge numbers of parallel
processors.)
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2024
L. Reyzin and D. Stebila (Eds.): CRYPTO 2024, LNCS 14924, pp. 129–157, 2024.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-68388-6_6

130
C. Peikert and Y. Tang
Several variations on this theme have emerged in the literature. The focus of
this work is on one of the most basic timed primitives, called a proof of sequential
work (PoSW) [MMV13,CP18,AKK+19]. Here the goal is simply to quickly con-
vince a skeptical veriﬁer that a sequential computation of some signiﬁcant desired
length has been performed. In other words, the computation should be inherently
sequential and tunable, but the result of such a computation should be pub-
licly and very quickly veriﬁable. (No secret message is encrypted or decrypted,
however.) Applications of PoSW include anti-spam and denial-of-service mea-
sures [DN92], and reducing the wasteful energy consumption of proof-of-work
blockchains like Bitcoin (because using large-scale parallel computation is of
little marginal beneﬁt).
1.1
(In)Security in a Quantum World
Unfortunately, most prior timed-cryptography constructions will become com-
pletely insecure in the presence of general-purpose quantum computers. This is
because the security of these constructions relies on the conjectured hardness
of problems that are in fact easy for quantum computers. As some of the most
notable examples, the constructions of [RSW96,Pie19,Wes19] rely on the pre-
sumed hardness of factoring integers, but the breakthrough work of Shor [Sho94]
gave an eﬃcient quantum algorithm for this problem. Therefore, quantum com-
puters would be able to completely circumvent the (conjectured) classical sequen-
tiality of these puzzles, and solve them in relatively low quantum depth.
In this light, it is important to ﬁnd constructions of timed cryptography
that are quantum-secure, or “post quantum”—i.e., that can be run on today’s
computers, but are believed to remain secure against attacks by future quan-
tum computers. In other parts of cryptography, the most promising post-
quantum systems are based on lattice problems, particularly short integer solu-
tion (SIS) [Ajt96] and learning with errors (LWE) [Reg05], and their variants.
Over the past two decades, countless eﬃcient and powerful cryptographic con-
cepts have been realized from these lattice foundations.
Yet despite so much progress in general, post-quantum timed cryptography
is still in its infancy, with very few and limited constructions. In particular,
for proofs of sequential work we know of only two types of post-quantum con-
structions: ones in the idealized random-oracle model (or under a closely related
sequential-hashing assumption) [MMV13,CP18], and a very interesting “alge-
braic” proposal by Lai and Malavolta [LM23] from CRYPTO 2023 that is related
to lattices, and does not require random oracles.
As a foundation for their PoSW candidate, Lai and Malavolta introduced a
new SIS-related problem and sequentiality assumption, for which they gave some
credible evidence. Essentially, the problem is to evaluate a long chain of iterated
SIS hash functions, and the assumption is that doing so requires computation
depth roughly proportional to the length of the chain. Their elegant PoSW
protocol works analogously to the factoring-based construction of [Pie19] by
exploiting the homomorphic properties of the SIS hash function, and they proved
its security under the new sequentiality assumption.

Cryptanalysis of Lattice-Based Sequentiality Assumptions
131
1.2
Contributions
Our ﬁrst main contribution is to strongly falsify the lattice-based sequential-
ity assumption proposed in [LM23], and broad generalizations thereof. In a bit
more detail, the conjecture is that ﬁnding a “somewhat short” solution to a cer-
tain regular linear system (corresponding to iterated hash evaluations) requires
nearly linear depth in the sequentiality parameter T; see Sect. 2.3 for details.
For typical parameters, we instead solve this problem in depth only polylogarith-
mic in T. Also, other parameterizations of our attack ﬁnd asymptotically much
shorter solutions in small polynomial depth T ε, for any constant ε > 0. So, tight-
ening the quantitative deﬁnition of “short” oﬀers limited hope for salvaging the
assumption, unless the norm bound is made quite small; see Sect. 1.3 below for
a discussion.
Interestingly, while our attack breaks the assumption underlying the security
proof for the PoSW protocol of [LM23], it does not break the PoSW itself as
originally deﬁned—and so far we have not found an attack that does so. How-
ever, we do manage to break two slight variants of the PoSW from [LM23],
by employing our core techniques in more sophisticated ways (see Fig. 4 for an
illustration). These variants are supported by essentially identical security proofs
(under the same kind of falsiﬁed assumption) as the original PoSW. Indeed, one
of the variants diﬀers from the original in only an arbitrary choice in the core
“folding” operation, so we consider it to be eﬀectively identical to the original.
Our speciﬁc contributions are organized as follows.
– In Sect. 3 we give a suite of very general and modular tools for eﬃciently com-
puting, combining, and using lattice “trapdoors” in low computation depth.
As we showcase in the rest of the paper, these tools can be combined in vari-
ous ways to yield attacks on lattice-based timed cryptography proposals, and
may also be of independent interest for other applications.
– In Sect. 4 we use our tools to give a low-depth recursive attack that strongly
falsiﬁes the sequentiality assumption from [LM23].
– Finally, in Sect. 5 we extend the attack to break two slight variants of the
PoSW protocol from [LM23].
We refer to each individual section for further background and context for the
results and techniques given therein.
1.3
Discussion and Future Work
As noted above, while we have not managed to break the PoSW from [LM23]
exactly as it is written, we did break a variant that diﬀers only in one minor and
arbitrary choice, which has no eﬀect on its underlying assumption or security
proof. This state of aﬀairs suggests that whatever security the original PoSW
may have is quite fragile, and not due to any intentional design choice or tech-
nique in the security proof. Additional ideas might lead to a successful attack
against the original PoSW; alternatively, it might actually be secure, perhaps
with a diﬀerent security proof under some other plausible assumption. We leave
these topics for future work.

132
C. Peikert and Y. Tang
The eﬀectiveness of our attacks hinges on the following key feature of the
assumption and PoSW protocols following [LM23]: solutions are allowed to be
“somewhat short,” even though the “honest” computation generates a “very
short” solution. More speciﬁcally, the norm (in ℓ∞, say) of a solution is allowed to
be quasipolynomial in the sequentiality parameter T, whereas the honestly com-
puted solution has constant ℓ∞norm. The reason for this gap is that in the proto-
col, the honest solution is repeatedly “folded” into one having smaller dimension
but larger norm, so the veriﬁer needs to use more permissive norm checks. (Addi-
tionally, the knowledge extractor in the security proof incurs another quasipoly-
nomial blowup in the norm of its extracted solution, relative to the norm bounds
used by the veriﬁer.)
Our attacks crucially exploit this gap by computing a “somewhat short” solu-
tion of quasipolynomial norm in only polylogarithmic depth polylog(T), or even
a “short” one of some polynomial norm in small polynomial depth T ε, for any
constant ε > 0. However, we do not see how to compute a “very short” solution
having constant ℓ∞norm (like the honestly computed one) in depth sublinear
in T. So, a much weaker version of the sequentiality assumption from [LM23]
corresponding to these parameters, still seems plausible. Constructing a proof
system that quickly proves knowledge of such a short solution is an interesting
and worthwhile open problem.
2
Preliminaries
2.1
Vector and Matrix Norms
For a real vector x and p ≥1, deﬁne its ℓp norm as ∥x∥p := (
i|xi|p)1/p, and
its ℓ∞norm as ∥x∥∞:= maxi|xi|. Observe that the Euclidean norm is simply
the ℓ2 norm. For any n-dimensional vector x and any 1 ≤p ≤r ≤∞, a standard
bound is
∥x∥r ≤∥x∥p ≤∥x∥r · n1/p−1/r ,
where we adopt the convention that a1/∞= 1 for any a > 0. We extend any ℓp
norm ∥·∥p on vectors to matrices X by taking the maximum over its columns xj,
i.e., ∥X∥p := maxj ∥xj∥p.
For matrices it will be convenient to use the operator norm ∥X∥r←p :=
maxy̸=0 ∥Xy∥r / ∥y∥p for p, r ∈[1, ∞]. In words, the operator norm bounds the
factor by which left-multiplication by X can expand norms, going from ℓp to ℓr:
∥X · Y∥r ≤∥X∥r←p · ∥Y∥p .
(1)
It is immediate that ∥XY∥r←p ≤∥X∥r←q · ∥Y∥q←p. For any p, r ∈[1, ∞],
observe that the identity matrix In satisﬁes ∥In∥r←p = max(n1/r−1/p, 1), and in
particular ∥In∥p←p = 1; and for any X ∈Rn×m,
∥X∥r←p ≤n1/r · ∥X∥∞←p ≤n1/r · ∥X∥∞· m1−1/p .
(2)

Cryptanalysis of Lattice-Based Sequentiality Assumptions
133
Random Matrices. For tighter bounds, it is convenient in some cases to rely on
standard results from random matrix theory; see, e.g., [Ver12]. For example, if
X ∈Rm×m is a random matrix with independent columns drawn from subgaus-
sian distributions (which may vary from column to column), then it will satisfy
∥X∥2←2 = O(√m) except with probability 2−Ω(m). (We refer to [Ver12] for the
deﬁnition of subgaussian, which we do not need in this work.) For simplicity,
we simply say “high probability” to represent 1 −2−Ω(m). Observe that by the
union bound, any T = 2o(m) events that individually occur with high probability
will also all occur with high probability; we often implicitly use this fact in our
high-probability statements.
Block-Wise Norms. For some of our purposes it will be important to have ﬁner-
grained bounds on the (operator) norms of the row blocks of a vector or matrix.
Let ∥·∥be a norm on vectors or matrices, such as the ones deﬁned above. When X
is seen as being made up of row blocks Xi (whose deﬁnition will always be
clear from context), we take ∥X∥to be the column vector of norms ∥Xi∥, i.e.,
∥X∥:= (∥Xi∥)i. For vectors of norms having the same dimension, we use the
partial ordering given by a ≤b if ai ≤bi for all i. So, for any matrices X, Y
where now X is seen as being made up of row blocks (but Y is not), Eq. (1) still
holds, but now both sides are vectors (and ∥Y∥p is a scalar).
2.2
Computational Model
For simplicity, when describing and analyzing our attacks we mainly use the
following abstract arithmetic-circuit model, with a focus on circuit depth. Each
wire has “type” either Z or Zq (for some ﬁxed integer q), which is the set of
its possible values.1 The set of available gates is: addition with arbitrary fan-
in, where all input and output wires have the same type; multiplication with
fan-in two, where the output wire has type Zq if either input does, and type Z
otherwise; and “(bit) decomposition,” which maps from Zq to Zℓfor ℓ= ⌈log2 q⌉
(see Sect. 2.3 below for further details). In particular, multiplication of matrices
of any size (each over Z or Zq) can be implemented by a polynomial-size, depth-
two arithmetic circuit, by computing each row-column inner product in parallel.
As is typical, to deal with varying input and output sizes we consider families
of circuits, which are parameterized by the input size(s) and possibly some other
values, which will always be clear from context. Every circuit family in this
work is implicitly logspace uniform, i.e., there is a logspace Turing machine that
outputs the circuit description given its parameters (in unary). In particular, the
circuits can be computed in polylogarithmic depth, and their size is polynomial.
(Logspace uniformity is widely seen as the most appropriate one for complexity
classes deﬁned by polylogarithmic depth.)
Any circuit family in our arithmetic model can be compiled (in uniform
logspace) to, e.g., the standard model of Boolean circuits with bounded fan-in,
1 In our instantiations, the set of possible values for any Z-wire will be a subset of
Z ∩[−q/2, q/2), so we can alternatively consider having just Zq-wires.

134
C. Peikert and Y. Tang
with multiplicative depth overhead that is logarithmic in the maximum fan-in,
and polylogarithmic in q. The former overhead comes from the fan-in of addition
gates, and the latter comes from implementing integer and modular arithmetic
using Boolean operations on binary representations. (In this representation, the
decomposition gate becomes a null operation.)
2.3
Sequentiality Assumption
Here we recall the lattice-based candidate sequentiality assumption recently pro-
posed by Lai and Malavolta [LM23] (with some slight diﬀerences in the notation).
This assumption was used as the foundation for a candidate proof of sequential
work (PoSW); see Sect. 5 for further details.
Let q be a positive integer modulus and g ∈Zℓ
q be a suitable “gadget”
vector; for concreteness, we use the standard powers-of-two gadget deﬁned by
gt =

1, 2, 4, . . . , 2ℓ−1
for ℓ= ⌈log2 q⌉, but all of our results easily adapt to
other choices of gadgets (see [MP12] for further details). Let g−1 : Zq →Zℓbe
the corresponding “(bit) decomposition” function: g−1(u) is binary and hence
“short,” and ⟨g, g−1(u)⟩= gt · g−1(u) = u for any u ∈Zq. Finally, extend the
gadget and its decomposition operation to work on matrices (including vectors)
as follows: for any positive integer n, let Gn := In ⊗gt ∈Zn×nℓ
q
denote the
block-wise application of gt to each ℓ-dimensional column block, and let G−1
n (·)
denote the entry-wise application of g−1 on any matrix U having n rows, so that
Gn · G−1
n (U) = U.
For dimensions n and m = nℓ, matrix ¯A ∈Zn×m
q
, vector u0 ∈Zn
q , and
sequentiality parameter T, Lai and Malavolta [LM23] consider the following
linear system, where G = Gn ∈Zn×m
q
:2
⎛
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎝
G
¯A G
¯A ...
... G
¯A G
⎞
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎠



¯AT ∈ZT n×T m
q
·
⎛
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎝
x1
x2
...
xT
⎞
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎠
  
x∈ZT m
=
⎛
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎝
u0
0
...
0
0
⎞
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎠
∈ZT n
q
.
(3)
2 For convenience, we have made a slight but immaterial tweak to the system appear-
ing in [LM23], by dropping the ¯A matrix in the bottom-right block (that appears
below our bottom-right G matrix) and dropping the bottom-most block uT on the
right-hand side (below our zero blocks). It is easy to see that the two systems are
equivalent.
In addition, [LM23] considers a more compact and “algebraically structured” ver-
sion of the system over a certain polynomial ring, where each d-by-d block of ¯A is
the (structured) multiplication matrix of a random ring element. Our attack works
for arbitrary ¯A, so for generality we adopt the above presentation. For simplicity, we
adopt a typical instantiation where d = Ω(n), though we note that all our attacks
also work for any d = nΩ(1), at the cost of O(1)- and (logO(1) T)-factor larger depths
in Sects. 4 and 5, respectively .

Cryptanalysis of Lattice-Based Sequentiality Assumptions
135
As the foundation of their PoSW candidate, they pose the following sequen-
tiality assumption. (They actually give a general family of assumptions with vari-
ous parameters, but in this work we mainly focus on the instantiation underlying
the PoSW.)
Conjecture 1. For suﬃciently large q, given uniformly random ( ¯A, u0), comput-
ing a “somewhat short” solution x ∈ZT m to Eq. (3)—speciﬁcally, one hav-
ing ℓ∞norm ∥x∥∞≤(Cn)2 log T for a certain constant C > 0—requires depth
(1 −o(1)) · T.3
Notice that a “very short” binary solution, which has ℓ∞norm ∥x∥∞≤1,
can be computed in depth proportional to T, as x1 = G−1
n (u0) ∈Zm and then
xi = −G−1
n ( ¯Axi−1) ∈Zm for i = 2, . . . , T. This works because
¯Axi−1 + Gxi = ¯Axi−1 −¯Axi−1 = 0 .
The reason for the gap between the “very short” bound obtained by the
above computation, versus the “somewhat short” bound in the assumption, is
the O (n)2 log T “slack factor” in the proof of sequential work from [LM23]. More
speciﬁcally, the honest prover can use a “very short” solution to convince the
veriﬁer, but the knowledge extractor can extract only a “somewhat short” solu-
tion from any (possibly malicious) prover that manages to convince the veriﬁer.
Looking ahead, the attacks we give in Sect. 4 crucially exploit this gap, using
a low-depth computation to ﬁnd a solution that is signiﬁcantly longer than the
“very short” one, but still below the “somewhat short” threshold.
3
Attack Framework
Here we develop a suite of general tools that can be combined in various ways
to yield attacks on sequentiality assumptions and proofs of sequential work.
3.1
Gadget Trapdoors
We ﬁrst recall from [MP12] the notion of a (gadget) trapdoor for a matrix A ∈
ZN×W
q
, for any dimensions N, W. This is any “short” matrix R ∈ZW ×M, where
M = Nℓ, for which
AR = GN = IN ⊗gt ∈ZN×M
q
.
(4)
More precisely, R should have suitably bounded operator norm ∥R∥r←p for
whatever p, r are most appropriate for the application. For example, when
bounds on the Euclidean ℓ2 norm are desired, the spectral norm ∥R∥2←2 is
usually most useful. In this work we will also frequently use the ℓ∞norm, and
3 More speciﬁcally, the base of the exponential is γ = 2d, where again d = Ω(n) is the
dimension of the structured blocks of ¯A. Naturally, one can consider other norms as
well, like the Euclidean ℓ2 norm.

136
C. Peikert and Y. Tang
also ﬁner-grained block-wise norm bounds, as deﬁned in Sect. 2. Observe that GN
itself has IM as a trapdoor.
Using such a trapdoor, it is easy to compute, in low depth, a comparably
short solution x ∈ZW to Ax = u, for any syndrome u ∈ZN
q : simply let
x = R · G−1
N (u). This works because both R and G−1
N (u) are short, and
Ax = AR · G−1
N (u) = GN · G−1
N (u) = u .
Recall that G−1
N
applies g−1 to each entry of u independently, so x can be
computed in depth O(1). And because G−1
N (u) is binary, for any r ∈[1, ∞] we
have that x satisﬁes the (potentially block-wise) norm bound
∥x∥r ≤∥R∥r←∞.
(5)
For example, by Eq. (2) this is at most W 1/r · ∥R∥∞· M, but tighter bounds
may be available in speciﬁc circumstances.
Subspace Trapdoors. More generally, for some relations (including the speciﬁc
one from [LM23]) it suﬃces, and will yield better bounds, to have a limited
trapdoor with respect to just the top s rows for some s ≪N, which we call an s-
subspace trapdoor.4 For convenience of usage later on, we allow s to be arbitrary,
including s > N. An s-subspace trapdoor of A is a short matrix R ∈ZW ×sℓfor
which
AR = GN,sℓ:= IN,s ⊗gt ∈ZN×sℓ
q
,
(6)
where Ia,b is the a-by-b matrix whose diagonal entries are 1 and all other entries
are 0; equivalently, it is obtained by padding Imin(a,b) with zeros on the right
or the bottom, as appropriate. So, ∥Ia,b∥r←p =
Imin(a,b)

r←p. Notice that the
gadget matrix GN itself has the matrix IM,sℓas an s-subspace trapdoor.
Similarly, we deﬁne the “left zero-padded” matrices
IN,[r]s :=

0N,min(r,s) IN,s−min(r,s)

and
GN,[rℓ]sℓ:= IN,[r]s ⊗gt .
Then observe that IN,[0]s = IN,s and IN0+N1,s =
IN0,
s
IN1,[N0]s

, and similarly for
GN0+N1,[rℓ]sℓ.
Deﬁnition 1 (s-admissible vector).
For a positive integer s, a vector u ∈
ZN
q is s-admissible if all its entries below the ﬁrst min(s, N) are zero.
Using an s-subspace trapdoor R for A, for any s-admissible syndrome u ∈
ZN
q , it is easy to compute, in depth O(1), a solution to Ax = u that satisﬁes the
norm bound in Eq. (5). Let us := Is,N · u ∈Zs
q be the truncation or padding by
zeros (as appropriate) of u; observe that IN,s · us = u because u is s-admissible.
Take x = R · G−1
s (us) ∈ZW . Then we have that, as needed,
Ax = GN,sℓ· G−1
s (us) = IN,s · us = u .
4 This deﬁnition and the associated techniques naturally generalize to any particular
set of rows, or even to any subspace of the column space.

Cryptanalysis of Lattice-Based Sequentiality Assumptions
137
3.2
Trapdoor Combiners
The core idea underlying our attacks is to recursively compute, in fairly low
depth, a trapdoor for the block-triangular matrix of the linear system in ques-
tion, using trapdoors for sub-matrices of the system. This trapdoor can then be
used to ﬁnd a short solution for any desired syndrome, as described above. In
this section we give a variety of low-depth, non-recursive combiner algorithms
for constructing trapdoors and ﬁnding short solutions using sub-trapdoors. Sec-
tions 4 and 5 then give parallel recursive “driver” algorithms that use these
combiners for speciﬁc attacks.
The base case is where the system’s matrix is simply the gadget matrix Gn
for some (typically small) n—which trivially has the identity matrix Inℓas a
trapdoor—or some other matrix having a known trapdoor. For the recursive
case, suppose that the system’s matrix A has N = N0 + N1 rows and block
lower-triangular form
A =

A0
W A1

,
(7)
where A0 and A1 respectively have N0 and N1 rows; typically, one would have
N0 ≈N1. Note that the matrix ¯AT from the system in Eq. (3) has this form,
where A0 = A1 = ¯AT/2 for even T (and similarly for odd T) and W is all zeros
except in its upper-rightmost n-by-m block.
As an initial result, we show in the following lemma how to get a trapdoor
for A by combining individual trapdoors for A0, A1. (We actually will not use
the lemma as stated here in this work.)
Lemma 1. Let A have the form given in Eq. (7). There is a depth-O(1) arith-
metic circuit CombTrap that, given A and a trapdoor Ri (having Mi = Niℓ
columns) for each Ai, outputs a trapdoor R (having M = Nℓcolumns) for A
satisfying for all p, r ∈[1, ∞] the block-wise bound
∥R∥r←p ≤

∥R0∥r←p
∥R1∥r←p · (M 1−1/p
0
· M 1/p
1
+ 1)

(8)
Moreover, for p = 2, the bound holds with O(
√
M) in place of (M 1−1/p
0
·M 1/p
1
+1),
with high probability.
Proof. Observe that
A ·
R0
R1

=
 GN0
WR0 GN1

.
Therefore, a trapdoor R for A is
R =
R0
R1
  IM0
R′
IM1

=
 R0
R1R′ R1

where R′ = G−1
N1(−WR0) ∈ZM1×M0 .
(9)

138
C. Peikert and Y. Tang
This is because
AR =
 GN0
WR0 GN1
 IM0
R′ IM1

=

GN0
WR0 −WR0 GN1

= GN .
Note that R can be computed (given R0, R1, W) in depth O(1) in our model
(see Sect. 2.2), by ﬁrst computing WR0, then R′, then R1R′.
For the norm bound, ﬁrst observe that R′ ∈ZM1×M0 has binary entries, so
∥R′∥∞≤1. From Eq. (9), and sub-additivity and transitivity of the operator
norm, we get the block-wise bound
∥R∥r←p ≤
∥R0∥r←p
∥R1∥r←p · (∥R′∥p←p + 1)

.
The bound ∥R′∥p←p ≤M 1−1/p
0
· M 1/p
1
follows from Eq. (2). Moreover, if we use
a randomized, subgaussian variant of g−1, we get that ∥R′∥2←2 = O(
√
M) with
high probability.
⊓⊔
Subspace Trapdoors. To attack the speciﬁc relation from [LM23] (see Eq.
(3)), because the syndrome is n-admissible it suﬃces to compute an n-subspace
trapdoor, regardless of how large N = Tn is. This can be done by a simple opti-
mization of the above approach, which yields much better matrix-norm bounds,
and somewhat better computation-depth bounds (for models with bounded fan-
in).
Deﬁnition 2 (s-admissible matrix).
For a positive integer s, we say that
a matrix A having the form given in Eq. (7) is s-admissible if all the columns
of W are s-admissible vectors (Deﬁnition 1), i.e., all their entries below the ﬁrst
min(s, N1) are zero.
More generally (looking ahead to Sect. 3.2), for positive integers s1, . . . , sk−1,
we say that a matrix A having the form given in Eq. (13) below is (s1, . . . , sk−1)-
admissible if all the columns of all the Wi,j are si-admissible vectors. When
s1 = · · · = sk−1 = s, for brevity we typically just say that such a matrix is
s-admissible.
For example, observe that the matrix ¯AT from [LM23] (see Eq. (3)) is n-
admissible.
For s-admissible matrices, we generalize Lemma 1 as follows.5 To simplify
the statement, the reader may take s and all the si to be equal, and at most N0
and N1, which is the only parameterization we use in this work.
Lemma 2. Let s, s0, s1 be positive integers such that s0 ≥min(N0, s) and s1 ≥
min(N1, s −N0), and let A have the form given in Eq. (7) and be s1-admissible.
There is a depth-O(1) arithmetic circuit CombTrap that, given input A and an
si-subspace trapdoor Ri (having siℓcolumns) for each Ai, outputs an s-subspace
5 As with subspace trapdoors themselves, this modiﬁcation naturally generalizes to
any linear subspace of the column space.

Cryptanalysis of Lattice-Based Sequentiality Assumptions
139
trapdoor R (having sℓcolumns) for A satisfying for all p, r ∈[1, ∞] the block-
wise bound
∥R∥r←p ≤

∥R0∥r←p
∥R1∥r←p · s1−1/p · s1/p
1
· ℓ

,
(10)
and for p = 2, the bound holds with O(

max(s, s1)ℓ) in place of s1−1/p · s1/p
1
· ℓ,
with high probability.
More generally, the above claim holds with the following changes:
– s, s0, s1, . . . , sk−1 are positive integers such that si ≥min(Ni, s −
j<i Nj)
for all i, and A has the form given in Eq. (13) below and is (s1, . . . , sk−1)-
admissible;
– the arithmetic circuit depth is O(k);
– the block-wise norm bound on ∥R∥r←p has ∥R0∥r←p for block 0 and ∥Ri∥r←p·
s1−1/p · s1/p
i
· ℓfor every block i > 0, and for p = 2, factor O(

max(s, si)ℓ)
in place of s1−1/p · s1/p
i
· ℓ.
For clarity, we sometimes include the s and si parameters, or just s when they
all are equal, as a subscript to CombTrap. We point out that unlike the bound (8)
in Lemma 1, the matrix norm bound (10) in Lemma 2 does not have an additive
+1 term, due to a diﬀerence in how the subspace trapdoor is constructed.
Proof. For simplicity of exposition, we prove the special case k = 2 in full detail,
and describe the straightforward generalization to arbitrary k in Sect. 3.2 below.
The CombTrap algorithm works as follows:
1. Express GN,sℓ=
GN0,
sℓ
GN1,[N0ℓ]sℓ

.
2. Let ˜R0 be the truncation or zero-padding (as appropriate) of R0 to sℓ
columns, i.e., ˜R0 = R0 · Is0ℓ,sℓ.
3. Let Ws1 and Hs1 respectively be the truncations or zero-paddings (as appro-
priate) of W and GN1,[N0ℓ]sℓto s1 rows, i.e., Ws1
= Is1,N1 · W and
Hs1 = Is1,N1 · GN1,[N0ℓ]sℓ= Gs1,[N0ℓ]sℓ.
4. Output
R =
R0
R1
 Is0ℓ,sℓ
R′

=
 ˜R0
R1R′

where R′ = G−1
s1 (Hs1 −Ws1 ˜R0) ∈Zs1ℓ×sℓ.
(11)
We ﬁrst prove correctness, i.e., that the above output R is an s-subspace
trapdoor of A. For the top block, we have that
A0 ˜R0 = A0R0 · Is0ℓ,sℓ= (IN0,s0 ⊗gt) · (Is0,s ⊗Iℓ,ℓ) = IN0,s ⊗gt = GN0,sℓ,
where the penultimate equality follows from the mixed-product property and
the fact that s0 ≥min(N0, s). For the bottom block, ﬁrst observe that the
columns of GN,sℓare min(N, s)-admissible, and hence the columns of GN1,[N0ℓ]sℓ
are s1-admissible, since s1 ≥min(N1, s −N0) = min(N, s) −N0. Because the

140
C. Peikert and Y. Tang
columns of W are also s1-admissible, we have that IN1,s1 · Hs1 = GN1,[N0ℓ]sℓ
and IN1,s1 · Ws1 = W. Then the correctness of the bottom block can be veriﬁed
by the following calculation, similar to the one in the proof of Lemma 1:
A1R1·R′ = GN1,s1ℓ·G−1
s1 (Hs1 −Ws1 ˜R0) = IN1,s1 ·(Hs1 −Ws1 ˜R0) = GN1,[N0ℓ]sℓ−W ˜R0 .
Finally, the depth bound of O(1) holds by inspection, and bounds on ∥R′∥p←p
analogous to the ones in the proof of Lemma 1 hold, with s1ℓin place of M1
and sℓin place of M0.
⊓⊔
Remark 1. By setting s = N and si = Ni, we can recover Lemma 1 as a special
case of Lemma 2, though with a worse guaranteed norm bound. (For p = 2, the
high-probability bounds match.) However, it is possible to reﬁne the bound in
Lemma 2 to match the one in Lemma 1, using the following factor in place of
s1−1/p · s1/p
1
· ℓ:

min(N0, s)1−1/p · s1/p
1
· ℓ+ sign(max(s −N0, 0))

.
This factor can be obtained by inspecting more carefully the structure of Hs1 −
Ws1 ˜R0: for s > N0, Hs1 = Gs1,[N0ℓ]sℓhas a submatrix Gs1,(s−N0)ℓon the
right and ˜R0 has zero-padding for these columns, and then for this submatrix,
G−1
s1 (Gs1,(s−N0)ℓ) = Is1ℓ,(s−N0)ℓ.
Combining Solver. Here we describe a slightly optimized solution ﬁnder,
which is important for our attack on the PoSW protocol with its original norm
bounds (see Sect. 5). Instead of building a full trapdoor from sub-trapdoors and
then using it to ﬁnd a comparably short solution for a desired syndrome, we
can instead directly use the sub-trapdoors to get a somewhat shorter solution.
Essentially, this optimization corresponds to solving the system “slightly hon-
estly,” where we sequentially compute a solution one block at a time, using the
sub-trapdoors to compute each block of the solution in low depth. Comparing
the combination of Eqs. (5) and (10) above with Eq. (12) below, this method
yields better block-wise norm bounds for (say) the ℓ∞norm by at least an sℓ
factor for an s-subspace trapdoor. (Here as in Lemma 2, the reader may take all
the si to be equal and at most N0 and N1, which is the only parameterization
we will use in this work.)
Lemma 3. Let s0, s1 be positive integers, let A have the form given in Eq.
(7) and be s1-admissible, and let u =
u0
u1

∈ZN
q
be a syndrome where
each ui ∈ZNi
q
and is si-admissible. There is a depth-O(1) arithmetic circuit
CombSolve that, given A, u, and an si-subspace trapdoor Ri (having siℓcolumns)
for each Ai, outputs a solution to Ax = u satisfying for any p, r ∈[1, ∞] the
block-wise norm bound
∥x∥r ≤

∥R0∥r←p · (s0ℓ)1/p
∥R1∥r←p · (s1ℓ)1/p

.
(12)

Cryptanalysis of Lattice-Based Sequentiality Assumptions
141
More generally, the above claim holds with the following changes:
– s0, s1, . . . , sk−1 are positive integers, A has the form given in Eq. (13) below
and is (s1, . . . , sk−1)-admissible, and u = (ui)k−1
i=0 ∈ZN
q
and each ui is si-
admissible;
– the arithmetic circuit depth is O(k);
– the block-wise norm bound on ∥x∥r has ∥Ri∥r←p · (siℓ)1/p for every block
i ≥0.
Proof. As in the proof of Lemma 2, we prove the special case k = 2 in full detail,
and describe the immediate generalization to arbitrary k in Sect. 3.2.
For our purposes in Sect. 5.3 it is convenient to deﬁne CombSolve in terms
of a “helper” function CombSolveHelper that has a slightly diﬀerent interface.
Given:
– A and an initial solution block x0 that is meant to satisfy A0x0 = u0,
– the remaining syndrome u1 ∈ZN1
q , and
– an s1-subspace trapdoor R1 for A1 (so R0 is not needed),
it outputs a full solution x =
x0
x1

to Ax = u, by computing a solution to
A1x1 = u′
1 := u1 −Wx0, namely, x1 = R1 · G−1
s1 (Is1,N1 · u′
1). Note that x1 is
correct because R1 is an s1-subspace trapdoor for A1, and u1 and the columns
of W are s1-admissible. By inspection, the depth of CombSolveHelper is O(1).
We
now
deﬁne
CombSolve.
It
computes
the
initial
solution
block
as
x0
=
R0 · G−1
s0 (Is0,N0 · u0),
and
then
outputs
the
full
solution
CombSolveHelper(A, x0, u1, R1). The correctness of x0 (i.e., that A0x0 = u0)
follows from the hypotheses that R0 is an s0-subspace trapdoor for A0, and
that u0 is s0-admissible. Observe that the output is computed in depth O(1),
and satisﬁes ∥xi∥r ≤∥Ri∥r←p · (siℓ)1/p because the output of G−1
si is binary. ⊓⊔
Larger Arity. We now describe how all of the above easily generalizes to the
case where A can be split into larger numbers of blocks, as claimed in Lem-
mas 2 and 3. This will be needed for our attacks on PoSW variants in Sect. 5.
Speciﬁcally, suppose that for some k ≥2, the matrix A has the form
A =
⎛
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎝
A0
W1,0
A1
...
...
...
Wk−1,0 Wk−1,1 · · · Ak−1
⎞
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎠,
(13)
where Ai has Ni rows.
The claimed generalization of CombTrap from Lemma 2 is as follows. It can be
veriﬁed that under the hypotheses of Lemma 2, if Ri is an si-subspace trapdoor
(having siℓcolumns) for Ai, then an s-subspace trapdoor for A is

142
C. Peikert and Y. Tang
R =
⎛
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎝
R0
R1
...
Rk−1
⎞
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎠
⎛
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎝
Is0ℓ,sℓ
R′
1
...
R′
k−1
⎞
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎠=
⎛
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎝
˜R0
˜R1
...
˜Rk−1
⎞
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎠,
(14)
where letting N ′
i′ = 
i<i′ Ni, we express
GN,sℓ=
⎛
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎝
GN0,[N′
0ℓ]sℓ
GN1,[N′
1ℓ]sℓ
...
GNk−1,[N′
k−1ℓ]sℓ
⎞
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎠
and set
Hsi;i = Isi,Ni · GNi,[N′
iℓ]sℓ= Gsi,[N′
iℓ]sℓ,
Wsi;i,j = Isi,Ni · Wi,j ,
R′
i = G−1
si
⎛
⎝Hsi;i −

j<i
Wsi;i,j · ˜Rj
⎞
⎠.
(15)
The matrices R′
j and ˜Rj can be computed in k sequential stages for j = 0, . . . , k−
1, accumulating the Wsi;i,j · ˜Rj terms in parallel over all i > j in the jth stage.
So, R can be computed in arithmetic depth O(k). The claimed block-wise matrix
norm bound on R follows immediately from operator-norm bounds on the binary
matrices R′
i, as in the proof of Lemma 2.
The optimized solver CombSolve from Lemma 3 generalizes in a very simi-
lar way. Namely, the “helper” function CombSolveHelper sequentially computes
solution blocks
xi = Ri · G−1
si
⎛
⎝Isi,Ni · ui −

j<i
Wsi;i,j · xj
⎞
⎠
for i = 1, . . . , k −1, where the summations are accumulated in parallel in each
stage.
4
Attack on the Assumption
Here we use the tools from Sect. 3 to give a recursive attack on the sequential-
ity assumption underlying the PoSW from [LM23] (see Sect. 2.3). Our ultimate
result in this respect is as follows.
Theorem 1 (Attack on the sequentiality assumption). Let ¯A ∈Zn×m
q
,
T and k ∈[2, T] be positive integers, and ¯AT be the matrix given in Eq. (3).

Cryptanalysis of Lattice-Based Sequentiality Assumptions
143
Given ¯A, T, and k, an n-subspace trapdoor ¯RT for ¯AT satisfying the follow-
ing (scalar) norm bound for any p, r ∈[1, ∞] can be computed by a depth-
˜On,q(k logk T) Boolean circuit:
 ¯RT

r←p ≤

k1/r · m
⌈logk T ⌉
· ∥Im∥r←p .
Moreover, for p = 2 and T = 2o(m), the bound holds with √m in place of m in
the factor on the left, with high probability.
As a result, a solution x to Eq. (3) satisfying the following (scalar) norm
bound for any p ∈[1, ∞] can be computed by a depth- ˜On,q(k logk T) Boolean
circuit:
∥x∥p ≤

k1/p · m
⌈logk T ⌉
· m1/p ,
and for p = 2 and T = 2o(m) the bound holds with √m in place of m in the
factor on the left, with high probability.
We prove this theorem below as a corollary of a much more general setup
and attack. As a couple of examples, we can get the following parameterizations
of Theorem 1:
– For k = 2, in depth just ˜On,q(log T) we get a solution having ℓ∞norm
bounded by m⌈log2 T ⌉, or ℓ2 norm (and hence ℓ∞norm as well) bounded
by (2m)(⌈log2 T ⌉+1)/2 with high probability.
– By setting k ≈T ε for an arbitrarily small constant ε > 0, in depth ˜On,q(T ε)
we get a solution of just polynomially bounded ℓ∞norm m1/ε.
Regarding the the assumption made in [LM23] (Conjecture 1), under the
(very mild) condition q = 2o(n) and hence m = o(n2), the ℓ∞norm of our
attack’s solution is less than the bound of Θ (n)2 log2 T from the assumption.
So, in a typical parameterization where T ≫n (or even just log T = logΩ(1) n)
and log q = ˜On,T (1) = ˜OT (1), the attack’s polylogarithmic ˜OT (1) depth falsiﬁes
(even a major weakening of) the assumption, which posits that ﬁnding such a
solution requires linear depth (1−o(1))·T (or in weaker form, polynomial depth
T ε for some constant ε > 0).
General Attack. Our attack applies to a broad generalization of the system
in Eq. (3), namely, any one in which the matrix is block lower-triangular and
has “gadget” matrices G (or any other matrices having known trapdoors) as
the diagonal blocks. For simplicity of presentation, throughout this section and
Sect. 5, our general attack algorithms assume that the system’s matrix A is
implicitly given in block form following Eq.(7) (or more generally, Eq. (13)), and
similarly for its component Ai matrices, recursively. Then, an attack against a
speciﬁc assumption or protocol is obtained as an instantiation of the general
attack, by specifying a recursive block structure for the proposal in question.
Deﬁnition 3 (Recursively s-admissible).
For a positive integer s, a
matrix A is recursively s-admissible if A = Gn for some n (the base case), or if

144
C. Peikert and Y. Tang
it has the form given in Eq. (7) (or more generally, Eq. (13)), it is s-admissible,
and all its Ai submatrices are recursively s-admissible.
For example, notice that the matrix ¯AT from Eq. (3) is recursively n-
admissible for any choice of arity k ∈[2, T], with a recursive block structure
of depth ⌈logk T⌉.
In the rest of this section, we deﬁne and analyze a simple recursive “driver”
RecTrap of the trapdoor combiner CombTrap from Lemma 2; see Fig. 1 for its
formal deﬁnition. Then we show that a straightforward instantiation of this
driver yields Theorem 1 as corollary.
RecTraps(A)
if A = Gn : return Inℓ,sℓ
foreach i in parallel : Ri = RecTraps(Ai)
return CombTraps(A, [Ri]i)
Fig. 1. Algorithm that computes a subspace trapdoor for any recursively s-admissible
matrix A.
Lemma 4. Let A be a recursively s-admissible matrix that recursively has the
form given in Eq. (13) for some arity k and recursion depth at most d (where
d = 0 is the base case). There is a depth-O(kd) arithmetic circuit RecTraps that,
given A, computes an s-subspace trapdoor R for A satisfying for any p, r ∈[1, ∞]
the (scalar) norm bound
∥R∥r←p ≤

k1/r · sℓ
d
· ∥Isℓ∥r←p .
Moreover, for p = 2 and kd = 2o(sℓ), the bound holds with
√
sℓin place of sℓ
in the factor on the left, with high probability. In particular, for r = ∞we have
that ∥R∥∞←p ≤(sℓ)d, and ∥R∥∞←2 ≤(sℓ)d/2 with high probability.
Proof. At each level of the recursion, by Lemma 2, CombTrap has arithmetic
depth O(k). Hence the overall arithmetic depth of RecTraps(A) is O(kd).
For the operator norm of R, again by Lemma 2, we have the recurrence
∥R∥r←p ≤

∥R0∥r←p
∥R1∥r←p · sℓ
...
∥Rk−1∥r←p · sℓ

r
≤k1/r · max
i
∥Ri∥r←p · sℓ.
For p = 2, the recurrence holds with
√
sℓin place of sℓ, with high probability.
The base case of this recurrence is ∥Inℓ,sℓ∥r←p ≤∥Isℓ∥r←p, and the recursion
has depth at most d. This yields the claimed bound on ∥R∥r←p.
⊓⊔

Cryptanalysis of Lattice-Based Sequentiality Assumptions
145
Proof of Theorem 1. Recall that the matrix ¯AT from Eq. (3) is recursively n-
admissible for any choice of arity k ∈[2, T], with a corresponding depth of
d = ⌈logk T⌉. The bound on
 ¯RT

r←p then follows immediately from Lemma
4 and the fact that m = nℓ. The lemma also says that the arithmetic circuit
computing ¯RT has depth O(kd) = O(k logk T) in our model (see Sect. 2.2).
For compiling the arithmetic circuit to a Boolean circuit, observe that the
main computations in RecTrap are the CombTrap calls, and in the latter (see
Eqs. (14) and (15)), the fan-in of the addition gates is at most nℓ= O(n log q):
the computation of Ri · R′
i uses inner products of dimension siℓ= nℓ, and for
the computation of Wn;i,j · ˜Rj, by the structure of ¯AT , all but the rightmost nℓ
columns of Wn;i,j are zero. Hence the Boolean circuit has depth ˜On,q(k logk T),
as claimed.
For the particular solution x, we use the subspace-trapdoor solver (see
Sect. 3.1), letting x = ¯RT · G−1
n (u0). Then
∥x∥p ≤
 ¯RT

p←p ·
G−1
n (u0)

p ≤

k1/p · m
⌈logk T ⌉
· m1/p .⊓⊔
Remark 2 (Relation to preprocessing attack). We note that [LM23, Section 3.2]
describes a preprocessing attack on a variant of the assumption from Sect. 2.3 in
which ¯A is ﬁxed in advance. (Recall that in the actual proposed assumption, ¯A
is sampled as part of the instance.) This attack uses depth at least T during the
preprocessing, but arithmetic depth only O(1) once a desired right-hand side of
Eq. (3) is decided.
In the language of our attack, the preprocessing can be seen as na¨ıvely com-
puting a (very short) n-subspace trapdoor for ¯AT in large depth, by just hon-
estly computing a solution for each column of GT n,nℓ. Our attack exponentially
improves on the depth (but with a worse norm) by recursively computing an n-
subspace trapdoor from such a trapdoor for a multiplicatively smaller value of T
(instead of using honest evaluations). This falsiﬁes the assumption underlying
the PoSW protocol from [LM23], without using any preprocessing.
5
Attacks on Proofs of Sequential Work
Lai and Malavolta [LM23] also gave a candidate proof of sequential work (PoSW)
protocol and proved its security based on the sequentiality assumption stated
in Sect. 2.3. While the attack from Sect. 4 strongly falsiﬁes the assumption, and
thus renders the security proof vacuous, it does not immediately follow that the
PoSW itself is broken. Indeed, the attack as stated does not break the protocol,
because it produces a solution vector whose components have much larger norms
than the “honestly computed” ones, so running the (honest) prover with this
vector would not yield short enough component vectors to convince the veriﬁer.
In this section we give attacks that use the tools from Sect. 3 in a more
sophisticated way, to break two PoSWs that are very similar (but not quite
identical) to the one given in [LM23]; see Fig. 2 for the formal deﬁnition. Both
variants tweak the core “folding” operation to multiply the veriﬁer’s random

146
C. Peikert and Y. Tang
Prover( ¯A, T, u0, {ui}i∈[T ], {xi}i∈[T ])
if T = 1 :
send x1
return
T ′ = (T −1)/2
send xT ′+1
receive c
u′
i = c · ui + ui+T ′+1
x′
i = c · xi + xi+T ′+1
Prover( ¯A, T ′, u′
0, {u′
i}i∈[T ′], {x′
i}i∈[T ′])
Veriﬁer( ¯A ∈Zn×nℓ
q
, T, u0, uT ∈Zn
q , β)
if T = 1 :
receive x1
return [∥x1∥∞≤β
∧Gx1 = u0 ∧−¯Ax1 = u1]
T ′ = (T −1)/2
receive xT ′+1
if ∥xT ′+1∥∞> β : return 0
send random c with |c| ≤γ
u′
0 = c · u0 + (−¯AxT ′+1)
u′
T ′ = c · GxT ′+1 + uT
return Veriﬁer( ¯A, T ′, u′
0, u′
T ′, 2 γ′ · β)
Fig. 2. The core algorithms of the PoSW from [LM23], with
boxed
modiﬁcations.
For simplicity, we give the code only for T of the form T = 2t −1. The original PoSW
applies the challenge factor c to the second term in each sum (instead of the ﬁrst), and
it uses γ′ = γ := Ω(n).
challenge by the ﬁrst, rather than the second, half of the prover’s solution vector.
In the design of the protocol the choice is arbitrary, since the analysis and security
proof apply equally well to either version, but the choice seems to have signiﬁcant
implications for attacks, as we explain below. In addition, in our ﬁrst variant
protocol, the veriﬁer checks the prover’s responses using somewhat relaxed norm
bounds (which are polynomially related to the original ones). Our second variant
uses the original norm bounds from [LM23]; the only change is the tweaked
folding operation.
The rest of this section is organized as follows. In Sect. 5.1 we describe some of
the challenges that arise in attacking the PoSW protocol of [LM23]. In Sect. 5.2
we break the ﬁrst variant protocol using the simple RecTrap algorithm from
Sect. 4, but with a slightly diﬀerent recursive block decomposition of the sys-
tem’s matrix. Then in Sect. 5.3 we break the second variant using a much more
sophisticated recursive strategy.
5.1
Challenges in Attacking PoSWs
We start by describing some of the additional challenges that arise in attacking
the PoSW protocol of [LM23], which motivate our protocol tweaks and enhanced
attacks. See Fig. 2 for a formal deﬁnition of the protocol, with our tweaks high-
lighted.
Structure of the PoSW. In the PoSW, the honest prover computes a short solu-
tion x to Eq. (3), then engages in an interactive public-coin protocol to convince

Cryptanalysis of Lattice-Based Sequentiality Assumptions
147
the veriﬁer that it knows such a solution. (The protocol can be made non-
interactive in the usual way via the Fiat–Shamir transform.) To do this, it uses
the veriﬁer’s small random challenge to linearly “fold” the ﬁrst and second halves
of x together, which yields a somewhat longer solution of half the dimension,
then recursively proves knowledge of this folded solution.
More precisely, the prover ﬁrst announces uT = −¯AxT (or alternatively,
announces xT and has the veriﬁer compute uT itself) as its claimed result of the
sequential computation. Then it gives a proof of knowledge of its solution x to
Eq. (3): it announces x(T +1)/2 (assume that T is odd for simplicity), which the
veriﬁer checks is short enough, and the veriﬁer announces a small random chal-
lenge c.6 Observe that the remaining halves of x form two solutions to reduced-
dimension instances of Eq. (3), with known right-hand sides of the appropriate
form. So, the prover linearly combines these solutions using c, and recursively
proves knowledge of the resulting (somewhat longer) solution in the same man-
ner, until the dimension is small enough to simply reveal and check the solution.
Note that with each successive stage of the recursion, the veriﬁer must apply
a more relaxed norm check on the prover’s announced value, because folding
increases the norm of the solution by some ﬁxed factor (independent of T).
The Diﬃculty. The key challenge in attacking the PoSW seems to be as follows:
(1) the prover must ﬁrst announce some uT to the veriﬁer, so (2) the prover can
know at most one short solution for whatever value it announces, and (3) the
only way we see to convince the veriﬁer is by knowing a solution whose middle
component x(T +1)/2, along with all subsequent middle components under the
recursive folding, are nearly as short as what the honest prover would compute.
We elaborate on each of these points next.
The announced value of uT represents the claimed result of the sequential
computation that the prover supposedly performed to get a solution to Eq. (3).
It is straightforward to show that computing distinct short solutions, for any
ﬁxed and possibly adversarially chosen right-hand side, is at least as hard as
solving the corresponding SIS problem for the random matrix ¯A. So, under the
standard assumption that SIS is intractable (see, e.g., [Ajt96,MR04]), once an
eﬃcient prover (of any depth) reveals some uT , it can know at most one short
solution for it. The same goes for the later stages of the protocol with lower-
dimensional instances of Eq. (3), where the ﬁrst and last components of the
right-hand side are determined by the previous stages.7
6 As mentioned before, [LM23] considers an “algebraically structured” version of the
system Eq. (3) over a certain commutative polynomial ring, and the challenge c is
a ring element. In our treatment, we actually need to model the challenge c as a
matrix, and measure its shortness by some suitable operator norm. The norm bound
on c used in [LM23] translates to γ = 2d = Ω(n) in our setting; see the latter part
of Footnote 2. Moreover, because the ring is commutative, c commutes with other
matrix factors, and in particular with ¯A. For simplicity, we still write c as a scalar,
and we give more details about treating c as a matrix in the analysis below.
7 This state of aﬀairs is quite diﬀerent from the context of the attack from Sect. 4,
where the adversary is not bound to any particular right-hand side of Eq. (3), and
knows short solutions to many diﬀerent right-hand sides via its trapdoor.

148
C. Peikert and Y. Tang
With these constraints, the only way we see to convince the veriﬁer is by
proceeding exactly as the honest (speciﬁed) prover would, using a single known
solution. This means that the middle component of the solution vector, and all
subsequent middle components under recursive folding, need to satisfy the ver-
iﬁer’s norm checks. In particular, it seems that whichever half of the solution
is multiplied by the veriﬁer’s challenge needs to be nearly as short as what the
honest prover would compute. The PoSW from [LM23] multiplies by the second
half, and we do not see a way to generate such a short second half in depth signif-
icantly less than T. This is because our techniques yield trapdoors and solutions
whose second halves are larger than their ﬁrst halves by some polynomial factor.
Again we stress that the attack from Sect. 4 achieves low depth by exploiting
the moderately large slack factor: the solution is merely “somewhat short” in
its second half (and fourth quarter, etc.), but not nearly as short as what the
honest computation produces.
5.2
Breaking a Relaxed PoSW
The above discussion motivates a natural alternative folding operation: multiply
the veriﬁer’s random challenge c by the ﬁrst, rather than the second, half of the
solution. That is, instead of folding a solution x into the lower-dimensional one
xﬁrst + c · xlast, use c · xﬁrst + xlast. The security proof from [LM23] (modiﬁed in
the obvious way) holds equally well for this option, because the two halves are
treated symmetrically.8
Interestingly, this trivial modiﬁcation makes the PoSW breakable using our
attack framework. In this subsection, as a warmup we break this tweaked pro-
tocol with a veriﬁer that also uses somewhat relaxed norm checks. The precise
statement is as follows; we prove it below after introducing the deﬁnitions and
tools needed to do so.
Theorem 2 (Attack on the PoSW with relaxed parameters). There is
a depth- ˜On,q(log T) malicious prover (modeled as a Boolean circuit) that, given
any ¯A ∈Zn×m
q
, u0 ∈Zn
q , and positive integer T, convinces the veriﬁer in the
modiﬁed PoSW, where in the folding operation the challenge is multiplied by the
ﬁrst half of the solution, and parameters γ′ ≥(γ + m)/2 and β ≥m are used.
The attack simply uses the RecTrap algorithm from Sect. 4, but with a slightly
diﬀerent recursive block decomposition of the matrix ¯AT . Essentially, this works
because the xlast constructed by the attack is a small factor longer than xﬁrst, so
the two summands c·xﬁrst, xlast in the tweaked folding operation are more “bal-
anced,” hence their sum passes the appropriately relaxed norm checks. However,
we also need to ensure that the revealed middle component is suﬃciently short,
at every stage of the recursion. For this we impose a suitable recursive block
structure on ¯AT , which treats the middle components specially, as base cases.
8 As far as we can tell, in [LM23] the speciﬁc choice of folding operation between these
two options was made arbitrarily.

Cryptanalysis of Lattice-Based Sequentiality Assumptions
149
Deﬁnition 4 (PoSW topology). A block vector or matrix has PoSW topol-
ogy of depth d and base rows n if for the base case d = 0 it has n rows, and if
for d > 0 it has three row blocks, respectively having PoSW topologies of depths
d −1, 0, d −1 (all with base rows n).
Observe that by induction, a vector or matrix having PoSW topology has
T = 2d+1 −1 row blocks, of n rows each. In particular, for such T the recursively
n-admissible matrix (Deﬁnition 3) ¯AT from the system in Eq. (3) can be given
this PoSW topology. Note that ¯AT , like any recursively s-admissible matrix
having PoSW topology with base rows n, is simply Gn in the base case d = 0.
Remark 3. In Deﬁnition 4, for simplicity of presentation, we deﬁne the PoSW
topology only for matrices having exactly T = 2d+1 −1 row blocks. Our attacks,
analyses, and results in Sects. 5.2 and 5.3 rely on the PoSW topology, and con-
sequently work for T of this form. However, it is easy to generalize the recursive
deﬁnition to work for an even number of blocks, following what is done in the
original deﬁnition of the PoSW of [LM23]. This deﬁnes a PoSW topology for any
positive integer T, and our attacks, analyses, and results immediately generalize
analogously.
To aid in the analysis, we deﬁne the following operations on a vector or
matrix M having PoSW topology of depth d > 0 and base rows n, whose three
row blocks are denoted M0, M1, M2. The middle block, and folding operation
with multiplier c, are respectively deﬁned as
mid(M) := M1 =

0n,N ′ In 0n,N ′
· M
(16)
foldc(M) := cM0 + M2 =

cIN′ 0N′,n IN′
· M ,
(17)
where N ′ = T ′n for T ′ = (T −1)/2 = 2d −1 is the number of rows in each
of M0, M2. For convenience, for M having depth d = 0 also deﬁne mid(M) :=
M = In · M.
Observe that for a vector or matrix having a PoSW topology, its correspond-
ing recursive block-wise vector of (vector or matrix) norms also has a PoSW
topology of the same depth, with one row in the base case. In particular, if
|c| ≤γ, then by the triangle inequality,
∥foldc(M)∥r←p ≤foldγ(∥M∥r←p) .
(18)
This can be applied iteratively: for any ci with |ci| ≤γ for all 1 ≤i ≤τ where
τ ≤d, we have that
∥foldcτ (· · · foldc1(M) · · · )∥r←p ≤fold(τ)
γ (∥M∥r←p) .
(19)
More generally, our treatment (which treats polynomial-ring elements as vec-
tors and matrices) actually models the multiplier c as a square matrix having the
same dimension as the base-case number of rows n. Then the folding is deﬁned
as
foldc(M) :=
IT ′ ⊗c 0N′,n IN′
· M ,
and for any c with ∥c∥r←r ≤γ, Eq. (18) still holds, and similarly for its iterated
version Eq. (19).

150
C. Peikert and Y. Tang
Lemma 5. Let A be a recursively s-admissible matrix with PoSW topology of
depth d and base rows n. There is a depth-O(d) arithmetic circuit RecTraps that,
given A, computes an s-subspace trapdoor R for A satisfying the following bound
for any p, r ∈[1, ∞] and any integer τ ∈[0, d]:
mid(fold(τ)
γ (∥R∥r←p)) ≤(γ + sℓ)τ · ∥Inℓ,sℓ∥r←p · sℓ.
Proof. At each level of the recursion, by Lemma 2, CombTrap has arithmetic
depth O(1). Hence the overall arithmetic depth of RecTraps(A) is O(d).
For the operator norm of R, again by Lemma 2, we have the recurrence
∥R∥r←p ≤
⎛
⎝
∥R0∥r←p
∥Inℓ,sℓ∥r←p · sℓ
∥R2∥r←p · sℓ
⎞
⎠,
and the base case d = 0 has ∥R∥r←p = ∥Inℓ,sℓ∥r←p. Hence ∥R∥r←p ≤pf(d), a
block vector recursively deﬁned as
pf(d) :=
⎛
⎝
pf(d −1)
∥Inℓ,sℓ∥r←p · sℓ
pf(d −1) · sℓ
⎞
⎠,
(20)
with base case pf(0) = ∥Inℓ,sℓ∥r←p. Therefore,
foldγ(pf(d)) =
γI 0 I
·
⎛
⎝
pf(d −1)
∥Inℓ,sℓ∥r←p · sℓ
pf(d −1) · sℓ
⎞
⎠= (γ + sℓ) · pf(d −1) .
By iterating, for any integer τ ∈[0, d], we get that fold(τ)
γ (pf(d)) = (γ + sℓ)τ ·
pf(d −τ). Therefore, as desired,
mid(fold(τ)
γ (∥R∥r←p)) ≤mid(fold(τ)
γ (pf(d)))
= (γ + sℓ)τ · mid(pf(d −τ))
≤(γ + sℓ)τ · ∥Inℓ,sℓ∥r←p · sℓ.
(Note that mid(pf(d−τ)) = ∥Inℓ,sℓ∥r←p in the base case τ = d, but ∥Inℓ,sℓ∥r←p·sℓ
is still a valid upper bound.)
⊓⊔
Proof of Theorem 2. For simplicity of presentation we assume that T has the form
T = 2d+1 −1, as required by Deﬁnition 4; for other T, we can use a generalized
PoSW topology as described in Remark 3.
The matrix ¯AT from Eq. (3) is recursively n-admissible with PoSW topology
of depth d = ⌊log2 T⌋and base rows n. The malicious prover computes an n-
subspace trapdoor ¯RT of ¯AT following Lemma 5, uses the subspace-trapdoor
solver (see Sect. 3.1) to get a solution x = ¯RT · G−1
n (u0) to Eq. (3), and then
proceeds in the same way as the honest prover. By Lemma 5, this prover has

Cryptanalysis of Lattice-Based Sequentiality Assumptions
151
arithmetic depth O(d) = O(log T). Then similar to the proof of Theorem 1,
by the structure of ¯AT , this arithmetic circuit compiles to a Boolean circuit of
depth ˜On,q(log T).
Note that acting as the honest prover using a valid solution (of any norm)
ensures that the veriﬁer’s “linear” checks are satisﬁed, so it just remains to
conﬁrm that the veriﬁer’s norm checks are also satisﬁed. By Lemma 5 again, for
all τ ∈[0, d] the block-wise norm of the solution x satisﬁes
mid(fold(τ)
γ (∥x∥∞)) ≤mid(fold(τ)
γ (∥R∥∞←∞)) · 1 ≤(γ + m)τ · m ≤(2γ′)τ · β .
So, considering Eq. (19) and the fact that the veriﬁer’s challenges c all satisfy
|c| ≤γ (or more precisely, ∥c∥∞←∞≤γ), the veriﬁer’s norm checks on the folded
solution x itself are indeed satisﬁed.
⊓⊔
5.3
Breaking a PoSW with the Original Norm Bounds
The prior subsection breaks the PoSW with tweaked folding operation and
relaxed norm bounds. Here we break a PoSW whose only modiﬁcation
from [LM23] is the tweaked folding operation (the norm bounds remain
unchanged). This attack uses much more sophisticated recursive strategy, which
we summarize below, and present formally in Fig. 3; see also Fig. 4 for a visual
illustration. Our main result in this subsection is as follows; as in the previous
subsection, we prove it below after introducing the needed tools.
Theorem 3 (Attack on the PoSW with original norm bounds).
For
log q = o(n), there is a depth- ˜On,q(log2 T) malicious prover (modeled as Boolean
circuit) that, given any ¯A ∈Zn×m
q
, u0 ∈Zn
q , and positive integer T, convinces
the veriﬁer in the modiﬁed PoSW where in the folding operation the challenge
is multiplied by the ﬁrst half of the solution, and the original parameters γ′ = γ
and β = 1 are used.
Recall that our previous attack breaks the PoSW with parameters γ′ =
(γ +m)/2 and β = m (Theorem 2). Our goal in the improved attack is to handle
γ′ = γ and β = 1. At a high level, we improve the parameter β by applying
the “direct solution” technique from Sect. 3.2, and we improve γ′ by designing a
more sophisticated block decomposition of ¯AT (in a ﬁner-grained version of the
PoSW topology).
Obtaining β = 1. To see the idea behind our new strategy, consider the concrete
example of (the core recursive part of) the PoSW for T = 15. In the ﬁrst round,
the prover sends the “middle” component x8 to the veriﬁer, which checks that
∥x8∥∞≤β. Our previous attack constructs the solution as x = ¯RT · G−1
n (u0),
where ¯RT is a n-subspace trapdoor for ¯AT generated by RecTrap. As a result,
our previous attack can ensure only that ∥x8∥∞≤∥R8∥∞←∞(where R8 is
the corresponding row block of ¯RT ), and by construction, this is bounded by
∥I∥∞←∞· m = m, which is why we took β = m.

152
C. Peikert and Y. Tang
The factor m above comes from Lemma 2, but notice that in its “direct
solution” counterpart Lemma 3, the expansion factor is m1/∞= 1 instead of m.
So, if x is constructed using CombSolve instead, we would have ∥x8∥∞≤1,
which allows us to take β = 1, at least for the ﬁrst round. To get an attack that
works for every round, we apply this idea recursively, solving for the ﬁrst half
of x recursively, and in parallel computing suitable trapdoor(s) for the second-
half block. We then use CombSolveHelper to construct an entire solution from
these pieces. See the deﬁnition of RecSolvevec in Fig. 3 for the precise deﬁnition;
also see Fig. 4 for an illustration, where the solid lines represent recursive calls
to RecSolvevec (ignore the other types of lines for now).
Obtaining γ′ = γ. Now let us resume the example. After the norm check in
the ﬁrst round, the prover receives a challenge c1 from the veriﬁer. Then in
the second round, the prover sends x′
4 = c1 · x4 + x12 to the veriﬁer, which
tests whether ∥x′
4∥∞≤2γ′ · β. Once the above “direct solution” idea is applied
recursively, we can similarly get ∥x4∥∞≤1. However, the ∥x12∥∞term in the
second half still picks up an m factor when the trapdoor for the second-half block
is constructed using CombTrap. This results in no improvement to the parameter
γ′ = (γ + m)/2.
Our key new idea here is to partly “sequentialize” the solving within the
second half: instead of constructing a combined, longer trapdoor for the entire
second-half block from trapdoors for its sub-blocks, we just directly use those
trapdoors; see RecSolvelist in Fig. 3. (Recall that CombSolveHelper works for an
arbitrary block decomposition.) Speciﬁcally, the sub-blocks in the second-half
block are the third-quarter block, a singleton block Gn, and the last-quarter
block. We then simply use this list of trapdoors in CombSolveHelper to get the
ﬁnal solution x. This leads to ∥x12∥∞≤1, thus allowing the use of γ′ = γ in
the second round.
Continuing the example, we see that the “(2τ + 1)/2τ+1-points” (e.g., the
“3/4-point” x12 we just considered, the “5/8-point” x10, etc.) are the only places
where we need to apply the “sequentialization” idea in order to obtain γ′ = γ.
Trapdoors for other groups of sub-blocks can be safely combined into one trap-
door without violating the norm bounds; see RecSolvetrap in Fig. 3. Importantly,
therefore, the lengths of the lists of trapdoors remain linear in the recursion
depth d, so the depths of the sequential solving steps remain low. See Fig. 4 for
an illustration of the entire example, where the thick and thin dashed lines repre-
sent recursive calls to RecSolvelist and RecSolvetrap, respectively; note that these
recursive calls alternate in a way that exactly traces the “(2τ + 1)/2τ+1-points.”
Altogether, combining the “direct solution” and the “sequentialization” idea, we
manage to get our new attack to work for the original parameters γ′ = γ and
β = 1.
Lemma 6. Suppose that sℓ≤γ2. Let A be a recursively s-admissible matrix
with PoSW topology of depth d and base rows n, and let u be an s-admissible
vector. There is a depth-O(d2) arithmetic circuit RecSolvevec
s
that, given A, com-
putes a solution to Ax = u satisfying the following bound for any p ∈[1, ∞] and
any integer τ ∈[0, d]:

Cryptanalysis of Lattice-Based Sequentiality Assumptions
153
RecSolvevec
s
(A, u)
if A = Gn : return CombSolve(A, u, [Im,sℓ])
in parallel:
x0 = RecSolvevec
s
(A0, u0)
L = RecSolvelist
s (A2)
return CombSolveHelper(A, x0, u′, [Im,sℓ; L])
RecSolvetrap
s
(A)
if A = Gn : return Im,sℓ
in parallel:
R0 = RecSolvetrap
s
(A0)
L = RecSolvelist
s (A2)
return CombTraps(A, [R0, Im,sℓ; L])
RecSolvelist
s (A)
if A = Gn : return [Im,sℓ]
in parallel:
L = RecSolvelist
s (A0)
R2 = RecSolvetrap
s
(A2)
return [L; Im,sℓ, R2]
Fig. 3. Algorithm RecSolvevec that solves Ax = u for any recursively s-admissible
matrix A having PoSW topology with base rows n, and any s-admissible syndrome u.
It parses u =
 u0
u′

where u0 ∈ZN0
q
for N0 = (N −n)/2. Throughout, m = nℓ.
mid(fold(τ)
γ (∥x∥p)) ≤(2γ)τ · (sℓ)1/p .
In particular, for p = ∞, we have that mid(fold(τ)
γ (∥x∥∞)) ≤(2γ)τ.
Remark 4. In Lemma 6 we assume that sℓ≤γ2. It is possible to relax the
assumption to sℓ≤γ2+a for any integer a ≥0, at the cost of increasing the
arithmetic depth from O(d2) to O(d2+a). Note that for any polynomial relation-
ship between sℓand γ, this a will be a constant and so the extra factor da in
the arithmetic depth will be polynomial in the depth of the PoSW topology.
The generalization is to introduce a parameter α in RecSolvelist and
form RecSolvelist[α]. RecSolvevec and RecSolvetrap now make recursive calls
to RecSolvelist[a] instead. For α = 0, RecSolvelist[0] makes recursive calls to
RecSolvelist[0] and RecSolvetrap as before, while for α > 0, RecSolvelist[α] makes
recursive calls to RecSolvelist[α] and RecSolvelist[α−1] instead (and combines by
simply concatenating the returned lists, still with an Im,sℓin the middle).
Proof. Again we assume that T has the form T = 2d+1 −1; the case of general T
can be handled as described in Remark 3.
We ﬁrst bound the arithmetic depth of RecSolve, in any of its three “modes”
(vec, trap, list), when given a recursively s-admissible matrix having PoSW topol-
ogy of depth d. It makes two parallel recursive calls (with varying modes)
on submatrices that follow the PoSW topology (with the same base case),
so its total recursion depth is d. Then because RecSolvetrap returns a single
trapdoor, RecSolvelist returns a list having O(d) trapdoors. So, by Lemmas 2

154
C. Peikert and Y. Tang
and 3, the arithmetic depth of the non-recursive work in RecSolve—namely,
CombSolveHelper or CombTrap—is O(d), and hence the overall arithmetic depth
is O(d2).
For the (block-wise) norm of x, we analyze more generally the norms of the
outputs of RecSolve{vec,list,trap} when given an arbitrary recursively s-admissible
matrix with PoSW topology. For an (arbitrary) vector x returned by RecSolvevec,
again by Lemma 3, we have the recurrence
∥x∥p ≤
⎛
⎜
⎜
⎝
∥x0∥p
∥Im,sℓ∥p←p · (sℓ)1/p
 ˆR2

p←p · (sℓ)1/p
⎞
⎟
⎟
⎠=
⎛
⎜
⎝
∥x0∥p
(sℓ)1/p
 ˆR2

p←p · (sℓ)1/p
⎞
⎟
⎠,
and the base case is ∥x∥p =
G−1
s (⋆)

p ≤(sℓ)1/p. Here ˆR2 is the block matrix
whose row blocks are the vertically stacked s-subspace trapdoors (which, to
recall, all have sℓcolumns) from the list L returned by RecSolvelist; we similarly
stack other outputs of RecSolvelist below. For a trapdoor stack ˆR returned by
RecSolvelist, straightforwardly,
 ˆR

p←p =
⎛
⎜
⎝
 ˆR0

p←p
∥Im,sℓ∥p←p
∥R2∥p←p
⎞
⎟
⎠=
⎛
⎜
⎝
 ˆR0

p←p
1
∥R2∥p←p
⎞
⎟
⎠;
and for a trapdoor R returned by RecSolvetrap, again by Lemma 2, we have that
∥R∥p←p ≤
⎛
⎜
⎝
∥R0∥p←p
∥Im,sℓ∥p←p · sℓ
 ˆR2

p←p · sℓ
⎞
⎟
⎠=
⎛
⎜
⎝
∥R0∥p←p
sℓ
 ˆR2

p←p · sℓ
⎞
⎟
⎠≤
⎛
⎜
⎝
∥R0∥p←p
γ2
 ˆR2

p←p · γ2
⎞
⎟
⎠,
where for the last inequality we use the hypothesis sℓ≤γ2. Both
 ˆR

p←p and
∥R∥p←p have the same base case ∥Im,sℓ∥p←p = 1.
So, following the recurrence pattern, when the input to RecSolve has PoSW
topology of depth d, we have that

∥R∥p←p
 ˆR

p←p ∥x∥p

is bounded from
above by the matrix
pftrap(d) pflist(d) pfvec(d)
, which is recursively deﬁned as
follows:

pftrap(d) pflist(d) pfvec(d)
:=
⎛
⎝
pftrap(d −1)
pflist(d −1) pfvec(d −1)
γ2
1
(sℓ)1/p
pflist(d −1) · γ2 pftrap(d −1) pflist(d −1) · (sℓ)1/p
⎞
⎠.
For convenience, we denote proﬁle(d) :=
pftrap(d) pflist(d) pfvec(d)
. The base
case of the recursion is proﬁle(0) =

1 1 (sℓ)1/p
.

Cryptanalysis of Lattice-Based Sequentiality Assumptions
155
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
x
Fig. 4. An example recursion tree for RecSolvevec on a matrix with PoSW topology of
depth d = 3. Recursive calls to RecSolve in the “modes” vec, list, trap are represented
by solid lines, thick dashed lines, and thin dashed lines, respectively; singleton identity
matrices are marked by thin dotted lines. The thickness of each (thick dashed) line
for a list-mode call roughly depicts the number of returned trapdoors, and the width
of each internal recursion node roughly depicts the amount of sequential work at that
node. Each number i marks the vector/trapdoor corresponding to the block xi in the
solution x.
From these deﬁnitions it can be veriﬁed that
foldγ(proﬁle(d)) =

γI 0 I

·
⎛
⎝
pftrap(d −1)
pflist(d −1) pfvec(d −1)
γ2
1
(sℓ)1/p
pflist(d −1) · γ2 pftrap(d −1) pflist(d −1) · (sℓ)1/p
⎞
⎠
= proﬁle(d −1) ·
⎛
⎝
γ 1
0
γ2 γ (sℓ)1/p
0 0
γ
⎞
⎠.
Hence by iterating, for any τ, we get that
fold(τ)
γ (proﬁle(d)) = proﬁle(d −τ) ·
⎛
⎝
γ 1
0
γ2 γ (sℓ)1/p
0 0
γ
⎞
⎠
τ
.
It can be veriﬁed by induction that this matrix power expands to
⎛
⎝
γ 1
0
γ2 γ (sℓ)1/p
0 0
γ
⎞
⎠
τ
=
⎛
⎝
(2γ)τ−1 · γ
(2γ)τ−1
(2τ−1 −1) · γτ−2 · (sℓ)1/p
(2γ)τ−1 · γ2 (2γ)τ−1 · γ
(2γ)τ−1 · (sℓ)1/p
0
0
γτ
⎞
⎠.

156
C. Peikert and Y. Tang
Then we get, as desired,
mid(fold(τ)
γ (∥x∥p)) ≤mid(fold(τ)
γ (pfvec(d)))
= mid(proﬁle(d −τ)) ·
⎛
⎝
(2τ−1 −1) · γτ−2 · (sℓ)1/p
(2γ)τ−1 · (sℓ)1/p
γτ
⎞
⎠
≤

γ2 1 (sℓ)1/p
·
⎛
⎝
(2τ−1 −1) · γτ−2 · (sℓ)1/p
(2γ)τ−1 · (sℓ)1/p
γτ
⎞
⎠
= 2τ−1(γτ + γτ−1) · (sℓ)1/p
≤(2γ)τ · (sℓ)1/p .
Here note that mid(pf(d −τ)) =

1 1 (sℓ)1/p
in the base case τ = d, but

γ2 1 (sℓ)1/p
is still a valid upper bound.
⊓⊔
Proof of Theorem 3. Because log q = o(n), we have that m = nℓ= o(n2) =
o(γ2), and thus m ≤γ2 holds (for all suﬃciently large n). Recall that the
matrix ¯AT from Eq. (3) is recursively n-admissible with PoSW topology of depth
d = ⌊log2 T⌋and base rows n. The malicious prover computes a solution x to Eq.
(3) following Lemma 6, and then proceeds in the same way as the honest prover.
By Lemma 6, this prover has arithmetic depth O(d2) = O(log2 T). Similarly
to the proof of Theorem 1, by the structure of ¯AT , this compiles to a Boolean
circuit of depth ˜On,q(log2 T).
It remains to conﬁrm that this will satisfy the veriﬁer’s norm checks, and
in particular to analyze the γ-folding of the block-wise norms of the solution x.
Similar to the proof of Theorem 2, by Lemma 6 again, for all τ ∈[0, d] the
block-wise norm of the solution x satisﬁes
mid(fold(τ)
γ (∥x∥∞)) ≤(2γ)τ · 1 ,
so the veriﬁer’s norm checks are indeed satisﬁed with bound (2γ′)τ ·β for param-
eters γ′ = γ and β = 1.
⊓⊔
References
[Ajt96] Ajtai, M.: Generating hard instances of lattice problems. Quaderni di
Matematica 13, 1–32 (2004). Preliminary version in STOC 1996
[AKK+19] Abusalah, H., Kamath, C., Klein, K., Pietrzak, K., Walter, M.: Reversible
proofs of sequential work. In: Ishai, Y., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EUROCRYPT
2019. LNCS, vol. 11477, pp. 277–291. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-030-17656-3 10
[CLSY93] Cai, J., Lipton, R.J., Sedgewick, R., Yao, A.C.: Towards uncheatable bench-
marks. In: Structure in Complexity Theory Conference, pp. 2–11 (1993)

Cryptanalysis of Lattice-Based Sequentiality Assumptions
157
[CP18] Cohen, B., Pietrzak, K.: Simple proofs of sequential work. In: Nielsen, J.B.,
Rijmen, V. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2018. LNCS, vol. 10821, pp. 451–467.
Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-78375-8 15
[DN92] Dwork, C., Naor, M.: Pricing via processing or combatting junk mail. In:
Brickell, E.F. (ed.) CRYPTO 1992. LNCS, vol. 740, pp. 139–147. Springer,
Heidelberg (1993). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48071-4 10
[LM23] Lai, R.W.F., Malavolta, G.: Lattice-based timed cryptography. In: Hand-
schuh, H., Lysyanskaya, A. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO
2023. CRYPTO 2023. LNCS, vol. 14085, pp. 782–804. Springer, Cham
(2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-38554-4 25
[May93] May, T.C.: Timed-release crypto, February 1993. http://cypherpunks.
venona.com/date/1993/02/msg00129.html
[MMV13] Mahmoody, M., Moran, T., Vadhan, S.P.: Publicly veriﬁable proofs of
sequential work. In: Innovations in Theoretical Computer Science (ITCS),
pp. 373–388 (2013)
[MP12] Micciancio, D., Peikert, C.: Trapdoors for lattices: simpler, tighter, faster,
smaller. In: Pointcheval, D., Johansson, T. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2012.
LNCS, vol. 7237, pp. 700–718. Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-642-29011-4 41
[MR04] Micciancio, D., Regev, O.: Worst-case to average-case reductions based on
Gaussian measures. SIAM J. Comput. 37(1), 267–302 (2007). Preliminary
version in FOCS 2004
[Pie19] Pietrzak, K.: Simple veriﬁable delay functions. In: Innovations in Theo-
retical Computer Science Conference (ITCS), volume 124 of LIPIcs, pp.
60:1–60:15 (2019)
[Reg05] Regev, O.: On lattices, learning with errors, random linear codes, and cryp-
tography. J. ACM 56(6), 1–40 (2009). Preliminary version in STOC 2005
[RSW96] Rivest, R.L., Shamir, A., Wagner, D.A.: Time-lock puzzles and timed-
release crypto. Technical report, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, MA, USA (1996)
[Sho94] Shor, P.W.: Polynomial-time algorithms for prime factorization and dis-
crete logarithms on a quantum computer. SIAM J. Comput. 26(5), 1484–
1509 (1997). Preliminary version in FOCS 1994
[Ver12] Vershynin, R.: Introduction to the non-asymptotic analysis of ran-
dom matrices, chapter 5, pp. 210–268. Cambridge University Press,
2012. http://www-personal.umich.edu/∼romanv/papers/non-asymptotic-
rmt-plain.pdf
[Wes19] Wesolowski, B.: Eﬃcient veriﬁable delay functions. J. Cryptol. 33(4), 2113–
2147 (2020). Preliminary version in EUROCRYPT 2019

