Generic and Algebraic Computation
Models: When AGM Proofs Transfer
to the GGM
Joseph Jaeger(B)
and Deep Inder Mohan
School of Cybersecurity and Privacy, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA,
USA
{josephjaeger,dmohan}@gatech.edu
Abstract. The Fuchsbauer, Kiltz, and Loss (Crypto 2018) claim that
(some) hardness results in the algebraic group model imply the same
hardness results in the generic group model was recently called into
question by Katz, Zhang, and Zhou (Asiacrypt 2022). The latter gave
an interpretation of the claim under which it is incorrect. We give an
alternate interpretation under which it is correct, using natural frame-
works for capturing generic and algebraic models for arbitrary algebraic
structures. Most algebraic analyses in the literature can be captured by
our frameworks, making the claim correct for them.
Keywords: Algebraic group model · generic group model
1
Introduction
Since the earliest days of modern cryptography, assumptions about the diﬃculty
of computational tasks on groups have been central to its study [9]. Resultantly,
the relationships between the security of cryptographic schemes and underlying
hard problems for cryptographic groups have been studied in a variety of ways.
In this work we focus on non-standard models of group-based schemes, such as
the generic group models (GGMs) as introduced by Maurer [17] and Shoup [24],1
as well as the more recent algebraic group model (AGM) of Fuchsbauer, Kiltz,
and Loss [13] (FKL).
In diﬀerent ways, these capture the idea that in a suﬃciently strong group,
real-world algorithms performing relevant computations about the group are
likely to be honestly executing the intended operations of the group. In the
AGM, one tracks the group elements X1, . . . Xn given as input to an algorithm.
When the algorithm outputs a group element Y it must additionally provide
an “explanation” explaining how Y was derived from the input elements. The
explanation takes the form of a vector (e1, . . . , en) such that Y = Xe1
1 × Xe2
2 ×
1 Recall that Shoup’s GGM treats each group element as uniquely represented by a
string (chosen either at random or in the “worst-case”). Maurer’s GGM has no unique
representations; group elements are instead referenced using (non-unique) pointers
into a table. In either case, oracles are provided for performing group operations.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2024
L. Reyzin and D. Stebila (Eds.): CRYPTO 2024, LNCS 14924, pp. 14–45, 2024.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-68388-6_2

Generic and Algebraic Computation Models
15
· · · × Xen
n . A reduction can arrange to pass group elements as inputs to the
underlying algorithm such that success in its goal implies the explanation satisﬁes
a polynomial equation, from which the reduction extracts the solution to its
own problem. This polynomial-based methodology is similar to the analysis that
underlies proofs in the GGMs.
The AGM has gained widespread popularity (e.g., the original paper cur-
rently has over 300 citations) and has been used to analyze theoretically inter-
esting and practically relevant protocols. FKL motivated its use as follows.
It is the ﬁrst restricted model of computation covering group-speciﬁc
algorithms yet allowing to derive simple and meaningful security state-
ments. [13, Abstract]
This simplicity is core to our current work. Proofs in the GGM often begin
with somewhat boilerplate steps to replace the “honest” generic group with one
where group elements are represented by polynomials. The proofs eventually
end with another somewhat boilerplate argument about the probability of the
polynomials colliding on random inputs. In some sense, the heart of the proof lies
in showing the desired security reduces to collisions in these polynomials. The
AGM allows one to focus on this heart. The ﬁrst boilerplate step is removed as
the given algorithm’s explanation vector tells us immediately what polynomial
corresponds to its output group elements. The second boilerplate step is removed
because the AGM focuses on modular analysis. These low-level details are instead
covered by assuming and reducing to some underlying security property. So the
AGM allows a simple modular proof. Additionally, FKL showed a “lifting” result
that (under minor conditions) AGM security automatically carries over to the
GGM for free!
Katz, Zhang, and Zhou (KZZ) [26] recently called that claim into question.
They observe ambiguities in the claims of FKL and provide one possible inter-
pretation, which focuses on Shoup’s GGM. They deﬁne a game that is AGM
secure but Shoup GGM insecure, so the lifting result must fail for this interpre-
tation. We emphasize that this result only applied to one speciﬁc interpretation
of what FKL meant in their work.
Our main contribution is a new interpretation under which the lifting result
provably holds. The interpretation is both natural (e.g., matches the informal
language used when discussing the AGM) and useful (many uses of the AGM
are captured by it). It aﬃrms the underlying ideas of FKL while complementing
the interpretations of KZZ by helping reﬁne our understanding of when the
claim holds. Along the way, we also consider and categorize other criticisms and
limitations of the AGM discussed, e.g., by FKL, KZZ, and Zhandry [25].
1.1
Our Contributions
Three Frameworks of Computation. Our primary contribution is deﬁning
three diﬀerent frameworks to express algorithms that compute on groups.2 These
2 In fact, following Mauere [17] we express them more generally such that our frame-
works could capture other computational models of interest [7,12]. For simplicity in
the introduction, we focus only on the traditional group models.

16
J. Jaeger and D. I. Mohan
frameworks act as three lenses for analyzing existing group-based algorithms. We
ultimately establish an equivalence between these frameworks. By being able to
freely switch between our three frameworks, we can appropriately choose the
best-suited framework to analyze any given question.
We brieﬂy intuit one of our three frameworks inspired by programming lan-
guage concepts – the pseudocode framework (Sect. 3). Algorithms are expressed
in this framework as pseudocode for a “typed” programming language. We
assume the existence of standard data types like ⟨int⟩and ⟨bits⟩in the lan-
guage, which may be freely operated on. To impose a restriction for groups, we
deﬁne a special data type ⟨elem⟩for group elements. Variables of this type may
only be used as either inputs to or outputs from a predeﬁned set of functions.
For cyclic groups, think of functions gen, op, eq, encodeσ, and decodeσ. Func-
tion gen() outputs the group generator of type ⟨elem⟩. Function op(X, Y ) takes
two ⟨elem⟩inputs and outputs the ⟨elem⟩variable XY obtained by applying the
group operation. Relation eq(X, Y ) returns a ⟨bit⟩indicating whether the input
⟨elem⟩variables are equal. The encoding function encodeσ(X) maps a ⟨elem⟩
variable to its representation (according to encoding function σ) as a bitstring
⟨bits⟩s. The decoding function decodeσ(s) maps from a ⟨bits⟩variable to the
⟨elem⟩value it represents (according to σ).
Within this framework, we create a natural “hierarchy” of types of algorithms
deﬁned by syntactically restricting what functions an algorithm has access to.
At the lowest level are type-safe algorithms which can use the gen, op, and eq
operations on ⟨elem⟩variables. The next, algebraic, level adds the use of encodeσ
to typecast from ⟨elem⟩to a ⟨bits⟩. All new ⟨elem⟩variables produced would be
derived from the outputs of gen and op, but the algorithms can “see” the group
elements to decide how to produce them. Finally, the highest “unrestricted”
level adds decodeσ to typecast ⟨bits⟩variables to ⟨elem⟩. This level allows an
algorithm to encode all group elements as bits, perform whatever computations
it desires, and then decode the resulting elements back into the desired format.
While it is not immediately obvious, this hierarchy of three diﬀerent syntactic
restrictions to the same computational model captures exactly the algorithms
expected for the Maurer-style “type-safe” generic group model, FKL-style alge-
braic group model, and the standard model of computation. Because gen, op,
and eq are independent of the choice of the encoding function, being restricted
to their use gives a Maurer-style version of being generic. Then access to encodeσ
allows an algorithm to “see” what each group element is, but they are still
restricted from generating ⟨elem⟩outputs that are unrelated to their ⟨elem⟩
inputs by the behavior of gen and op, which gives them the algebraic ﬂavor.
Finally, decodeσ() eﬀectively removes this restriction, thus allowing arbitrary
standard model computation w hen σ is known.
Armed with this framework, we map our interpretation of the algebraic group
model to those of prior works (Sect. 5.4), ﬁnding:
1. The three sets of algorithms are strict subsets of each other, making imme-
diate what their relative computational power is and allowing security argu-
ments to directly apply from higher to lower levels in the hierarchy.

Generic and Algebraic Computation Models
17
2. There is a well-deﬁned notion of when variables “are” group elements, avoiding
ambiguities in FKL’s AGM framework arising from diﬀerent interpretations
of this notion.
3. Where an algorithm falls in the GGM/AGM/SM hierarchy is implicitly deter-
mined once it’s written as per any of our frameworks.
4. The KZZ counterexamples do not apply to our interpretation of the lifting
result (stated in terms of type-safe generic algorithms).
Shoup-style generic group models are captured instead by a semantic change.
In Shoup-style models, algorithms are fully allowed to view and operate on bit-
strings representing the group elements just as in the standard model. So we
consider the same syntactic set of “unrestricted” algorithms but now quantify
over a random or worst-case selection of the group encoding function, giving
“random-representation” and “all-representation” models.3
We ﬁnd there to be a certain philosophic niceness to the fact that all of
these existing models for group-based computation can be captured so cleanly
by simple syntactic distinctions within a shared computation model (plus a clean
semantic distinction for the Shoup-style models). Perhaps this indicates a deeper
truth that they are in some sense “natural” models to study.
Our other frameworks (Sect. 5) swap out the underlying model of computa-
tion but provide similar levels. They are more directly inspired by the “type-safe”
generic group models as deﬁned by Maurer [17] (using oracles that perform group
operations) and Zhandry [25] (using circuits with special group element wires
and gates). Algorithms expressed in the oracle framework are restricted to oper-
ating on group elements via invoking predeﬁned oracles that match the special
⟨elem⟩functions from the pseudocode framework. Group elements are stored
in a hidden table by the oracle and algorithms are given labels of these objects
(i.e., their indices in the table). Algorithms in the circuit framework combine
traditional boolean circuits with special wires for holding group elements. These
wires can only be used with special gates which again match the special ⟨elem⟩
functions. In either case, we obtain the same type-safe, algebraic, unrestricted
hierarchy.
(In)equivalence of the Frameworks. An intended beneﬁt of introducing
these three diﬀerent frameworks (beyond comparison to past representations of
generic group computation) is to be able to hop between them when perform-
ing diﬀerent sorts of analysis, choosing whichever model is most suited to the
job. For example, it is easiest to explicitly express security games, adversaries,
and reductions in the pseudocode framework. The oracle framework is excel-
lent for meta-analysis reliant on tracking information about the group opera-
tions being performed. We can transform oracle-based algorithms by creating
new algorithms that emulate their oracles while tracking whatever information
is of interest.4 However, before we can rigorously hop between frameworks we
3 The standard (and algebraic) model quantiﬁes the encoding function before algo-
rithms are chosen and restrict attention to encodings from which group operations
can be eﬃciently computed. The type-safe model is independent of the encoding.
4 We use this for relating our notion of algebraic with that of FKL.

18
J. Jaeger and D. I. Mohan
must establish whether the three frameworks are as equivalent as they appear
(Sect. 5.3).
Surprisingly they are not! The inequivalence arises due to circuits not being
implicitly able to choose between two diﬀerent execution paths, which is trivial in
the pseudocode or oracle-based frameworks (from if-then statements). We show
this explicitly by observing that a circuit cannot compute mux(X0, X1, b) = Xb
where the Xi are group elements and b is a bit. Thinking of the circuit as a
sort of graph, there will never be any paths from bit wires to element wires
as the two gates producing element outputs do not take bit inputs. However,
such dependence is clearly necessary to compute mux. Zhandry happened to con-
sider a stronger gate set (with a combined group operation and exponentiation
gate) that can compute mux, this indicates that the circuit-based framework is
more brittle than desired. Building from this, we establish that mux is the only
diﬀerence between the frameworks; they are equivalent if mux is computable.
AGM to GGM Lifting Result. Having shown that the frameworks are essen-
tially equivalent we then move to their analysis. The hierarchical nature of the
frameworks makes the FKL lifting result natural (Sect. 6). There is, in fact, little
to say about it as almost all of the properties one needs can be readily extracted
from the presumed existing algebraic group model proof.
Let A be an algebraic algorithm and R a reduction that treats A as a black
box. If R never uses encode or decode (i.e., is type-safe/generic), then the com-
position of R and A will be algebraic (resp. type-safe) if A is. Note that this
is a purely syntactic claim about what the code of the two algorithms includes.
Consequently, showing R works for all algebraic A implies it also necessarily does
so for generic A because in our frameworks all generic algorithms are algebraic.
This framing closely matches how FKL presented their lemma originally. A
crucial fork in the road leading to our diﬀerent interpretation and result than
KZZ is that we have well-deﬁned notions of what variables are group elements
and thus how a type-safe reduction can pass them as input to a not-necessarily-
type-safe adversary. We survey a number of papers that worked in the AGM and
observe that their security games and reductions could ﬁt within our frameworks
and hence the lemma applies. It is straightforward to check if they do using
our pseudocode framework as one simply imposes types on the variables of the
existing algorithms and veriﬁes whether encode or decode are ever being used
to cast between element and non-element values.
1.2
Metacryptography
This work is a focusing on a sort of “metacryptography”. Like KZZ [26], the
focus is not on introducing new protocols, security proofs, or security deﬁni-
tions. Rather, we study the models through which cryptographic analyses are
performed. Metacryptography, in this sense, is of course part of cryptography
and is inherently a fuzzy concept. We nonetheless ﬁnd it a useful concept to men-
tion explicitly as it helps frame the discussion and brings into scope questions
and ideas that otherwise remain invisible.

Generic and Algebraic Computation Models
19
How Models Fall Short. When analyzing cryptographic models we might
broadly categorize the desiderata based on whether they are technical or non-
technical. Non-technical desiderata include how easy are they to understand, how
easy are they to write proofs in (and how likely are those proofs to be incomplete
or erroneous), and how likely are papers using them to get accepted.5
On the technical side, most discussions will fall under soundness and com-
pleteness. As stated in the contrapositive, an issue with completeness is one
where there is some scheme that “should” be secure but cannot be shown to be
so in our model. Examples here include the well-known [13,25,26] observation
that the algebraic group model adds nothing over the standard model for secu-
rity games with no group element outputs and Zhandry’s observation [25] that
various types of primitives cannot be proven secure in the type-safe GGM.
An issue with soundness is one where a scheme should be considered insecure
(e.g., there are known attacks in the standard model) but is deemed secure in
an idealized model. Consider a contrived security notion where an algebraic
algorithm is implicitly given the bit representation of a group element but not
explicitly given the element. Then the adversary is artiﬁcially restricted because
the element can only be output if the adversary can determine an explanation for
it, despite already knowing its bit representation. A standard model adversary
could output it trivially and perhaps use that to win its game.
A related concept of note is what we will call scope creep. Analysis of a model
is performed in a speciﬁc setting. If the setting changes suﬃciently without being
suﬃciently re-evaluated the model may break in unexpected ways. An example
here is the equivalence between the type-safe and random-representation models
shown by Jager and Schwenk [15]. It was proven in a restricted setting and is
often interpreted as “these models are equivalent”. However such equivalence can
fail when the setting of analysis changes to one not originally covered, e.g., multi-
stage games [25] or when inputs depend on the encoding [22]. It is important to
understand the scope in which a result was proven and the underlying technique,
to be able to identify when it no longer applies.
Ambiguous and Illusory Bugs. Let us introduce (again fuzzy) terminol-
ogy for two sorts of “bugs”.6 An ambiguous bug arises when there are multiple
ways to interpret a claim and the veracity thereof varies between the possible
interpretations. The combination of our work and KZZ establishes that FKL’s
lifting result claim is an ambiguous bug. There is a valid interpretation of it (as
identiﬁed by our work), but there are also interpretations by which it fails.
An illusory bug is one which in some sense goes away as soon as it is iden-
tiﬁed and understood. An example here is how the circuit-based model is not
equivalent to the other models if mux is not computable. Zhandry’s [25] model
5 The last is perhaps not as philosophically relevant, but in practice certainly plays a
role in which models are used.
6 We loosely think here of “bug” as a catchall term for any sort of gap, error, omission,
imprecision, etc. in analysis.

20
J. Jaeger and D. I. Mohan
happens to be able to compute mux, but there is no indication that anyone real-
ized this was even a potential gap. It is common for models of oracle-based
type-safe models to give only op and gen as the operation. Were these ported to
the circuit-based setting, mux would be uncomputable.
One may argue that any given ambiguous or illusory bug is not a bug at all.
Perhaps the author had the right idea in mind all along and it was merely the
reader who misinterpreted. Even if identiﬁed and new, such bugs will often be
easily ﬁxable. There is still value in ﬁnding and discussing them. The ambiguous
bug at the intersection of our and KZZ’s work leads to a more detailed study
of precisely in which conditions can algebraic security results be lifted to the
generic setting and a more general exploration of what generic algorithms mean.
Hypothetically, follow-up work to Zhandry could have used his circuit-based
model with only op and gen and thus been unable to compute very simple
functions. Most likely, they’d work at a high level of abstraction implicitly adding
mux without having realized they did so. However, there is always the possibility
that they would perform a low-level proof that gives the “wrong” result when
mux is excluded but in a way that this mux distinction remained hidden.
2
Notation and Preliminaries
If l is a vector, we let li or l[i] denote its i-th component. If X is a list, we
overload notation by letting X also denote the set of elements contained in the
list. For some i, j ∈Z, i ≤j, we denote the set of all values in Z between i and
j inclusive as [i, j], i.e., [i, j] = {i, i + 1, · · · , j}. We let [j] = [1, j]. If S is a set,
then S∗is the set of all ﬁnite tuples of elements in S.
If G is a game that outputs a bit (typically representing a boolean), then Pr[G]
denotes the probability its output is 1. We use ←$ for randomized assignments
(e.g., sampling uniformly from a set) and ←for deterministic assignments.
Groups and Encodings. A group G speciﬁes a set of elements G.S and a
group operation G.op : G.S × G.S →G.S. It is required that the operation is
associative, there exists an identity element, and every element has an inverse.
When G is ﬁxed, we use multiplicative notation so AB = G.op(A, B), A3 =
op(A, op(A, A)), A−1 is the inverse of A, and A0 is the identity element.
We will restrict our attention to cyclic groups with a known generator G.g,
often written as gG, of known order p. In this case, the group is necessarily
isomorphic to the group Z+
p (integers modulo p with the addition operation)
under the isomorphism IG : Zp →G.S deﬁned by a →ga
G. The discrete logarithm
of an element A, written dlogG(A) is the pre-image of A according to this map.
We generally will use capital letters to denote a group element other than the
generator and the corresponding lowercase letter to denote its discrete log.
For computation on a group, we sometimes encode the group elements as
bitstrings. We call an injective function σG : G.S →{0, 1}∗an encoding. We let
σ−1
G
denote its inverse and deﬁne σ−1
G (α) = ⊥if α is not in the range of σG.

Generic and Algebraic Computation Models
21
Then the bitstring representation of A is σG(A). We generally use Greek letters
to denote the bitstring representation of a group element.7
For encodings used in practice, given σG(A) and σG(B) it is possible to
eﬃciently compute σG(AB) and σG(A−1). Additionally, we typically desire that
verifying whether there exists an A ∈G.S such that α = σG(A) should be
eﬃcient. We refer to such encodings as eﬃcient encodings.
Algebraic Group Model. Given G = (G, g, p) as the description of the under-
lying group, FKL provide the following deﬁnition.
Deﬁnition 1 (Algebraic Algorithm [13]). An algorithm Aalg executed in an
algebraic game GG is called algebraic if for all group elements Z that Aalg outputs
(i.e. the elements in bold uppercase letters), it additionally provides the repre-
sentation of Z relative to all previously recorded group elements. That is, if −→
L
is the list of group elements L0, . . . , Lm ∈G that Aalg has received so far (w.l.o.g
L0 = g), then Aalg must also provide a vector −→z such that Z = 
i Lzi
i . We
denote such an output as [Z−
→
z ].
Here the group elements input and output to Aalg are “syntactically distin-
guished” from other inputs and outputs.8 The group elements are thought of
as represented by their bitstring representation according to σG.
3
Pseudocode Framework for Idealized Computation
Our goal is to deﬁne a framework for (Maurer) generic, algebraic, and standard
models of computations as a hierarchy where each model is a literal subset of the
next. We will eventually deﬁne and study the relationship between three such
frameworks (corresponding to three ways prior work has conceptualized Maurer-
style generic groups). In this section, we start with a pseudocode framework
because it is the easiest to write security games and algorithms with. This allows
us to eﬃciently compare our interpretation of FKL [13] to that of KZZ [26].
In Sect. 3.1, we start by deﬁning a notion of the “universe of computation”
which allows our analysis to broadly apply to idealized models of computation
beyond cyclic groups. Then in Sect. 3.2 we formalize our pseudocode framework
and give the intuition for why it captures the desired models of computation (to
be expanded on after we deﬁne the other frameworks in Sect. 5).
3.1
Idealized Models of Computation
We will specify a hierarchy of models of computations based on algebraic struc-
tures, building on the abstract models of computation introduced by Mau-
rer [17]. We ﬁx a set S, a set Π of operations on S (functions of the form
7 We sometimes discuss examples from previous works that do not distinguish between
group elements and the bitstring representation. We then follow the notational con-
vention of the work.
8 Here we are paraphrasing FKL and make no claims about the precise intended
interpretation of this phrase.

22
J. Jaeger and D. I. Mohan
S⊥× S⊥× · · · × S⊥× {0, 1}n →S⊥), a set Σ of relations on S (functions of the
form S⊥× S⊥× · · · × S⊥× {0, 1}n →{0, 1}), and an injection σ : S⊥→{0, 1}∗.
Here we use S⊥to denote S ∪{⊥} where ⊥̸∈S is a new special symbol used to
indicate some form of rejection or failure.
At the lowest level of our hierarchy (formalized precisely later) we consider
the “type-safe generic” model wherein an algorithm can compute on bitstrings
as normal, but can only compute on the elements of S by using the functions in
Π and relations in Σ. The middle level of the hierarchy is the “algebraic” model
that also depends on σ which we think of as specifying how the elements of S
are encoded as bitstrings. At this level, algorithms may also apply σ to elements
of S. However, algebraic algorithms still cannot apply σ−1, so the only way to
construct elements of S is via operations in Π. The highest level of our hierarchy
is the standard model wherein an algorithm is also allowed to use the decoding
function σ−1. The requirement that functions accept ⊥as input is necessary
because we will assume that σ−1 outputs ⊥when given input not in σ’s range.
For compactness of notation we combine S, Π, Σ, and σ as follows.
Deﬁnition 2 (Universe of Computation). A universe (of computation) U
speciﬁes U.S, U.Π, U.Σ, and U.σ with the above syntax and semantics. A partial
universe of computation U leaves U.σ unspeciﬁed.
Consider deﬁning a universe U for performing computations on a cyclic group
G. We would deﬁne U.S = G.S and U.σ = σG. For predicates, it is typical
to give only the equality predicate, so U.Σ = {eq} where eq(A ∈S, B ∈S)
returns a bit indicating whether A = B. There are a number of conventions used
for what functions U.Π should contain. The original type-safe generic group
model of Maurer [17] considered U.Π = {op, const} where op(A ∈S, B ∈S) =
AB and const(a ∈{0, 1}n) = ga
G, interpreting a as an integer (gG denotes
the generator). He noted that in his analysis it often suﬃces to consider the
“closure” Π of Π consisting of all functions that can be computed by Π on some
ﬁxed list of inputs in S. He always gave the generator as input, which we will
instead model as the function gen() = gG. One expects any Π with the same
closure to be basically equivalent. Due to this, other functions have been used
including inv(A ∈S) = A−1, invop(A ∈S, B ∈S, b ∈{0, 1}) = op(A, B2b−1),9
exp(A ∈S, a ∈{0, 1}n) = Aa, expop(A ∈S, B ∈S, a∥b ∈{0, 1}2n) = AaBb,
multi-expop(A1 ∈S, . . . , Am ∈S, a1∥. . . ∥am ∈{0, 1}mn) = 
i Aai
i .
In the description above, we left unspeciﬁed how the functions and relation
act on input ⊥. In general we only ever care about ⊥when it is obtained as the
output of σ−1
G . Moreover, when σG is being thought of as a practically relevant
encoding of a group, one can refrain from computing σ−1
G
on inputs not in the
range of σG because there will be an eﬃcient algorithm for checking if a given
string is in that range which can be used ﬁrst. When it is relevant, we think of
eq as correctly checking equality with ⊥. All functions discussed are deﬁned to
output ⊥if one or more of their inputs are ⊥. It is broadly desirable for it to
be possible to compute the relation is-bot deﬁned by is-bot(A ∈S⊥) = 1 iﬀ
9 Note that B2b−1 ∈{B, B−1}.

Generic and Algebraic Computation Models
23
Operation ⟨elem⟩funcf(⟨elems⟩A, ⟨bits⟩x):
return f(A, x)
Operation ⟨bit⟩relρ(⟨elems⟩A, ⟨bits⟩x):
return ρ(A, x)
Operation ⟨bits⟩encodeσ(⟨elem⟩A):
return σ(A)
Operation ⟨elem⟩decodeσ(⟨bits⟩α):
return σ−1(α)
Fig. 1. Pseudocode operations for type ⟨elem⟩. Here f ∈U.Π, ρ ∈U.Σ, and σ = U.σ.
A = ⊥. One could add is-bot in Σ or emulate it using eq and functions in Π
such as by noting that is-bot(A) = eq(A, op(A, gen())) as long as |G.S| ̸= 1.
Appropriate other choices of U allow capturing generic/algebraic group mod-
els for non-cyclic groups [17], generic/algebraic group action models [12], and
generic/algebraic bilinear group models [7] (among others).
3.2
Pseudocode Computation Framework
For this framework, assume the existence of a typed programming (pseudocode)
language P with pre-existing types including (but not necessarily limited to)
integer ⟨int⟩and bit ⟨bit⟩. Where useful, we assume the existence of “syntactic
sugar” in P to make it easier to express complex algorithms. For instance, we
use the convention that making types plural (e.g., changing ⟨bit⟩→⟨bits⟩) for
any type indicates a vector of elements with that type. We also use a simpliﬁed
syntax to represent data structures, control ﬂow statements, and loops.
Our pseudocode-based framework for group computation extends this pro-
gramming language by adding an additional restricted type ⟨elem⟩for elements
of U.S. We introduce functions funcf for each f ∈Π and the relations relρ for
each ρ ∈Σ that can operate on ⟨elem⟩variables. In addition, there are also spe-
cial functions for mapping our restricted ⟨elem⟩type to the unrestricted ⟨bits⟩
(via the encoding function σ), and vice-versa. No other operations on ⟨elem⟩
are allowed. These operations are shown in Fig. 1. We will use funcΠ and relΣ
as shorthand for all the collection of all operation funcf or relρ.
Our pseudocode framework is as follows.
Deﬁnition 3 (Pseudocode Framework). Fix universe U. Then
– TSAP[U] is the set of pseudocode algorithms that do not use encodeU.σ or
decodeU.σ;
– AAP[U] is the set of pseudocode algorithms that do not use decodeU.σ; and
– SAP[U] is the set of all pseudocode algorithms.
Algorithms in the three sets are, respectively, called type-safe, algebraic, and
standard/ unrestricted algorithms.
Note that the input-output syntax of functions in funcf and relations in
relρ are independent of the choice of σ. So an algorithm in any of the sets can
syntactically be deﬁned given a partial universe of computation. The partial
universe is all that is required for the semantics of a type-safe algorithm to be

24
J. Jaeger and D. I. Mohan
deﬁned. We use the term “type-safe (group) model” to refer to computation by
a type-safe algorithm. Precise measurements of eﬃciency (e.g., should equality
checks have unit cost or zero cost [17,25]) are inessential to our results, so we
treat it informally.
The semantics of algebraic and standard algorithms require U.σ to be ﬁxed.
We use the term “algebraic (group) model” or “standard (group) model” to refer
to computation by an algebraic or standard algorithm, respectively, that was
ﬁxed after an eﬃcient U.σ was quantiﬁed.10 Note that TSAP[U] ⊂AAP[U] ⊂
SAP[U] – they form a hierarchy.
Power of the Language. So far, we have not nailed down any speciﬁcs of the
computational power assumed of the programming language. We could formalize
this by assuming that P is functionally equivalent to the Bellare-Rogaway exam-
ple programming language for code-based games [5, Appendix B, ePrint]. This
will imply that P will be able to express any ﬁnite-time computable function.
For example, the Bellare-Rogaway context-free grammar has a “expressions”
non-terminal exp (with rule exp →bool | int | str | set | array | call) that deﬁnes
the “types” and a non-terminal identiﬁer with a rule for what variable names are
allowed. Suppose we have ﬁxed a universe of computation for cyclic groups with
U.Σ = {eq} and U.Π = {op, gen}. Our extensions to P can be formally modeled
by adding the following rules to the Bellare-Rogaway context-free grammar.
exp
−→elem
elem −→identiﬁer | identiﬁer[str] | gen() | op(elem, elem) | decodeσ(str)
str
−→eq(elem, elem) | encodeσ(elem)
With appropriately deﬁned semantics for this added syntax, this will allow
elements to be assigned to variables (named by identiﬁers), stored in arrays
indexed by (bit)strings, taken as input by functions, and returned by functions.
Intuition Behind Models. Let us give intuition for why these sets corre-
spond to the existing notions of the Maurer generic group model, FKL algebraic
group model, and standard model (when U is deﬁned for a cyclic group). This
will be more formally explored in Sect. 5 after we deﬁne our oracle and circuit
frameworks for the hierarchy of models. We make a few observations about our
framework here and defer a more complete analysis to Sect. 5.3.
We think this notion of the type-safe generic algorithms nicely captures
how some previous work intuitively thinks about Maurer’s GGM. Consider, for
example, how some works [10,13,21–23] make implicit or syntactic distinctions
between values that are group elements or strings. The fact that Zhandry called
10 Shoup-style generic models will change this assumption of how U.σ is quantiﬁed,
either at random or in the worst case. In this setting, it is less confusing to refer to
unrestricted, rather than standard algorithms.

Generic and Algebraic Computation Models
25
Fig. 2. Algorithm B ∈AAP[U] constructed from FKL-style AGM algorithm A
his circuit-based model “The Type-Safe Model” evokes direct comparison to con-
cepts from programming languages. Meier [18] and Ducas [11] explicitly think
about generic models in programming language terms.
The FKL [13] deﬁnition of the AGM requires that when an algorithm A
outputs a group element it must also provide an exponent vector e explaining
how the element could be computed from the group elements given as input. This
algorithm is thought of as being speciﬁed in a typical model of computation (e.g.,
Turing machine or circuit). Its input group elements are represented as bitstrings,
so X would be represented as σG(X).
Given such an A we can construct an “equivalent” B ∈AAP[U] (shown pic-
torially in Fig. 2). It uses encodeU.σ on each of the inputs in ⟨elem⟩X to obtain
their ⟨bits⟩representation, then it internally runs A on these inputs. We are
assuming that A acts only on bitstrings and that our programming language is
powerful enough to perform this internal emulation. When A outputs an explana-
tion vector e (for the element represented by γ), then B uses ⟨elem⟩operations
on X (say, a single multi-expop) to obtain its output ⟨elem⟩Y = 
i Xei
i .
In the other direction, suppose we are given B ∈AAP[U] and want to build
an FKL-style B. It could use bitstring operations on the bitstring representations
of group elements to emulate all of B’s ⟨elem⟩operations. Note that we are using
our assumption that U.σ was ﬁxed before A was deﬁned and is eﬃcient. While
doing so, it can track the explanations of all of B’s type ⟨elem⟩variables. For
example, the operation funcop(X, Y ) results in an element whose explanation is
the component-wise sum of X and Y ’s explanations (assuming X, Y ̸= ⊥).
The standard model example is analogous. Suppose A is a standard algo-
rithm operating on and outputting bitstring representations of elements. Then
B ∈SAP[U] uses encodeU.σ to represent input elements as bitstrings, runs A
internally as an algorithm on these bitstrings, then uses decodeU.σ to cast the
results back into type ⟨elem⟩. In the other direction, a standard algorithm A
(knowing the eﬃcient U.σ) can emulate all of B’s computation.
Examples. The primary beneﬁt of the pseudocode framework (when compared
to the frameworks we will give in Sect. 5) is that it most easily allows specifying

26
J. Jaeger and D. I. Mohan
Game Gscdh
U
(A)
⟨int⟩a, b; ⟨elem⟩A, B, C
a ←$ Z∗
p; A ←ga
G
// funcexp(funcgen(), a)
b ←$ Z∗
p; B ←gb
G
// funcexp(funcgen(), b)
C ←AO(A, B)
return (C = Ab)
// releq(C, funcexp(A, b))
Oracle O(⟨elem⟩X, ⟨elem⟩Y )
return (X = Y b)
// releq(X, funcexp(Y, b))
Game Gdlog
U (A)
⟨int⟩a ←$ Z∗
p
⟨elem⟩A ←ga
G
// funcexp(funcgen(), a)
⟨int⟩a′ ←$ A(A)
return (a = a′)
Fig. 3. Strong CDH and discrete log games expressed in the pseudocode framework
algorithms using easy-to-parse pseudocode. As an example, let U be a universe
of computation for a group G with U.Π ⊇{gen, exp} and U.Σ ⊇{eq}. Then
we deﬁne Strong Computational Diﬃe Hellman (CDH) and Discrete Logarithm
security via the games Gscdh
U
and Gdlog
U
shown in Fig. 3. We use notation like gG,
ga
G, and = as shorthand for speciﬁc U operations (deﬁned in the comments).
Note that syntactically deﬁning the games only requires U to be a partial uni-
verse of computation. Deﬁning U.σ adds semantics to A’s behavior. Implicitly, A
is run using the same U as the game. For a given universe U and adversary A we
deﬁne the advantages Advscdh
U
(A) = Pr[Gscdh
U
(A)] and Advdlog
U
(A) = Pr[Gdlog
U
(A)].
Normal CDH security is captured by considering A playing Strong CDH that
never queries its oracle. By techniques of FKL, (Strong) CDH security against
algebraic algorithms reduces to discrete logarithm security.
3.3
Shoup Generic Algorithms
We describe a way to view Shoup generic models when considering our frame-
work. Note that we will have to describe both syntactically what actions an
algorithm can take and semantically how these actions are interpreted.
Typical descriptions of Shoup [24] generic algorithms provide them access
to an oracle for group operations with respect to an encoding function σ. The
oracle takes in two bitstrings α and β then returns σ(op(σ−1(α), σ−1(β))). Con-
sequently, a Shoup generic algorithm is given direct access to the bitstring repre-
sentations of group elements and may apply whatever bit operations it desires to
them, as well as interpret arbitrary strings as being group elements. This matches
what an unrestricted algorithm is allowed to do. Using encodeσ and decodeσ,
unrestricted algorithms can always map between ⟨elem⟩variables for computing
the group operation and ⟨bits⟩variables for applying the bit operations of its
choice. Indeed an unrestricted model algorithm can simulate the described oracle
as encodeσ(funcop(decodeσ(x), decodeσ(y)). An algorithm on bits with access to
the oracle could similarly emulate the view of an unrestricted algorithm.

Generic and Algebraic Computation Models
27
Rather than introducing a separate oracle, we will treat Shoup genericness
as syntactically captured by unrestricted algorithms,11 meaning we allow all
algorithms in SAP[U]. The operations on ⟨elem⟩play the role of the oracles.
Shoup models ﬁx diﬀerent semantics of how U.σ is picked.
Deﬁnition 4 (Informal). Fix partial universe U and let A ∈SAP[U]. In the
ﬁxed-representation model (i.e., standard model) we measure the success of A
with respect to an a priori known eﬃcient U.σ. In the random-representation
model we measure the success of A with respect to a randomly chosen U.σ (over
some reasonable distribution). In the all-representation model we measure the
success of A with respect to the U.σ for which it performs worst.
The phrases “measure how well” and “performs worst” are intentionally vague as
the success of algorithms is measured diﬀerently for diﬀerent types of algorithms.
Consider when the algorithm is an adversary, a reduction, or a simulator; each
would deﬁne success diﬀerently. There would inevitably be scope creep beyond
any particular deﬁnition of success we provide. Typically, the random distribu-
tion is uniform over all σ : G.S →{0, 1}l for a ﬁxed l.
Example 1. For Strong CDH, in the ﬁxed-representation model, we use a known
U.σ and measure Advscdh
U
(A). In the random-representation model we measure
EU.σ[Advscdh
U
(A)]. In the all-representation model we measure minU.σ Advscdh
U
(A).
Shoup [24] used both the random- and all-representation models. Successful algo-
rithms (i.e., algorithms with non-negligible advantage) were stated in terms of
the all-representation model while the random-representation model was used to
bound how well an algorithm can perform.
4
AGM Interpretations and Metacryptography
With our pseudocode framework in place, we can compare the resulting inter-
pretation of the AGM to that discussed in other works. Along the way, we apply
the metacryptographic terminology (e.g., soundness, completeness, ambiguous,
illusory) from Sect. 1.2 to help frame precisely what is being discussed.
No Output Group Elements. It’s well known [13,25,26] that FKL’s AGM
is equivalent to the standard model for algorithms that do not output group
elements. The same holds for our framework. Suppose A ∈SAP[U] has inputs of
both type ⟨elem⟩and ⟨bits⟩but only produces outputs of type ⟨bits⟩. Internally,
A may obtain new ⟨elem⟩variables from its ⟨bits⟩inputs using decodeU.σ and
subsequently apply operations from U.Π on these.
Assuming a ﬁxed, eﬃcient U, σ, we can build an equivalent B ∈AAP[U].
Note that B can perform any of the computation steps of A, except decodeU.σ.
To avoid this, we replace all of A’s computations on ⟨elem⟩variables with the
11 We refer to them both as “standard” and “unrestricted” to avoid Shoup generic
models using “standard” algorithms.

28
J. Jaeger and D. I. Mohan
A(1, r1, r2 ∈Zp)
s ←r1 · r2 mod p
e ←(s, 0, 0)
return (s, e)
A1(⟨elems⟩R1, R2)
⟨int⟩s ←encodeσ(R1) · encodeσ(R2) mod p
// Interpret ⟨bits⟩encodeσ(R) as ⟨int⟩
⟨elem⟩S ←funcexp(funcgen(), s)
// ⟨elem⟩S ←decodeσ(s) would act identically
return S
Fig. 4. An example algorithm introduced by KZZ which is algebraic per FKL but
“intuitively” non-algebraic (left) and the natural, “intuitively” algebraic pseudocode
interpretation of it (right)
corresponding computation using their bitstring representations. In particular,
B ﬁrst applies encodeU.σ to all input group elements. When A performs any of
the operations in U.Π or U.Σ, we do the same operation using the bitstring
representations. When A performs encodeU.σ or decodeU.σ we leave it internally
represented as a bitstring.
This limitation of algebraic group models indicates that it is less complete
than generic group models. For example, an encryption scheme may be (cor-
rectly) proven secure in generic models but for which no typical standard model
(and hence no algebraic model) hardness assumption is known to suﬃce.
Deriving New Group Elements.
Before formally deﬁning their AGM,
FKL [13, p.6, ePrint] say “Intuitively, the only way for an algebraic algorithm to
output a new group element Z is to derive it via group [operations] from known
group elements.” KZZ give an example algorithm that is algebraic according
to FKL but seemingly does not match this intuition. For their example, we ﬁx
U to be a universe of computation for the cyclic group Zp. In particular let
U.S = Zp, U.Σ = {eq}, U.Π = {gen, op, exp}, and U.σ which maps a num-
ber r ∈Z to its ⌈log(p)⌉-bit binary representation. Note that gen() = 1 ∈Zp,
op(r1, r2) = r1 + r2 mod p and exp(r, a) = a · r mod p.
The KZZ example A is shown on the left of Fig. 4 (the original algorithm
picked r1, r2 at random, but this distinction is inessential). Note that this algo-
rithm is not in our pseudocode framework, it works in a more standard notation
where all code represents appropriately deﬁned computation on bitstrings. The
algorithm is given the generator of the group Zp as well as two elements of the
group. These elements are then multiplied (recall the group operation is addi-
tion) to obtain s ∈Zp which is output together with a valid explanation for it.
Note that when using Zp if 1 is the ﬁrst group element input to an algorithm,
then (s, 0, 0, . . . , 0) will always be a valid explanation for the group element s.
In the interpretation of KZZ, this algorithm does not match the intuition for
an algebraic algorithm as it derives the new group element s via multiplication
which is not the group operation in the group. Let us provide an alternate
interpretation of the intuition for algebraic algorithms [13,19].

Generic and Algebraic Computation Models
29
Remark 1. We think of an algorithm as “intuitively” algebraic if all new group
elements are obtained via the group operation, but arbitrary computations on
group elements and their bitstring encodings can be used to decide what group
operations to perform.
This is captured by A1 in Fig. 4 which gives our interpretation of A as an algo-
rithm in AAP[U], which follows the general approach sketched for converting
FKL algebraic algorithms into ones algebraic per our framework.
Note, that when we impose a type system on algorithms written without
one, there are multiple ways to do so which produce “valid” instantiations. As an
example, one of the comments in A1 shows how it could instead have been deﬁned
as a non-algebraic algorithm in SAP[U] \ AAP[U]. Alternatively, it could have
been interpreted as an operation purely on type ⟨int⟩variables. There should
be no expectation that all instantiations of a non-typed algorithm will satisfy
some property; the question is whether there exists one that does.
As observed by KZZ, if discrete logarithms are easy in a group then any algo-
rithm can be interpreted as algebraic for that group by these conventions. This
is true and not an issue. The AGM is used for analyzing relationships between
the hardness of problems with respect to some group. An AGM reduction, say,
from CDH to discrete log is thus correctly identifying that CDH is no harder
than discrete log in such groups. Given that, we consider this an illusory issue.
Index Calculus. KZZ also question the FKL interpretation that index-calculus
algorithms are algebraic. The above discussion gives a natural interpretation of
this idea. Consider a universe of computation where U.S is a cyclic subgroup
of Z∗
q, U.Σ = {eq}, U.Π = {gen, op, exp}, and U.σ maps a number r ∈Z
to its ⌈log(r)⌉-bit binary representation. Here gen() outputs a generator g for
U.S and op, exp perform multiplication and exponentiation modulo q. Let IC be
an algorithm which on input the bitstring representations of g, q, and a group
element A uses index-calculus methods to calculate dlogG(A).
Then Acdh which on input ⟨elems⟩A, B computes a ←$ IC(encodeσ(gen()), q,
encodeσ(A)) and returns funcexp(B, a) is an algorithm in AAP[U]. The fact that
its success can be bounded by that of a related discrete log attacker is a natural
result captured by the AGM [13].
Lack of Formalism of Group Element Inputs. FKL gave an example of an
algorithm Aalg which will always output X when given X′ = X∥⊥where X is
(the bitstring representation of) a group element. If Aalg is FKL algebraic, then it
must also be outputting an explanation of X in terms of gG.12 This explanation
will give the discrete log of X. FKL say the following.
Allowing inputs of form X′ while requiring algorithms to be algebraic
leads to contradictions. (E.g., one could use Aalg to compute discrete log-
arithms: given a challenge X = gx, run [X]x ←$ Aalg(X||⊥) and return x.)
12 Note that input X′ is a bitstring, not a group element.

30
J. Jaeger and D. I. Mohan
Game Gpatho
U
(A)
⟨int⟩x ←$ Z∗
p; ⟨elem⟩X ←gx
G
// funcexp(funcgen(), x)
⟨bits⟩X′ ←encodeσ(X)∥encodeσ(⊥)
⟨elem⟩Y ←A(X′)
return (Y = X)
// releq(Y, X)
Adversary B(⟨bits⟩X′)
⟨bits⟩χ||B ←X′
return decodeσ(χ)
Fig. 5. Pathological (non-type-safe) game and B ∈SAP[U] establishing universal
unsoundness of the algebraic group model
We therefore demand that non-group-elements inputs must not depend on
group elements [13, p.7, ePrint].
From the metacryptographic perspective, let us note that the parenthetical
example is not by itself a “contradiction” here. Indeed, one can deﬁne such an
algebraic Aalg for a given U if and only if discrete logarithms are easy to com-
pute in the group. This can be nicely phrased as an issue of soundness (i.e.,
contradicting an implicit assumption of soundness).
Consider the game Gpatho
U
deﬁned in Fig. 5 for which we deﬁne Advpatho
U
(A) =
Pr[Gpatho
U
(A)]. Fix a partial U for cyclic group computations. Then it is clear that
(via our equivalence with the FKL AGM) we can deﬁne an eﬃcient reduction
R : AAP[U] →AAP[U] such that for all adversaries A ∈AAP[U] and encodings
U.σ we have Advpatho
U
(A) ≤Advdlog
U
(R[A]).13 On the other hand, the standard
adversary B ∈SAP[U] deﬁned in the same ﬁgure clearly achieves Advpatho
U
(B) =
1. Hence the algebraic group model is misclassifying the security of the game for
all U.σ for which discrete logarithms are hard (i.e., all U.σ for which we hope
the model gives us a meaningful result). Consequently, the model is universally
unsound with respect to Advpatho
U
.
In our interpretation, it is natural to formalize that “non-group-element
inputs must not depend on group elements” by restricting attention to security
games whose “challenger” can be expressed as an algorithm in TSAP[U]. This
will exclude Gpatho
U
as it runs encodeσ. This matches Zhandry’s proposal that the
AGM be restricted to type-safe games. Even with this restriction Zhandry [25] is
able to show there still exist instances of universal unsoundness by giving a one-
time MAC whose AGM security reduces to discrete log, but which is insecure in
the standard model for any choice of U.σ. This universal unsoundness is similar
to examples of universal unsoundness in the random oracle [6] and generic group
models [8] in that it involves the game interpreting and running attacker-chosen
input as code. With the duality between code and data, we cannot hope to for-
mally specify a division between games that will or will not allow such behavior.
We instead (as with the random oracle and generic group models) use informal
interpretation to disallow games whose behavior can clearly depend on U.σ even
if it does not depend on the choice of U.σ in a formal sense.
13 We typically think of U.σ quantiﬁed before algebraic algorithms. Quantifying the
reduction ﬁrst makes for a stronger statement.

Generic and Algebraic Computation Models
31
Game Gbe
σ (A)
z ←$ Zp
Z ←σ(z)
z1 · · · zl ←Z
// zi ∈{0, 1}
X ←σ(1)
// X = gG = g1
G
for i = 1, . . . , l do
Ui ←σ(zi)
// Ui ∈{g0
G, g1
G}
Z′ ←A(X, U1, . . . , Ul)
return (Z′ = Z)
Adversary B(X, U1, . . . , Ul)
for i = 1, . . . , l do
if Ui = X then zi ←1
// Ui = g1
G
else zi ←0
// Ui = g0
G
Z′ ←z1∥· · · ∥zl
return Z′
Reduction R[Aalg](X, Z)
z1∥· · · ∥zl ←Z
I ←σ(0)
// I = g0
G
for i = 1, . . . , l do
if zi = 0 then Ui ←I
// Ui = g0
G
else Ui ←X
// Ui = g1
G
(Z′, (x0, · · · xl)) ←Aalg(X, U1, · · · , Ul)
// Z′ = Xx0 · Ux1
1
· · · U
xl
l
return 
izi · xi
mod p
Fig. 6. The KZZ binary encoding game, generic adversary, and generic AGM reduction
Algebraic to Generic Lifting Result. KZZ’s main result was a counter-
example security game showing that security proven in the AGM via “generic”
reductions do not necessarily imply hardness in the Shoup GGM in their inter-
pretation. The binary encoding game Gbe
G is shown in Fig. 6. Deﬁne Advbe
σ (A) =
Pr[Gbe
σ (A)].
Following KZZ, the code is written in non-typed pseudocode represent-
ing computation on bitstrings. It uses the underlying group Zp with bitstring
representations deﬁned by encoding function σ. The game encodes a random
group element Z as bits zi, then further encodes those bits as Ui = gzi
G . The
adversary B checks the value of each Ui to determine zi, then concatenates
these bits to obtain its output Z′ which will deﬁnitely match the original Z,
so minσ Advbe
σ (B) = 1 and KZZ consider this a successful (all-representation)
generic attack. Below B is a reduction R which, given a FKL-style algebraic Aalg,
uses its input Z from the discrete log game (here X = gG) to simulate the view of
Aalg. To correctly output Z, Aalg must also output the explanation which can be
used to calculate the discrete log of Z. For each σ, Advbe
σ (Aalg) ≤Advdlog
U
(R[Aalg])
so KZZ consider this a successful (all-representation) reduction. The fact that
there exists a generic reduction to discrete log and a successful generic attack
means that the FKL lifting result does not hold for this interpretation.
To be a counterexample for the type-safe model, we’d need to assign types to
the variables in Gbe and have both B and R be generic. Consider the variable Z′.

32
J. Jaeger and D. I. Mohan
If its type is ⟨elem⟩, then B’s creation of it will require the use of decodeσ making
it not generic. If its type is ⟨bits⟩, then A will be completely unconstrained in
how it outputs the bits (see the ﬁrst discussion in our section) and thus it is of no
use to a reduction R. With this view, either B or R must fail and hence a type-
safe lifting result is not ruled out. We provide one in Sect. 6. So the issue argued
by KZZ can be considered an ambiguous bug; it depends on one’s interpretation.
Separately, we could rule out this example by being strict about the con-
vention that security games should be type-safe. In that case, the operations
z1 · · · zl ←Z and (Z′ = Z) together require that either Z′ is type ⟨bits⟩(mean-
ing A has not group element outputs) or it is type ⟨elem⟩and an encodeσ
or decodeσ operation is required for the comparison. This non-type-safe game
would give an example of universal unsoundness à la Gpatho
U
.
5
Alternate Frameworks and Framework Analysis
Here we describe in detail our other frameworks and how they capture generic,
algebraic, and standard models. In Sect. 5.1, we describe a framework inspired by
Maurer’s GGM formalism [17] that accesses and operates on elements of G.S via
queries to special oracles. In Sect. 5.2 we describe a framework for representing
algorithms as circuits having special types of wires for elements of G.S with
special gates for each function in Π and Σ. This framework emulates and extends
the formalism deﬁned by Zhandry in his TypeSafe GGM instantiation [25].
5.1
Oracle Computation Framework
We start by describing a framework using special oracles that perform restricted
computations. This framework can be thought of as an extended variant of Mau-
rer’s formalism of abstract models of computation [17].
In this framework, we assume the existence of some underlying notion of
Turing machines M, which operate on the binary alphabet and can make oracle
queries. The oracles will store elements of S in a table indexed by labels of the
algorithm’s choice. When it wishes a function to be computed on elements of S
it speciﬁes the labels of the elements to be used. Formally, we deﬁne oracles for
each function f ∈Π or ρ ∈Σ and for σ as shown in Fig. 7.
Here we have used the convention of having ℓ1 through ℓn denote the labels for
input elements of S, having x denote the input bitstring, and having ℓout denote
the label for the output element. We emphasize that the algorithm calling these
oracles is required to be speciﬁed in M, but we are agnostic to the details of
how the oracles are implemented.
We write OΠ to denote all oracles Of and OΣ to denote all oracle Oρ. Now
we deﬁne our hierarchy of algorithms for this framework.
Deﬁnition 5 (Oracle Framework). Fix a universe of computation U. Then
– TSAO[U] is the set of all oracle algorithms (in M) that expect access to the
oracles OU.Π and OU.Σ;

Generic and Algebraic Computation Models
33
Oracles Of(ℓ1, . . . , ℓn, x, ℓout)
V [ℓout] ←f(V [ℓ1], . . . , V [ℓn], x)
return
Oracles Oρ(ℓ1, . . . , ℓn, x)
return ρ(V [ℓ1], . . . , V [ℓn], x)
Oracle Encodeσ(ℓ1)
return σ(V [ℓ1])
Oracle Decodeσ(α, ℓout)
V [ℓout] ←σ−1(α)
return
Fig. 7. Oracles that act on elements of S. Elements are stored in the table. Every
variable given as input to an oracle is a bitstring. Here f ∈U.Π, ρ ∈U.Σ, and
σ = U.σ.
– AAO[U] is the set of all oracle algorithms that expect access to the oracles
OU.Π, OU.Σ, and EncodeU.σ; and
– SAO[U] is the set of all oracle algorithms that expect access to the oracles
OU.Π, OU.Σ, EncodeU.σ, and DecodeU.σ.
Algorithms in these three sets are, respectively, called type-safe, algebraic and
standard/unrestricted algorithms.
Similar to TSAP, the input-output syntax of OΣ and OΠ are independent of the
choice of σ so it suﬃces to consider a partial universe of computation for TSAO.
This framework is essentially equivalent to the abstract model of computation
introduced by Maurer [17] with the oracle playing the role of the black box B
and the table playing the role of the variables V1, . . . , Vm. One beneﬁt of this
formalism is that the oracles allow explicitly simulating the view of an adversary
with another algorithm that computes the required functions while tracking
something about the queries that are made.
Algorithm Inputs and Outputs. With this framework, one needs to pro-
vide conventions for what it means for an algorithm to be given elements
inputs/output elements and, more generally, how group elements are passed
between multiple interacting algorithms. We will assume input elements Ai are
written into known, ﬁxed entries of the table corresponding to the label ℓinput,i,
and that when there are multiple oracle algorithms, they each have indepen-
dent table. The execution environment copies elements between tables when one
algorithm’s output is another’s input.
Consider an algorithm that is supposed to output (A1, . . . An, y) where the
Ai are elements and y is a bitstring. We will consider two conventions. In the
ﬁrst convention, (the “permissive” convention) we have the adversary output a
tuple (ℓ1, . . . , ℓn, y) of bitstrings, where each ℓi is a label indicating which entry
of V stores the desired output elements. In the second convention, (the “strict”
convention) there are some a priori ﬁxed labels ℓoutput,i, one for each output,
and the algorithm’s i-th output is considered to be V [ℓoutput,i].
We think of the permissive convention as the “correct” convention because
(for subtle reasons that will be discussed later) it turns out that for some U
the strict convention can result in a weaker model of computation. We will

34
J. Jaeger and D. I. Mohan
Gates Gf
Gf : S × · · · × S × {0, 1}∗→S
Gf(A1, . . . , An, x) = f(A1, . . . , An, x)
Gates Gρ
Gρ : S × · · · × S × {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}
Gρ(A1, . . . , An, x) = ρ(A1, . . . , An, x)
Gate nand
nand(a, b) : {0, 1} × {0, 1} →{0, 1}
nand(a, b) = ¬(a ∧b)
Gate encodeσ
encodeσ : S →{0, 1}∗
encodeσ(A) = σ(A)
Gate decodeσ
decodeσ : {0, 1}∗→S
decodeσ(α) = σ−1(α)
Fig. 8. Gates acting on bits or elements wires. Here f ∈U.Π, ρ ∈U.Σ, and σ = U.σ.
give an example U later and then prove some conditions on U under which the
two conventions are ensured to be equivalent. When we want to discuss strict
convention we will write SO[U] for X ∈{TS, A, S}.
Maurer [17] considers three speciﬁc types of problems called “extraction”,
“computation”, and “distinction”. Of these, only computation requires outputting
an element and Maurer uses the strict output convention.
5.2
Circuit Computation Framework
Next, we present a circuit-based framework that is inspired by Zhandry’s Type-
Safe formalism of the generic group model [25]. In this framework, we assume
some underlying notion of circuit-based computation C, wherein the circuits
compute on wires that store bits using a universal gate set (say, nand). Then
our framework adds an additional type of wire that stores elements of S (or ⊥).
Functions in Π or Σ as well as σ are computed by special gates. Altogether, the
gate types allowed in our framework are deﬁned as shown in Fig. 8.
We use GΠ and GΣ as shorthand for all gates Gf and Gρ. Now we can formally
deﬁne our hierarchy of circuits (algorithms) for this framework.
Deﬁnition 6 (Circuit Framework). Fix a universe of computation U. Then
– TSAC[U] is the set of all C circuits that additionally use gates GU.Σ and GU.Π;
– AAC[U] is the set of all C circuits that additionally use gates GU.Σ, GU.Π, and
encodeU.σ; and
– SAC[U] is the set of all C circuits that additionally use gates GU.Σ, GU.Π,
encodeU.σ, and decodeU.σ.
Algorithms represented by circuits in these three sets are, respectively, called
type-safe, algebraic and standard/unrestricted algorithms.

Generic and Algebraic Computation Models
35
5.3
Inter-Framework Equivalence
We now analyze and compare our frameworks at an algorithmic level. We ask
whether the sets of algorithms expressible in the diﬀerent frameworks are “equiv-
alent” to each other and to prior notions of the generic group model, algebraic
group model, and standard model.
We will ﬁrst formally specify our notion of equivalence between frameworks.
For that, it will be useful to introduce some terminology. If S[U] is a set of
algorithms for universe of computation U and f : U.Sn×{0, 1}∗→U.Sm×{0, 1}∗
is a function, we say S[U] computes f if there exists A ∈S[U] which on input
(X, s) outputs f(X, s).
Deﬁnition 7 (Equivalence). Consider two sets of algorithms S[U] and S′[U]
for universe of computation U. We say S and S′ are equivalent iﬀthe set of
functions S[U] computes is the same as the set of functions S′[U] computes.
A natural approach is to ask whether every algorithm A ∈Y[U] can be
converted into an algorithm B ∈Z[U] that produces the same outputs when given
the same inputs. Here, X ∈{TS, A, S} speciﬁes whether both A and B are type-
safe generic algorithms, algebraic algorithms, or unrestricted algorithms and
Y, Z ∈{P, O, C, SO} speciﬁes the underlying framework. Ideally, the resource
usage of B will be similar to that of A (e.g., polynomially related) but we do not
focus on this as we have not ﬁxed a notion of eﬃciency. This property will hold
for reasonable notions of eﬃciency.
We show that under mild assumptions on U as well as the underlying com-
putation notions M, C, and P, we can convert between the diﬀerent frameworks
with at most a polynomial loss in eﬃciency. The need for these mild assumptions
arises for the circuit-based and “strict” oracle-based frameworks since, surpris-
ingly, we cannot compute the function mux(⟨elems⟩X0, X1, ⟨bit⟩b) = Xb in
algorithms in TSAC[U] and TSASO[U].
Claim. Fix U with mux ∈U.Π and X ∈{TS, A, S}. Then P[U ], O[U ], C[U ], and
S[U ] are equivalent.
We formally prove our inter-framework equivalence in the full version of this
paper by converting algorithms from one framework to another.
5.4
Mapping to Prior Deﬁnitions
Intuitively, since algorithms in TSAP[U] are independent of the choice of σ,
this can be thought of as these algorithms being generic with respect to the
underlying group U.G. Then by giving algorithms access to encodeσ(), we allow
them to “see” what each group element is. However, due to the inherent type-
safety, they are still restricted from generating ⟨elem⟩outputs that are unrelated
to their ⟨elem⟩inputs, which gives them the algebraic ﬂavor. Then decodeσ()
eﬀectively removes this type-safety, thus becoming standard model compliant.

36
J. Jaeger and D. I. Mohan
A (non-)counter Example. Our modeling of algebraic algorithms by their
execution behavior rather than their inputs and outputs may initially seem overly
restrictive – consider the following algorithm (paraphrased from a Eurocrypt
reviewer) that is clearly algebraic as per the FKL framework, but for which it is
not directly evident where it falls in our framework.
Example 2. Let A be an algorithm on group G that executes another algorithm B
internally. First A forwards its inputs of group elements and non-group elements
to B as bits. Then B internally executes “non-algebraic” operations (e.g., B may
use a hash-to-group circuit to derive group elements from its inputs). Finally, B
outputs a bitstring with the value x ∈Zp. Then A submits the outputs (gx
G, (x)),
where g is the generator of G and (x) is the vector of explanations.
As per the FKL framework, algorithm A is algebraic, as it outputs a group
element gx
G, as well as its explanation x. However, it is perhaps not immediately
clear where A lies as per our framework since B’s execution behavior is “non-
algebraic”. We can create AP, an algebraic instantiation of A in our pseudocode
framework. First AP accepts its group element inputs as ⟨elem⟩variables, and
other inputs as ⟨bits⟩. Internally, AP executes encodeU.σ on all group elements
to produce the required inputs for B. Then AP then internally emulates B’s
execution on these bits to obtain the output ⟨int⟩x. It can then output ⟨elem⟩gx
G
by performing group operations to compute the exponentiation.
Algebraic Models with Explanations. AGM reductions, e.g., from CDH to
discrete log, require the FKL-style output of explanation vectors. To capture this
we design an “extractor” X[·] : AAO[UG] →AAO[UG] that compiles any algebraic
algorithm in our framework into an algorithm that does output explanations
corresponding to each group element output.
Fix an algebraic oracle algorithm A and consider X[A] deﬁned in Fig. 9.
Throughout the computation, it uses table E to store explanations for each
group element in V . Here E is a doubly-indexed table such that each E[ℓ] is a
vector (E0[ℓ], E1[ℓ], . . . , E|X|[ℓ]) of the explanation for the element V [ℓ] (when
non-⊥). Each oracle updates E to maintain that it explains the relevant elements.
Theorem 1. Fix a cyclic group G and deﬁne a universe for it with UG.S = G.S,
UG.σ = σG, UG.Σ = {eq}, and UG.Π = {gen, op, mux}. Deﬁne X[A] as in Fig. 9
from A. Then for any inputs x, X at the end of X[A]’s execution it will hold that
V [ℓj] = gE0[ℓj]
G
|X|

i=1
XEi[ℓj]
i
for all j ∈[n] with V [ℓj] ̸= ⊥. If A ∈TSAO[UG], then X[A] ∈TSAP[UG].
The result will generalize easily to other reasonable choices of UG.Π.
Proof (Sketch). We can, in fact, prove something stronger, namely that the given
relationship holds at all times during the execution of X[A] (after the initial

Generic and Algebraic Computation Models
37
Algorithm X[A](⟨bits⟩x, ⟨elems⟩X)
⟨elems⟩V
⟨ints⟩E ←0
// initialized 0 everywhere
⟨bits⟩ℓ, −−−→
ℓinput
for i ∈[|X|] do V [ℓinput,i] ←X[i]
// ℓinput,i is the label for the i
th input
for i ∈[|X|] do Ei[ℓinput,i] ←1
// Set explanation of each input as itself
(ℓ1, . . . , ℓn, x) ←$ AOgen,Oop,Oeq,Encodeσ(x, −−−→
ℓinput)
return (E[ℓ1], . . . , E[ℓn], x)
Oracle Oeq(ℓi, ℓj)
return releq(V [ℓi], V [ℓj])
Oracle Encodeσ(ℓ)
return encodeσ(V [ℓ])
Oracles Ogen(ℓout)
V [ℓout] ←funcgen()
E[ℓout] ←(0, . . . , 0)
// Initialize to 0 everywhere
E0[ℓout] ←1
// except g1
G = gG
return
Oracles Oop(ℓi, ℓj, ℓout)
⟨bit⟩bot ←(⊥∈{V [ℓi], V [ℓj]})
V [ℓout] ←funcop(V [ℓi], V [ℓj])
E[ℓout] ←E[ℓi] + E[ℓj]
if bot do E[ℓout] ←(0, . . . , 0)
return
Oracles Omux(ℓi, ℓj, b, ℓout)
if b = 0 do k ←i else k ←j
(V [ℓout], E[ℓout]) ←(V [ℓk], E[ℓk])
return
Fig. 9. Extractor algorithm X[A] for oracle algorithm A ∈AAO[U]
setup) and for all choices of ℓwith V [ℓ] ̸= ⊥. The base case holds from the for
loops setting Ei[ℓinput,i] ←1.
For the induction step, we consider what happens in each oracle. In gen, the
explanations E are set to the appropriate hardcoded values for the generator.
In oracle Oop, adding the explanations (unless one of the inputs is ⊥), gives the
desired behavior as AaAb = Aa+b. In oracle Omux, the explanation is copied from
the same label as the group element.
⊓⊔
Using our equivalences between frameworks, we could restate this result for A
being an algebraic group algorithm in any of the frameworks. We will henceforth
assume the existence of an algorithm X[A] for any algebraic A which runs in
essentially the same amount of time as A and produces the same output, except
the group elements are replaced with vectors over Zp which explain how these
outputs could have been derived from the inputs.
FKL AGM and Standard Model. By deﬁning X ∗[A] to be identical to X[A],
except it also outputs each encodeσ(V [ℓi]), The above result proves that any
algebraic algorithm in our frameworks can be converted to an FKL-style equiv-
alent. We must also prove the other direction – any algorithm that is algebraic
as per FKL’s framework is also algebraic in ours. Additionally, we also want to
show that our framework provides suﬃcient tools to capture any standard model
instantiations. Informally we are trying to prove the following claim.

38
J. Jaeger and D. I. Mohan
Claim (Informal). For every algebraic algorithm in FKL’s formalism, there exists
an algebraic algorithm in our frameworks that produces the same outputs on the
same inputs. Furthermore, any standard model algorithm can be expressed as
an unrestricted algorithm in our framework.
The main ideas for this were discussed in Sect. 3.2.
Scope Creep. Our framework equivalence, extractor, and comparison to FKL’s
AGM or the standard model all described “single-shot” algorithms that simply
produce output based on the given input. There is a risk of scope creep in our
work when we consider adversaries that query oracles provided by a game. This
could be modeled by viewing the adversary as a sequence of algorithms that
output what oracle should be queried next, with what input, and what state
should be passed back to the adversary next time it is invoked. The ideas under-
lying our results so far port over easily to this setting, assuming no additional
restrictions are placed on the adversary. However, several of these comparisons
assumed the ability to store arbitrary additional state so the ideas may not work
for “multi-stage” games [20] which restrict what state the adversary is allowed
to store between invocations. This is analogous to Zhandry’s [25] observation
that the “single-shot” equivalence between Maurer-style and Shoup-style GGMs
shown by Jager and Schwenk [15] can fail for multi-stage games but not for
type-safe “single-stage” games. Care is needed.
6
AGM to GGM Lifting Result
The goal of this section is to understand when this equivalence at the algorithmic
level can be used to infer that the security of a cryptosystem against algorithms
within diﬀerent frameworks holds. In this section, we formalize a general notion
of what is meant by a cryptographic security goal and use that framework to
study the question of what conditions cause the inference to hold. We aﬃrma-
tively establish criteria under which the FKL lifting result necessarily holds.
6.1
Example: CDH and Discrete Log
We start by showing a concrete example of lifting a result from the algebraic
group model to the generic group model. Then we will abstract out the core
properties we used to state a general lifting result.
Security Deﬁnitions. Consider the games deﬁned in Fig. 10 which recall CDH
and discrete log security. They are parameterized by a universe U for a group
G. We deﬁne advantage functions Advcdh
U (A) = Pr[Gcdh
U (A)] and Advdlog
U
(A) =
Pr[Gdlog
U
(A)].

Generic and Algebraic Computation Models
39
Game Gdlog
U (A)
⟨int⟩a ←$ Z∗
p
⟨elem⟩A ←ga
G
⟨int⟩a′ ←$ A(A)
return (a = a′)
Game Gcdh
U (A)
⟨int⟩a, b
⟨elem⟩A, B, C
a ←$ Z∗
p; A ←ga
G
b ←$ Z∗
p; B ←gb
G
C ←A(A, B)
return (C = gab
G )
Reduction R[A](A)
⟨int⟩b ←$ Z∗
p
⟨elem⟩B ←Ab
⟨int⟩x0, x1, x2
⟨elem⟩C
(C, (x0, x1, x2)) ←X ∗[A](A, B)
// Here, C = gx0
G
· Ax1 · Bx2
⟨ints⟩(a1, a2) ←Solvea(x0 + x1a + x2ba = ba2)
// Solvea is an algorithm solving the quadratic equiation
// and returning roots a1, a2 (0 when non-existent)
if (A = ga1
G ) do
return a1
else return a2
Fig. 10. Games deﬁning computational Diﬃe-Hellman (CDH) and discrete log security,
as well as reduction showing security of discrete log implies security of CDH against
algebraic algorithms
AGM Security Reduction. Now consider the reduction R shown on the right
which we view as a map R[·] : A →R[A]. It internally runs the extractor derived
from A, as deﬁned in Sect. 5.4. Thus, R can only be applied to algebraic A. It
reduces CDH security to discrete logarithm security. The algorithm Solvea(e)
take a polynomial e ∈Zp[a] and returns a list of solutions to it.14 The view sim-
ulated to X ∗[A] is perfectly correct (both A and B are uniform in G.S \{g0
G}). If
A would output C and succeed in CDH, then dlogG(C) = dlogG(A)·dlogG(B).
By construction, dlogG(B) = b · dlogG(A) and the explanation (x0, x1, x2) tells
us that dlogG(C) = x0+x1·dlogG(A)+x2·dlogG(B). Putting together and using
formal variable a for dlogG(A), we have the equation x0 +x1a+x2ba = aba. As
b ̸= 0, this is a degree two polynomial with at most two zeros. The adversary A
being correct implies that dlogG(A) is indeed a zero, so R uses Solve to ﬁnd it.
Thus R[A] succeeds whenever A would, giving Advcdh
U (A) ≤Advdlog
U
(R[A]).
Lifting to the GGM. Taking stock of where we are so far, we have used a
reduction to the discrete logarithm problem to show that CDH security holds
for algebraic adversaries assuming the discrete logarithm problem is hard in
the group. Suppose now we want to state this as a security result for type-safe
adversaries. First, let us recall that Advdlog
U
(B) is at most O(q2/p) for all type-
safe adversaries where q is the number of operation queries it performs [17]. If
we can then show that B = R[A] is type-safe whenever A is, we are done.
This is basically immediate. Examining the code of R[A] we see that encodeσ
and decodeσ are clearly never used unless X ∗[A] uses it. So R[A] is type safe if
14 Assume it sets a2 = 0 if there is only one solution and a1 = 0 if there are none.

40
J. Jaeger and D. I. Mohan
X ∗[A] is. We previously noted X ∗[A] is type safe if A is. Hence R[A] is type safe
and we have the bound Advcdh
U (A) ≤Advdlog
U
(R[A]) ∈O(q2/p) meaning security
has been lifted to the type-safe group model.
The lifting step required that our proof satisﬁes these three properties:
1. The reduction established security in the algebraic group model, namely
Advcdh
U (A) ≤Advdlog
U
(R[A]) held for algebraic A.
2. Whenever A was type-safe, so was R[A].
3. Discrete logarithms are known to be hard for type-safe adversaries.
All three properties are readily extractable from the proof. Property (1) was the
main content of the proof. Property (2) was inferred by simply looking at the
code of R. Had R been written in a typical pseudocode notation (perhaps with
an A written in the style of FKL’s AGM) without types, we would have to ﬁrst
induce a typing onto all of R’s variables and deduce from that whether (2) was
satisﬁed, interpreting their A as our X[A]. Finally (3) is an assumption we bring
with us when initiating the attempt to lift the result.
6.2
Inferring GGM Security from AGM Security
We now abstract out the necessary components of an algebraic reduction to lift
it to the generic model. It may seem that our framing is too abstract to the
point of essentially being vacuous, but this is a positive attribute because the
necessary properties are typically straightforward to extract from an existing
algebraic group model proof.
First, we deﬁne advantage functions abstractly as a map from algorithms
to real numbers. Then the notion of hardness for generic algorithms means the
output of this function is small.
Deﬁnition 8 (Advantage). Fix U. An advantage metric is a function Advmet
U
:
SAP[U] →R. It is generically hard if Advmet
U
(A) is “small” for all “eﬃcient”
A ∈TSAP[U].
The fact that we stated this in terms of the pseudocode framework is inconse-
quential. Any of the frameworks suﬃce by our equivalence. We leave smallness
and eﬃciency informal as the detailed meaning is not essential.
Next, we deﬁne a general notion of an algebraic reduction being a map
between algorithms and that a reduction is model-preserving if the output algo-
rithm is generic whenever the input is.
Deﬁnition 9 (Reduction). Fix U. An algebraic reduction is a map R[·] :
AAP[U] →AAP[U]. It is model preserving if R[A] ∈TSAP[U] whenever A ∈
TSAP[U]. It is eﬃciency preserving if R[A] is “eﬃcient” whenever A is.
Finally, we require that R actually was proven to imply security in the AGM.
Deﬁnition 10 (AGM
Reduction). Fix U
and two advantage metrics,
Advmet1
U
and Advmet2
U
. We say algebraic reduction R is a Δ-AGM reduction for
these metrics if for all A ∈AAP[U] we have that
Advmet1
U
(A) ≤Δ · Advmet2
U
(R[A]).

Generic and Algebraic Computation Models
41
For our claims, this is only require to hold for a ﬁxed U, but for a given partially
speciﬁed U the relationship would typically hold for any choice of U.σ. Putting
these together gives our lifting result.
Theorem 2 (Lifting Result). Fix U and two advantage metrics, Advmet1
U
and Advmet2
U
where the latter is generically hard. Let R be a Δ-AGM, model-
preserving, and eﬃciency-preserving reduction for these metrics. Then Advmet1
U
is generically hard.
Proof. This follows naturally from the assumptions. Let “eﬃcient” A ∈TSAP[U]
be given. Because R is a Δ-AGM reduction we have that Advmet1
U
(A) ≤Δ ·
Advmet2
U
(R[A]). Since R is model and eﬃciency preserving, we have that R[A] ∈
TSAP[U] and R[A] is eﬃcient. Then by the generic hardness of Advmet2
U
we infer
that Δ · Advmet2
U
(R[A]) and hence Advmet1
U
(A) is small.
⊓⊔
Reduction R[A]O
⟨elems⟩X, ST
⟨bits⟩x, st
⟨ints⟩e
(st, ST) ←$ R.InitO
(x, X, e) ←$ X[A]SimOrac
(x, X) ←$ R.FinO(x, X, e, st, ST)
return (x, X)
Oracle SimOrac(⟨bits⟩x, ⟨elems⟩X, ⟨ints⟩e)
(x, X, st, ST) ←$ R.OracO(x, X, e, st, ST)
return (x, X)
Fig. 11. A blackbox reduction R deﬁned by algorithms R.Init, R.Orac, and R.Fin. It
maps adversary A to the adversary R[A] which expects access to oracle O.
The abstract framing of the result makes its proof straightforward but leaves
the natural question, of whether researchers are writing AGM proofs via reduc-
tions that satisfy our conditions. In short, yes. First, we note that by the
very nature of our goal and starting point, we expect these conditions to hold
for advantage metrics and reductions used in an algebraic group model proof.
Whether R is model preserving will need checking – is it actually the case that
R[A] is generic whenever A is for some given proof?
Consider the general framing of a black-box reduction R shown in Fig. 11. It
assumes the reduction is of a very natural straight-line form used by the majority
of AGM proofs. The reduction speciﬁes three algorithms run before and after the
algorithm as well as whenever it makes any oracle queries. The extracted version
of the algorithm is used so that the explanation vector e for the ⟨elem⟩variables
X is included as part of the output for use by the reductions ﬁnalize procedure
and oracle procedure. Note that st and ST are simply the internal state (bits
and elements) the reduction stores out of view of A while x, X areused to store
any communication between R and A as well as R’s ﬁnal output.
The following gives a natural condition when such a R is model preserving.

42
J. Jaeger and D. I. Mohan
Theorem 3. Let R be a reduction of the form shown in Fig. 11. Suppose that
R.Init, R.Orac, R.Fin ∈TSAP[U]. Then R is a model-preserving reduction.
Proof. By construction of X[A], if A ∈TSAP[U] then X[A] ∈TSAP[U]. But
now all of the lines of code in R consist entirely of type-safe algorithms being
executed, so R[A] ∈TSAP[U].
⊓⊔
The point is that when an existing AGM proof is read it is straightforward
to verify that the reduction is of this form and that all of its constituent lines
of code are themself type-safe. Consider that our CDH to discrete log reduction
can indeed be written in this form. Fundamental to the ease is that type-safety
is simply a syntactic property that can be checked, perhaps after imposing a
type system on a reduction that was written assuming all variables are bits.
The result would of course naturally extend if R treated A in other more
complicated ways, such as running it multiple times or rewinding it, as these do
not change the general black-box nature of most cryptographic reductions. Of
course, if the reduction somehow actually relied on encoding-based properties of
the group then we cannot claim any sort of lifting result.
We view this as a strong indication that FKL had the correct underlying
intuition when making their claim that AGM analysis carries over to the GGM.
Our work compliments that of FKL by giving a more rigorous framing on which
to understand this result and that of KZZ by helping to draw more precise
boundaries of what sorts of “generic reductions” the FKL claim holds for.
Scope Creep. As discussed, our syntax for the reduction in Fig. 11 could have
been extended to cover a more general notion of black-box reductions. Similarly,
we could have considered more complicated advantage relationships, e.g.,
Advmet1
U
(A) ≤Δ2(A) · Advmet2
U
(R1[A]) + Δ3(A) · Advmet3
U
(R2[A]) + ε(A)
where R1, R2 are reductions and Δ1, Δ2, ε are suﬃciently small for eﬃcient A.15
We argue that doing so would confuse more than it would help. Picking nota-
tion for these more general framings would hide the essence of the idea which is
rather straightforward. We emphasize that the way this section comes together
with nary a technical detail beyond writing deﬁnitions is a positive result of the
way our diﬀerent models of group computation were captured via algorithms
within the same computational framework, just by increasing syntactic restric-
tions on what operations are allowed.
That said, it is important that when applying such a lifting result to watch
out for scope creep. A suﬃciently large change in the setting (e.g. to simulation-
based deﬁnitions where there are simulators that also need to be quantiﬁed over
or to multi-stage games where one needs to be careful whether X[A] can actually
be run for a given A) should be treated with care.
15 Asymptotically, if the Δ’s are polynomial and ε is negligible whenever A is polyno-
mially eﬃcient.

Generic and Algebraic Computation Models
43
Table 1. Summary of some AGM reductions in literature. Each reduction R is model-
and eﬃciency-preserving by examination.
Security property
Reduced to
Is R generic?
Decisional Diﬃe-Hellman,
Square Diﬃe-Hellman [1,13]
Discrete Log
Yes
EUF-CMA Security of
Schnorr Signatures [3,14]
Discrete Log
Yes
IND-CCA1 Security of ElGamal
Encryption [13]
q DDH
Yes
IND-CCA2 Security of
Signed ElGamal PKE [14]
Discrete Log and DDH
Yes
Linear Combination Diﬃe Hellman [13]
Discrete Log
Yes
LRSW Assumption [4]
Discrete Log
Yes
Non-malleability of ECVRF [3]
Discrete Log
Yes
UF-CMA Security of BLS [13]
Discrete Log
Yes
UF-CMA Security of Threshold
BLS Signatures [2]
One More Discrete Log
Yes
Unforgeability of Clause Blind
Schnorr Signatures [14]
One More Discrete Log
and Modiﬁed ROS
Yes
One More Sequential Unforgeability
of Abe’s/Schnorr Blind Signatures [16]
Discrete Log
Yes
Applicability to Prior Results. We looked at some prior AGM reductions
in light of the above. We present our analysis of the reductions behind these
hardness results when they are expressed in our framework in Table 1. Column
1 lists the property proven by a reduction to the assumption in column 2. By
examination and assigning types to variables, we can note that the reductions
for each of these satisfy the properties required for versions of our lifting result.
References
1. Agrikola, T., Hofheinz, D., Kastner, J.: On instantiating the algebraic group model
from falsiﬁable assumptions. In: Canteaut, A., Ishai, Y. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2020.
LNCS, vol. 12106, pp. 96–126. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-45724-2_4
2. Bacho, R., Loss, J.: On the adaptive security of the threshold BLS signature
scheme. In: Yin, H., Stavrou, A., Cremers, C., Shi, E. (eds.) ACM CCS 2022,
pp. 193–207. ACM Press, Los Angeles, CA, USA (2022). https://doi.org/10.1145/
3548606.3560656
3. Barkan-Vered, W., Harding, F., Keller, J., Xu, J.: On the non-malleability of
ECVRF in the algebraic group model. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2023/1004
(2023). https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1004

44
J. Jaeger and D. I. Mohan
4. Bauer, B., Fuchsbauer, G., Loss, J.: A classiﬁcation of computational assumptions
in the algebraic group model. In: Micciancio, D., Ristenpart, T. (eds.) CRYPTO
2020. LNCS, vol. 12171, pp. 121–151. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-56880-1_5
5. Bellare, M., Rogaway, P.: The security of triple encryption and a frame-
work for code-based game-playing proofs. In: Vaudenay, S. (ed.) EUROCRYPT
2006. LNCS, vol. 4004, pp. 409–426. Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/
10.1007/11761679_25
6. Canetti, R., Goldreich, O., Halevi, S.: The random oracle methodology, revisited
(preliminary version). In: 30th ACM STOC, pp. 209–218. ACM Press, Dallas, TX,
USA (1998). https://doi.org/10.1145/276698.276741
7. Couteau, G., Hartmann, D.: Shorter non-interactive zero-knowledge arguments and
ZAPs for algebraic languages. In: Micciancio, D., Ristenpart, T. (eds.) CRYPTO
2020. LNCS, vol. 12172, pp. 768–798. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-56877-1_27
8. Dent, A.W.: Adapting the weaknesses of the random oracle model to the generic
group model. In: Zheng, Y. (ed.) ASIACRYPT 2002. LNCS, vol. 2501, pp. 100–109.
Springer, Heidelberg (2002). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-36178-2_6
9. Diﬃe, W., Hellman, M.E.: New directions in cryptography. IEEE Trans. Inf. The-
ory 22(6), 644–654 (1976). https://doi.org/10.1109/TIT.1976.1055638
10. Döttling, N., Hartmann, D., Hofheinz, D., Kiltz, E., Schäge, S., Ursu, B.: On the
impossibility of purely algebraic signatures. In: Nissim, K., Waters, B. (eds.) TCC
2021. LNCS, vol. 13044, pp. 317–349. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-90456-2_11
11. Ducas, L.: Conception of a language for cryptographic reductions. Master thesis,
in french (2009). https://homepages.cwi.nl/~ducas/stage2009/
12. Duman, J., Hartmann, D., Kiltz, E., Kunzweiler, S., Lehmann, J., Riepel, D.:
Generic models for group actions. In: Boldyreva, A., Kolesnikov, V. (eds.)
PKC 2023, Part I. LNCS, vol. 13940, pp. 406–435. Springer, Heidelberg, Germany,
Atlanta, GA, USA (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-31368-4_15
13. Fuchsbauer, G., Kiltz, E., Loss, J.: The algebraic group model and its applications.
In: Shacham, H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2018. LNCS, vol. 10992, pp. 33–62.
Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-96881-0_2
14. Fuchsbauer, G., Plouviez, A., Seurin, Y.: Blind schnorr signatures and signed ElGa-
mal encryption in the algebraic group model. In: Canteaut, A., Ishai, Y. (eds.)
EUROCRYPT 2020. LNCS, vol. 12106, pp. 63–95. Springer, Cham (2020). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-45724-2_3
15. Jager, T., Schwenk, J.: On the Equivalence of generic group models. In: Baek, J.,
Bao, F., Chen, K., Lai, X. (eds.) ProvSec 2008. LNCS, vol. 5324, pp. 200–209.
Springer, Heidelberg (2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-88733-1_14
16. Kastner, J., Loss, J., Xu, J.: On pairing-free blind signature schemes in the alge-
braic group model. In: Hanaoka, G., Shikata, J., Watanabe, Y. (eds.) PKC 2022,
Part II. LNCS, vol. 13178, pp. 468–497. Springer, Heidelberg, Germany, Virtual
Event (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-97131-1_16
17. Maurer, U.: Abstract models of computation in cryptography. In: Smart, N.P. (ed.)
Cryptography and Coding 2005. LNCS, vol. 3796, pp. 1–12. Springer, Heidelberg
(2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/11586821_1
18. Meier, L.: Idealized models for free (podcast) (2023). https://cronokirby.substack.
com/p/idealized-models-for-free

Generic and Algebraic Computation Models
45
19. Paillier, P., Vergnaud, D.: Discrete-log-based signatures may not be equiva-
lent to discrete log. In: Roy, B. (ed.) ASIACRYPT 2005. LNCS, vol. 3788, pp.
1–20. Springer, Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/11593447_1
20. Ristenpart, T., Shacham, H., Shrimpton, T.: Careful with composition: limitations
of the indiﬀerentiability framework. In: Paterson, K.G. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2011.
LNCS, vol. 6632, pp. 487–506. Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-642-20465-4_27
21. Rotem, L., Segev, G., Shahaf, I.: Generic-group delay functions require hidden-
order groups. In: Canteaut, A., Ishai, Y. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2020. LNCS, vol.
12107, pp. 155–180. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
45727-3_6
22. Schul-Ganz, G., Segev, G.: Accumulators in (and beyond) generic groups: non-
trivial batch veriﬁcation requires interaction. In: Pass, R., Pietrzak, K. (eds.) TCC
2020. LNCS, vol. 12551, pp. 77–107. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-64378-2_4
23. Schul-Ganz, G., Segev, G.: Generic-group identity-based encryption: a tight impos-
sibility result. In: Tessaro, S. (ed.) 2nd Conference on Information-Theoretic Cryp-
tography (ITC 2021). Leibniz International Proceedings in Informatics (LIPIcs),
vol. 199, pp. 26:1–26:23. Schloss Dagstuhl – Leibniz-Zentrum für Informatik,
Dagstuhl, Germany (2021). https://doi.org/10.4230/LIPIcs.ITC.2021.26
24. Shoup, V.: Lower bounds for discrete logarithms and related problems. In: Fumy,
W. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 1997. LNCS, vol. 1233, pp. 256–266. Springer, Heidelberg
(1997). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-69053-0_18
25. Zhandry, M.: To label, or not to label (in generic groups). In: Dodis, Y., Shrimp-
ton, T. (eds.) CRYPTO 2022, Part III. LNCS, vol. 13509, pp. 66–96. Springer,
Heidelberg, Germany, Santa Barbara, CA, USA (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-031-15982-4_3
26. Zhang, C., Zhou, H.S., Katz, J.: An analysis of the algebraic group model. In:
Agrawal, S., Lin, D. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2022, Part IV. LNCS, vol. 13794, pp.
310–322. Springer, Heidelberg, Germany, Taipei, Taiwan (2022). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-031-22972-5_11

