Hintless Single-Server Private
Information Retrieval
Baiyu Li1(B)
, Daniele Micciancio2
, Mariana Raykova1,
and Mark Schultz-Wu2
1 Google, Mountain View, USA
{baiyuli,marianar}@google.com
2 UCSD, San Diego, USA
daniele@cs.ucsd.edu, mdschultz@eng.ucsd.edu
Abstract. We present two new constructions for private information
retrieval (PIR) in the classical setting where the clients do not need to
do any preprocessing or store any database dependent information, and
the server does not need to store any client-dependent information.
Our Ô¨Årst construction (HintlessPIR) eliminates the client preprocessing
step from the recent LWE-based SimplePIR (Henzinger et al., USENIX
Security 2023) by outsourcing the ‚Äúhint‚Äù related computation to the
server, leveraging a new concept of homomorphic encryption with com-
posable preprocessing. We realize this concept with RLWE encryption
schemes, and by leveraging the composibility of this technique we are able
to preprocess almost all the expensive parts of the homomorphic compu-
tation and reuse them across multiple protocol executions. As a concrete
application, we propose highly eÔ¨Écient matrix vector multiplication that
allows us to build HintlessPIR. For a database of size 8 GB, HintlessPIR
achieves throughput about 6.37 GB/s without requiring transmission of
any client or server state. We additionally formalize the matrix vector
multiplication protocol as a novel primitive that we call LinPIR, which
may be of independent interest.
In our second construction (TensorPIR) we reduce the communica-
tion of HintlessPIR from square root to cubic root in the database size.
We show how to use RLWE encryption with preprocessing to outsource
LWE decryption for ciphertexts generated by homomorphic multiplica-
tions. This allows the server to do more complex processing using a more
compact query under LWE.
We implement and benchmark HintlessPIR which achieves better con-
crete costs than TensorPIR for a large set of databases of interest. We
show that it improves the communication of recent preprocessing con-
structions when clients do not have large numbers of queries or the
database updates frequently. The computation cost for removing the hint
is small and decreases as the database becomes larger, and it is always
more eÔ¨Écient than other constructions with client hints such as Spiral
PIR (Menon and Wu, S&P 2022). In the setting of anonymous queries
we also improve on Spiral‚Äôs communication.
M. Schultz-Wu‚ÄîWork performed at Google.
c
‚ÉùInternational Association for Cryptologic Research 2024
L. Reyzin and D. Stebila (Eds.): CRYPTO 2024, LNCS 14928, pp. 183‚Äì217, 2024.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-68400-5_6

184
B. Li et al.
1
Introduction
How to enable client access to a public database without revealing any informa-
tion about the query to the server hosting the database? This question comes
up in numerous applications such as anonymous messaging [1,5,40], contact dis-
covery [11], password breach checkup [47], safe browsing [34], privacy enhanced
advertising [8,29] and many others, and has been the topic of study for the area
of private information retrieval (PIR) [15,35]. Since downloading the database is
a trivial solution when the database is public, PIR constructions aim to achieve
sublinear communication. Early theoretical results [9,13,21,25] have shown fea-
sibility of constructions with communication polylogarithmic in the size of the
database, but have also given a linear computation lower bound in the basic
model of PIR1. The pursuit of a practical PIR construction has lead to a long
line of works [1,3,4,16‚Äì18,23,33,34,36‚Äì39,41,42,51,52] that have drawn a much
more complex picture of the possible trade-oÔ¨Äs between communication and
computation for constructions.
One approach to obtain better eÔ¨Éciency has been to consider multi-server
settings where the database is held by two or more servers that are assumed to
be non-colluding. Two/multi-server PIR constructions [12,15,31,36] oÔ¨Äer better
eÔ¨Éciency (and even information-theoretic security guarantees [15,20,31]), but
they require the signiÔ¨Åcant assumption that the servers are non-colluding. While
there are settings which match this security model, our focus in this paper is on
scenarios where we can rely only on a single server.
In the single-server PIR setting, an emerging paradigm that has enabled
concrete reductions in the online computational cost to the server (even achieving
sublinear computation) has been the model of preprocessing. In this model, the
server and the client preprocess the database to obtain auxiliary information,
which is stored and then used when processing the PIR queries, with the goal
of reducing the online (query-time) communication and computation. In many
constructions the (server side) preprocessing is client speciÔ¨Åc, i.e. depends on
private input from the client, and therefore needs to be computed by the client
in an interaction with the server [17,36,42,52]. On the client side, the result of
the preprocessing depends on the database, and it is often called a ‚Äúhint‚Äù, as it
provides partial information about the database content.
Two recent works that use preprocessing and hints to design practically eÔ¨É-
cient PIR protocols are [33,39]. However, the two works optimize PIR protocols
along diÔ¨Äerent dimensions. The SimplePIR protocol proposed in [33] minimizes
the server‚Äôs query processing time, but at the cost of high communication. The
Spiral PIR protocol proposed in [39] minimizes communication at the cost of
substantially higher computation times.
In this paper we propose new PIR protocols that are practically eÔ¨Écient both
in terms of query processing times and communication complexity, combining
the best features of [33,39]. Moreover, we do so while avoiding the use of (client
1 Without preprocessing.

Hintless Single-Server Private Information Retrieval
185
side) hints and (client dependent) preprocessing, yielding usability beneÔ¨Åts to
our scheme that we summarize later.
In the rest of the introduction we Ô¨Årst discuss the beneÔ¨Åts of not using hints
in PIR protocols. Then we provide a more detailed description of previous pro-
tocols, including Spiral PIR and SimplePIR which is the starting point of our
work. Finally, we describe the new techniques developed in our work to design
improved, practically eÔ¨Écient PIR protocols that do not require client side hints.
The Problem with Preprocessing
The cost of preprocessing can be substantial, both in terms of computation (typi-
cally on the server side), and communication (in some parameter regimes yielding
worse bandwidth than trivially transmitting the entire database to the client.)
But, since preprocessing is query-independent, it can be performed oÔ¨Ä-line, in
advance. Moreover, the result of preprocessing can be re-used across several
queries, reducing its amortized (per query) cost. Still, client-speciÔ¨Åc preprocess-
ing for the server, and database-speciÔ¨Åc hints for the client, have a number of
drawbacks:
‚Äì Database-dependent storage on the client can be prohibitive in some set-
tings, especially if a client wishes to query multiple databases. For storage-
constrained clients, this may require clients to evict ‚Äúold‚Äù hints before enough
queries have been issued to a database to amortize the high cost of the hint
to something concretely reasonable.
‚Äì When the database is updated, all hints need to be recomputed to maintain
correctness across all clients. For highly dynamic databases, this may add
signiÔ¨Åcant communication overhead2 to keep the hints in sync. These required
communications are not associated with any client query, and therefore work
against the amortization argument for the communication required to transfer
the hint. Such dynamically-updating databases are common in some areas,
such as real-time data (e.g. a database of real-time stock prices).
‚Äì Another example where hints may create signiÔ¨Åcant additional overhead is
the ‚Äústreaming setting‚Äù deÔ¨Åned in [39] where the same query is executed
across several diÔ¨Äerent databases. This setting is relevant to a common tech-
nique for Ô¨Åtting a database with large B-bit entries into a PIR scheme that
leverages homomorphic computation on b-bit numbers. One can shard the
database into B/b databases of b-bit numbers, and issue queries to all B/b
databases simultaneously. If each database requires a hint, this increases the
storage requirement on the client by a factor B/b, which may quickly become
prohibitive in practice.
2 While in principle one can dynamically update the hint, this has many practical
diÔ¨Éculties. We direct readers to the application of SimplePIR to CertiÔ¨Åcate Trans-
parency Auditing [33, Section 7.2], where the SimplePIR authors preferred to have
clients cache ‚Äústale‚Äù queries and periodically redownload the entire hint, rather than
leverage their dynamic hint update mechanisms [33, Appendices C.3 and E.3].

186
B. Li et al.
‚Äì Client-dependent state stored on the server is also undesirable, if not just
for the fact that increases storage requirements on the server. But that‚Äôs not
the only issue. Another downside is that even though PIR completely hides
the content of the clients‚Äô queries, it does not provide anonymity regarding
which client is querying the database at which time. In fact, if the server
requires client-dependent state, the server must have knowledge of this infor-
mation for correct protocol execution. This linkability can be lessened by
rotating the client-dependent state regularly, but yet again this cuts against
the amortization argument. Note that there have been several eÔ¨Äorts to pro-
vide anonymity for user traÔ¨Éc, such as Apple‚Äôs iCloud Private Relay [6],
Google One VPN [27], Privacy Sandbox IP Protection [28], Tor [49]. The
classical PIR model (without client-dependent state on the server) allows
seamless composition with such solutions.
In this work we propose practically eÔ¨Écient protocols that address all these
issues by avoiding the use of hints, and the presence of client-dependent state
on the server.
Recent Work
SimplePIR [33] proposed a preprocessing solution, where the hint does not
depend on any client private information. It can therefore be computed indepen-
dently by the server, and can also be reused across clients. SimplePIR demon-
strated how a database-dependent (but client and query-independent) hint can
enable signiÔ¨Åcant speedups in the server‚Äôs query processing time. Moreover, the
initial high cost to transmit the database-dependent hint may be amortized over
the total number of queries each client makes, so provided each client makes
suÔ¨Éciently many queries, the overall cost may be minimized.
The same paper presents a second construction, DoublePIR, which theoreti-
cally reduces the hint size to be independent of the number of database records.
This hint is still strongly dependent on the size of each record though. For exam-
ple, for records of size ‚â•256B, practically DoublePIR seems to often have hints
that are many times the size of the entire database [7, Figure 5.1].
A diÔ¨Äerent technique to minimize communication has the client send a com-
pressed query, which must be expanded (using homomorphic encryption) at the
server before processing the query. Many papers [3,4,23,38,39,41] have explored
variations of this general approach, and Spiral PIR [39] is the most recent and
best performing paper in this category. This construction uses a ‚ÄúPacked Regev‚Äù
RLWE-based ciphertext [45], which is homomorphically expanded to a GSW-
type ciphertext [26], before proceeding with the rest of the protocol. This homo-
morphic expansion is concretely expensive, and the cost of Spiral PIR exceeds
that of preprocessing-based constructions like SimplePIR by at least an order
of magnitude in our measurements (Table 2). Moreover, while each Spiral PIR
query is small, this is only true if one ignores the transmission of the encrypted
key material Spiral PIR requires for homomorphic computations. Of course, sim-
ilarly to SimplePIR, Spiral PIR can amortize the high cost of the transmission of

Hintless Single-Server Private Information Retrieval
187
this client-dependent data to the server, provided each client makes suÔ¨Éciently
many PIR queries.
It has been long known that preprocessing can bypass the linear computa-
tion bound for PIR [9], but until recently this was mostly a theoretical result.
Recently, the Piano construction [52] showed that constructions with sublinear
server computation can be concretely competitive. Piano improves the online
communication and computation costs for processing a PIR query, and also
reduces the client storage requirement, but requires increased preprocessing
communication and computation. In fact, the client needs to stream the entire
database, which may come at a large cost (though may be amortized over a
large-enough number of queries).
We also mention that a concurrent, independent work has proposed [32,
Appendix A.2] a PIR protocol that, similarly to ours, removes the hint from
SimplePIR using RLWE. So, for completeness, we will compare our work to the
PIR protocol of [32], which we call Tiptoe PIR after the name of that paper. As
a reference, Tiptoe PIR increases the size of client queries by an additive factor
‚âà22 MB (roughly two orders of magnitude larger than HintlessPIR for databases
we consider in Sect. 7) larger than those of SimplePIR.
Technical Contributions
Our goal is to construct a PIR scheme that requires neither database-dependent
state at the clients, nor client-dependent state at the server, while at the same
time being practically eÔ¨Écient both in terms of query computation time and
communication. More speciÔ¨Åcally, we wish to stay as close as possible to the
throughput of recent LWE-based constructions (namely SimplePIR), which are
faster than recent RLWE-based constructions (namely Spiral PIR) by roughly
an order of magnitude. Moreover, we aim to reduce the communication cost
per-query even in settings where amortization arguments are unavailable, e.g. a
client making a single PIR query.
We present two PIR constructions of diÔ¨Äering asymptotic eÔ¨Éciency, which
we name HintlessPIR and TensorPIR. Both of them require neither client side
preprocessing (or database-dependent state), nor client-dependent state on the
server.
HintlessPIR. The starting point for our Ô¨Årst construction is the SimplePIR con-
struction. This arranges the database (of size m) as a square matrix (of dimension
‚àöm √ó ‚àöm). In this format, one can execute a PIR query by homomorphically
computing a matrix-vector multiplication between this database and a ‚àöm-
dimensional selection vector ui. This recovers the column DB ¬∑ ui = DBi that
contains the desired record. One can therefore encrypt the selection vector ui,
and homomorphically multiply by the database to obtain a PIR scheme, which
is equivalent to a (heavily unoptimized) version of SimplePIR.
This simple idea has two signiÔ¨Åcant issues, both related to the fact that LWE
ciphertexts [A, b] contain a
‚Äì pseudorandom component b, which contains an encoding of ui, and

188
B. Li et al.
‚Äì a public random A, which is independent of ui.
Both of these components are required to decrypt (using the secret key s) as
follows
b ‚àíA ¬∑ s ‚âàui.
The source of both issues is that the matrix A is large‚Äîa factor N ‚âà210 (the
LWE secret dimension) larger than b, and N log2 q ‚âà215 larger than the index
i ‚àà[‚àöm] that is the client‚Äôs input. The largeness of A implies signiÔ¨Åcant overhead
for both
‚Äì bandwidth, in the obvious way, and
‚Äì server compute, as homomorphically multiplying by DB requires computation
of DB ¬∑ A, at a cost of N ‚âà210 times larger than a linear database scan.
SimplePIR solves both of these issues with the following optimization. It is well-
known that one can shrink A to a short seed, which is expanded back to a
uniformly random matrix using a random oracle. This shrinks the size of the
initial encryption of ui, but does not help the server compute. It also does not
help the server send a small reply back to the client, as one cannot Ô¨Ånd a short
seed‚Ä≤ that expands to a speciÔ¨Åc target DB ¬∑ A. To Ô¨Åx both of these issues the
server requires all client encryptions are done relative to a short seed, and then
transmits A‚Ä≤ = DB ¬∑ A as a database-dependent hint to clients. Then, when a
client receives a value b‚Ä≤ = DB ¬∑ b from the server, they can compute
b‚Ä≤ ‚àíA‚Ä≤ ¬∑ s = DB ¬∑ (b ‚àíA ¬∑ s) ‚âàDB ¬∑ ui.
We modify the SimplePIR construction by replacing the local (client side)
computation of A‚Ä≤ ¬∑s that required the hint A‚Ä≤ with a secure protocol to compute
A‚Ä≤ ¬∑ s (with the help of the server). We view this as a mild extension of standard
PIR, that we call linear PIR.
Linear PIR.
The secure computation of (A‚Ä≤, s) ‚ÜíA‚Ä≤ ¬∑ s resembles the
original matrix-vector multiplication DB ¬∑ ui used to compute the PIR query
response. The only diÔ¨Äerence is that the vector is no longer a selection vec-
tor ui ‚àà{0, 1}
‚àöm, but an LWE secret s ‚ààZN
q , and the databases A‚Ä≤, DB are
of diÔ¨Äerent sizes. We call this more general functionality linear PIR, and note
that it gives a way to securely compute a multiplication A‚Ä≤ ¬∑ s, where A‚Ä≤ is a
public matrix, and s is a secret vector. Similarly to standard PIR, our goal is
to securely compute this product in lower bandwidth than the trivial solution
of transmitting A‚Ä≤ to the client. This matrix-vector multiplication functional-
ity appears to be independently useful‚Äîit was recently used in the private web
search construction of Henzinger et al. [32].
In these terms, the SimplePIR protocol can be viewed as reducing a PIR
query (to the database DB) to a linear PIR query (to the hint A‚Ä≤ := DB ¬∑ A),
which is solved via the trivial protocol of transmitting A‚Ä≤ to the client. As A‚Ä≤
is smaller than DB, this gives some bandwidth savings, and (after computing

Hintless Single-Server Private Information Retrieval
189
A‚Ä≤ := DB ¬∑ A, which is expensive for large databases) yields a practically fast
protocol.
We deÔ¨Åne a novel linear PIR protocol that we call NTTlessPIR (Sect. 4),
which suÔ¨Éces to replace the linear PIR query implicit to SimplePIR, and yield a
hintless variant of SimplePIR (HintlessPIR, Sect. 5). Note that NTTlessPIR may
additionally be used independently of SimplePIR as a full-Ô¨Çedged PIR protocol,
though we Ô¨Ånd performance beneÔ¨Åts3 when using it solely to remove the hint A‚Ä≤
from SimplePIR, so we focus on this in our work.
NTTlessPIR proceeds by using RLWE-based homomorphic encryption to
securely compute the aforementioned matrix-vector multiplication. This is done
using a preexisting homomorphic matrix-vector multiplication algorithm [30].
This algorithm homomorphically computes (A‚Ä≤, Enc(s)) ‚ÜíEnc(A‚Ä≤ ¬∑ s mod p) for
so-called Number-Theoretic Transform (NTT) friendly moduli p.
We show that in the setting of linear PIR, where one does not need to per-
form further computation on Enc(A‚Ä≤¬∑s), one can extend this algorithm to general
moduli Q by computing A‚Ä≤ ¬∑ s mod pi for many NTT-friendly primes pi. Then,
one may recover A‚Ä≤ ¬∑ s over the integers using the Chinese Remainder Theo-
rem. We also show that one may instantiate this algorithm using an atypically
small amount of encrypted key material, namely a single rotation key. These,
combined with several other non-asymptotic optimizations, suÔ¨Éce to instantiate
NTTlessPIR. Despite these optimizations, the practical eÔ¨Éciency of the scheme
is still lacking. We Ô¨Åx this via an asymptotic speedup of the underlying homo-
morphic algorithm (and many others) using a technique we call homomorphic
encryption with composable preprocessing.
Homomorphic Encryption with Composable Preprocessing. The high-
level idea behind homomorphic encryption with composable preprocessing
(Sect. 3) is similar to SimplePIR4, albeit in the setting of RLWE-based encryp-
tion, and for a wider class of computations. For SimplePIR, the server leveraged
that it knew A before protocol execution to precompute the hint A‚Ä≤ = DB ¬∑ A,
and remove the computation and transmission of this from the online portion of
the protocol. We develop analogous optimizations for fundamental RLWE-based
homomorphic operations, namely gadget products and associated operations,
like gadget-based key-switching. More importantly (and diÔ¨Äerently than Sim-
plePIR), we show that our preprocessing is composable, e.g. we can preprocess
not only ciphertexts corresponding to the initial input to the protocol, but also
3 In particular, we are able to get considerable (though non-asymptotic) speedups in
server processing time, which was our primary goal in this work. NTTlessPIR used in
isolation signiÔ¨Åcantly improves the server preprocessing of SimplePIR (and schemes
that build on it) from O(mN) to O(m log n), and is likely of independent interest in
applications where minimizing this quantity is of primary importance.
4 Our optimization is even compatible with a SimplePIR-type ‚Äúhint‚Äù to reduce our
per-query bandwidth. As it has a smaller impact (2√ó reduction) in our setting than
that of SimplePIR (210√ó reduction), we instead omit it to achieve our goal of no
database-dependent state on our clients.

190
B. Li et al.
intermediate ciphertexts that arise during the homomorphic evaluation of com-
plex circuits.
This is done by identifying a certain invariant that many RLWE-based homo-
morphic operations preserve. Namely, if one has an input ciphertext (a, b) =
Encv(m), and a collection of encrypted key material {(ai, bi)}i = {Enc(fi(v))}i,
many homomorphic operations produce an output ciphertext (a‚Ä≤‚Ä≤, b‚Ä≤‚Ä≤) where a‚Ä≤‚Ä≤
depends only on (and can be computed deterministically from) a and {ai}i.
A trivial example is that the sum of two ciphertexts (a, b) and (a‚Ä≤
0, b‚Ä≤
0) has
a‚Ä≤‚Ä≤ = a+a‚Ä≤
0. More interestingly, in Sect. 3 we show that this occurs also in gadget-
based key-switching. Moreover, this property is preserved when combining sev-
eral operations together, allowing us to apply the preprocessing optimization to
entire circuits. This class of circuits includes algorithms of practical interest such
as the matrix-vector multiplication algorithm of [30], and the RLWE expansion
algorithm of [14]. This list is non-exhaustive, and more applications are certainly
possible, but in this work we focus on the operations that are needed for our
application to concretely eÔ¨Écient PIR protocols.
We next describe how we use the aforementioned invariant to speedup homo-
morphic computation. For gadget-based key-switching, one is input a ciphertext
ct = (a, b), and collection of encrypted key material ksk = {(a‚Ä≤
i, b‚Ä≤
i)}i‚àà[‚Ñì], and
must compute a certain function F(a) of a. After this function F(a) is computed,
the rest of the homomorphic computation amounts to computing a certain lin-
ear combination of the input ciphertexts, e.g. highly eÔ¨Écient operations. We
have the server precompute F(a), and then replace the superlinear-time com-
putation of F(a) with a memory access, yielding a linear-time algorithm for the
homomorphic computation.
In more details, the so-called ‚Äúgadget product‚Äù computes F(a) in time
O(‚Ñìn log n), via computing O(‚Ñì) NTTs, where n is the RLWE ring degree. This
is a common sub-routine in lattice-based cryptography, and often heavily con-
tributes to the cost of protocols (to the point that some papers summarize their
protocol‚Äôs complexity by counting the number of NTTs they require). In our pro-
tocols, we avoid having the server compute any (online) NTTs, via precomputing
them oÔ¨Ñine.
This does impose some overhead. If a client sends a new ciphertext
(anew, bnew) = Encv(mnew), the server is unable to reuse the preprocessing for
the old ciphertext (a, b) on this query. In our application to PIR, each new PIR
query would require new server preprocessing, e.g. we have not accomplished
much yet. This is addressed by having the server publish a single short seed that
may be expanded via a random oracle to a speciÔ¨Åc value a‚àó, and have all clients
encrypt their queries relative to this value, e.g. produce ciphertexts (a‚àó, b). We
recall that in (R)LWE encryption, diÔ¨Äerent a‚Äôs can be used to encrypt multi-
ple (in fact, arbitrarily many) messages under the same key s. However, each
ciphertext must use its own (independently chosen) value of a for encryption to
be secure. Still, reusing the same a is allowed5 when encrypting multiple mes-
5 This is the idea at the basis of the ‚Äúamortized LWE‚Äù cryptosystem of [43], as well as
the property SimplePIR leverages to securely allow all clients to use the same hint.

Hintless Single-Server Private Information Retrieval
191
sages under diÔ¨Äerent keys s1, s2, . . .. This is a very good match for our PIR
application where clients can sample fresh RLWE secret keys6 for each query.
This allows our server to perform the aforementioned preprocessing in a secure
and eÔ¨Écient way (reusing the same ‚Äúa‚Äù values), independently of the number of
clients or queries it handles, and the number of databases it maintains.
This technique results in a O(log n) speedup in our homomorphic computa-
tions. Moreover, the majority of the server‚Äôs computation is extremely eÔ¨Écient
operations, namely coordinate-wise sums and products of vectors (along with
occasionally permuting a vector). These facts combine to yield a practically eÔ¨É-
cient RLWE-based protocol, with performance characteristics much closer to
SimplePIR than Spiral PIR.
We Ô¨Ånally describe our scheme HintlessPIR, which uses SimplePIR to reduce
a PIR query to a Linear PIR query on the SimplePIR ‚Äúhint‚Äù DB ¬∑ A, which
we respond to with our Linear PIR scheme NTTlessPIR. We use homomor-
phic encryption with composable preprocessing (and several other optimizations)
within HintlessPIR, leading to a practical scheme.
We summarize the theoretical eÔ¨Éciency of HintlessPIR in Fig. 1, where we
compare it with the state of the art (fastest in practice7) lattice-based single
server protocols predating our work (SimplePIR and Spiral PIR,) as well as the
hintless variant of SimplePIR (Tiptoe PIR) described in concurrent, independent
work [32, Appendix A.2]. HintlessPIR improves on SimplePIR by requiring that
clients download database-dependent state, without impacting performance too
much. We Ô¨Ånd that HintlessPIR‚Äôs performance matches that of SimplePIR, up to
lower-order terms in the size of the database, without requiring clients download
any database-dependent state. This is with the exception of the size of the server
response, which is (asymptotically) a constant factor larger8 than SimplePIR‚Äôs
server response. This suggests that as m ‚Üí‚àû, the overhead of HintlessPIR (com-
pared to SimplePIR) should approach zero on all metrics except for the server
response, all while removing the database-dependent hint from SimplePIR. Note
that while Tiptoe PIR is similarly ‚Äúhintless‚Äù, its per-query communication is
asymptotically worse (O(‚àöm+n2) compared to O(‚àöm+n)), yielding concretely
worse per-query bandwidth (by two orders of magnitude) than HintlessPIR, while
also being slower by constant factors. We discuss this in more detail at the end
of the introduction, and in Sect. 7.
6 Of larger impact is that clients have to resample any encrypted key material they
use. We minimize the use of such key material in our protocol to reduce this cost.
7 There has been another recent practically-fast single-server PIR scheme, namely
Piano [52]. This scheme requires the entire database be streamed to a memory-
constrained client in a preprocessing step. As we are not modelling memory-
constraints on clients, in our setting this protocol is essentially equivalent to the
trivial PIR scheme that transmits the whole database to the client in a preprocess-
ing step, so we will not formally compare our work to theirs.
8 In our current implementation, this constant factor is somewhat large‚Äî‚âà33√ó larger.
We discuss several optimizations that would reduce this to ‚âà9√ó larger in the full
version, though they are not currently implemented.

192
B. Li et al.
We have implemented the scheme (Sect. 7), and summarize our concrete Ô¨Ånd-
ings regarding the scheme later in the introduction.
Fig. 1. Comparison of the Asymptotic (OÔ¨Ñine and Online) Communication and
(Server) Computation of practically-eÔ¨Écient single-server PIR schemes, as well as
whether the schemes require client-side (database-dependent) state, or server-side
(client-dependent) state. Throughout, m is the number of records in the database,
and n the (R)LWE secret dimension, typically ‚àà[210, 212]. Computational costs are
measured in Z232 operations and elements of Z232. Tiptoe PIR is our name for the
‚Äúhintless‚Äù variant of SimplePIR described in Appendix A.2 of [32]. Costs for SpiralPIR
are imprecise estimates, as the dependence of the many parameters of SpiralPIR on m
and n is not discussed in [39].
TensorPIR. So far, the PIR schemes we have constructed have bandwidth
Œò(‚àöm). We next discuss a PIR scheme which enables us to get Œò( 3‚àöm) band-
width, via a more complex construction. We call this scheme TensorPIR, for
reasons that will become apparent soon.
The high-level idea is to note that if we transmit two selection vectors ui0, vi1
of dimensions du, dv, then we can take their homomorphic tensor product to
obtain a selection vector ui0 ‚äóvi1 of dimension dudv. For du = dv = dw =
Œò( 3‚àöm), this high-level sketch would suÔ¨Éce to achieve our claim.
The issue with this high-level idea is that the LWE-based homomorphic ten-
sor product yields massive ciphertexts. In particular, rather than containing a
component DB ¬∑ A of dimension ‚àöm √ó N for LWE secret dimension N ‚âà210
(which was already problematic), the homomorphic tensor product contains
matrices of size
3‚àöm(N 2+2N). Typically one would include encrypted key mate-
rial called a relinearization key, to convert these ciphertexts back to standard
LWE ciphertexts, but the bandwidth to transmit these vectors of Œ©(N 3) dimen-
sion is much too large for our application. Instead, we show how the client can
upload certain RLWE encryptions, which are vectors of O(n) dimension, of their
LWE secret key to have the server homomorphically compute the values the
client requires for decryption.
This is conceptually the same as our hint removal for SimplePIR, though
practically it is more complex. The client now computes the decryption equation
DB ¬∑ (b0 ‚àíA0 ¬∑ s) ‚äó(b1 ‚àíA1 ¬∑ s).
After distributing terms, there is now one term that depends on s ‚äós, and two
terms that depends on s. We show in Sect. 6 that homomorphic computation of

Hintless Single-Server Private Information Retrieval
193
this decryption equation reduces to homomorphic computation of the quadratic
form (as well as two simpler versions of this expression)

i‚àà[du]
‚ü®ai, s‚ü©‚àó(DBi ¬∑ A1 ¬∑ s),
where ai is the ith row of A0 and DBi are certain
3‚àöm √ó
3‚àöm-dimensional sub-
matrices of DB. The server can perform this computation by
‚Äì having the client pack ‚ü®ai, s‚ü©for all i into a single ciphertext, and use the
RLWE expansion algorithm of [14] to expand it to encryptions of the con-
stants ‚ü®ai, s‚ü©, and
‚Äì using NTTlessPIR to homomorphically compute DBi ¬∑ A1 ¬∑ s for each i ‚àà[du].
Note that these computations are still amenable to our preprocessing optimiza-
tion. We performed microbenchmarks on the various components of TensorPIR,
and found that for large enough databases (e.g. ‚â•1 TB) TensorPIR requires
much smaller bandwidth while having comparable throughput.
Implementation. We implemented the HintlessPIR construction, which we
believe oÔ¨Äers practically more eÔ¨Écient parameters for the majority of databases.
Our benchmarks demonstrate that for a single initial query, HintlessPIR achieves
better communication than both SimplePIR and Spiral PIR, where we count the
hint and all parameters that need to be transmitted in order to make the Ô¨Årst
query. We Ô¨Ånd that our protocol has lower bandwidth until one is able to reuse a
hint for ‚âà50 to 100 SimplePIR queries to the same database, and our bandwidth
advantage over Spiral holds for the Ô¨Årst 3 to 5 queries. Our computation cost is
always better than Spiral PIR, and the overhead that we incur over SimplePIR
for moving the hint dependent computation to the server is moderate: the time
spent on downloading the SimplePIR hint over a 85 Mbps Internet connection to
a mobile device is comparable to making 5 to 20 queries in HintlessPIR protocol
for typical databases. Moreover, we Ô¨Ånd that our additional server computa-
tion does become small as m ‚Üí‚àû. For example, for a database of 230 records
and total size ‚âà8.5 GB, our HintlessPIR protocol is only ‚âà25% slower than
SimplePIR, and has server preprocessing that is only ‚âà1% slower than that of
SimplePIR.
In comparison to Tiptoe PIR [32, Appendix A.2], which is similarly ‚Äúhint-
less‚Äù, our bandwidth is much better. Our hint-removal overhead is 2 orders of
magnitude smaller than that of Tiptoe PIR, with running time between 1√ó to
5√ó faster. Tiptoe PIR has mildly more performant server preprocessing9. With
the exception of the smallest database size10 we consider (where Tiptoe PIR is
9 Its server preprocessing is identical to SimplePIR, so the gap between its cost and
HintlessPIR‚Äôs costs similarly vanishes as m ‚Üí‚àû.
10 For this database size, Tiptoe PIR‚Äôs bandwidth is 3√ó larger than the trivial PIR
scheme of transmitting the entire database. Our bandwidth is ‚âà1/16 of the cost of
this trivial protocol.

194
B. Li et al.
3√ó faster), HintlessPIR‚Äôs server preprocessing is at most 12% slower than Tip-
toe PIR‚Äôs. Tiptoe PIR‚Äôs server responses are ‚âà3.5√ó smaller than ours, though
due to their massive client queries their total bandwidth is still over an order of
magnitude larger.
Asymptotically, TensorPIR should outperform HintlessPIR for extremely large
databases that take advantage of its smaller Œò( 3‚àöm) query and response sizes.
Concretely (Sect. 7.3), we Ô¨Ånd beneÔ¨Åts starting with extremely large databases
of 240 1B records (1100 GB total), where we microbenchmark TensorPIR to have
38 MB bandwidth, compared to HintlessPIR‚Äôs 103 MB bandwidth, and Tiptoe
PIR‚Äôs 115 MB bandwidth. All three schemes have estimated throughput an order
of magnitude better than Spiral PIR (17 MB bandwidth) for this database, and
do not require transmitting the 69 GB SimplePIR hint to clients, which is espe-
cially onerous in this setting.
2
Preliminaries
2.1
Mathematical Background
For n ‚ààN we write [n] := {0, 1, . . . , n ‚àí1}.
Notation for DiÔ¨Äerent Vector Spaces. Throughout, we use bold-face a
to write a vector and upper-case A for a matrix. We write [a0, a1, . . . , an]
for the matrix obtained by horizontal concatenation of the vectors ai, and
(a0, a1, . . . , an) := [at
0, at
1, . . . , at
n]t for vertical concatenation. We write diag(A)
for the main diagonal of the (square) matrix A. We write rot‚ó¶i(a) to denote the
cyclically rotated vector, and for a matrix A we write rot‚ó¶i(A) to denote applying
rot‚ó¶i to each column of A independently. We deÔ¨Åne diagi(A) = diag(rot‚ó¶i(At)t)
for the ith generalized diagonal of A.
We will require computations involving basis vectors of diÔ¨Äerent dimensions.
For clarity, we will use the notation ui, vi, wi to refer to the ith standard basis
vector in dimensions du, dv, dw, respectively. We write ‚à•x‚à•‚àû= maxi |xi|.
As our work will use four diÔ¨Äerent products on linear-algebraic objects, for
clarity we will avoid leaving products implicit. We will write matrix-vector and
matrix-matrix multiplication with ¬∑, e.g. A ¬∑ B and A ¬∑ b. We will write polyno-
mial multiplication with ‚àó, e.g. a ‚àób. We will write Hadamard (element-wise)
multiplication with ‚ó¶, e.g. (a ‚ó¶b)i = aibi. Hadamard multiplication of vectors
of polynomials corresponds to element-wise (polynomial) multiplication of each
component. We will write Kronecker multiplication (or the ‚Äútensor product‚Äù) of
matrices/vectors as ‚äó. This is deÔ¨Åned as the block-matrix
A ‚äóB =
‚éõ
‚éú
‚éù
A1,1 ¬∑ B A1,2 ¬∑ B . . .
A2,1 ¬∑ B A2,2 ¬∑ B . . .
...
...
...
‚éû
‚éü
‚éÝ.
Tensor product satisÔ¨Åes the ‚Äúmixed-product property‚Äù (A ¬∑ B) ‚äó(C ¬∑ D) = (A ‚äó
C)¬∑(B ‚äóD), whenever A, B, C, D are such that all of the above matrix products
are well-deÔ¨Åned.

Hintless Single-Server Private Information Retrieval
195
Polynomial Rings. We consider only power-of-two cyclotomic rings Rn :=
Z[X]/(Xn + 1), where n is a power of 2. We write Rn,q := Rn/qRn, and we
say Rn,q is NTT-friendly if q is a product of distinct primes qi such that qi ‚â°
1 mod 2n. We will often abuse notation and refer to this as solely a property of q
when the choice of n is unambiguous. For NTT-friendly prime modulus q, there
is a ring isomorphism between Rn,q ‚àº= (Zn
q , +, ‚ó¶), which amounts to evaluating
the polynomial on certain roots of unity in Zq. The forward direction of this
isomorphism is denoted as NTT, and the inverse direction as iNTT. We write a
polynomial a in the coeÔ¨Écient domain, and 	a in the evaluation (or NTT) domain.
We will additionally need the Chinese Remainder Theorem, or the isomor-
phism between the rings ZP ‚àº= 
i Zpi when P = 
i pi is a product of coprime
integers. We refer to both parts of these isomorphisms as CRT : ZP ‚Üí
i Zpi,
and iCRT for the inverse isomorphism. Note that this isomorphism additionally
implies an isomorphism Rn,P ‚àº=

i Rn,pi. We will abuse notation and use CRT
and iCRT to refer to these isomorphisms as well.
2.2
Probability Background
For a distribution D, we will write x ‚ÜêD to denote a random sample from D.
For a set S, we will write x ‚Üê$ S to denote a random sample from the uniform
distribution on S. We write œáœÉ for a centered binomial 
i‚àà[œÉ2] Xi ‚àíX‚Ä≤
i, where
Xi, X‚Ä≤
i are i.i.d. uniform on {0, 1}. We write œán
œÉ for the corresponding distribution
on Zn with independent components. We will also require standard notions of
sub-Gaussian and sub-Exponential random variables. See [50] for an introduction
to this theory.
2.3
Lattice-Based Hardness Assumptions
We assume the standard hardness results of the LWE and RLWE problems, includ-
ing in the setting (important to our work) where one reuses the public ran-
domness (e.g. random matrix A or polynomial a) of the (R)LWE samples [44,
Section 6]. See the full version of our paper for extensive discussion.
2.4
LWE and RLWE-Based Encryptions
We will exclusively use LWE (and RLWE)-based encryption where the ciphertext
[A, b] has A expanded from some short seed via a random oracle, so we adapt
our notation to this setting.
DeÔ¨Ånition 1 (Private-key LWE-based Encryption). Let N, Q, Œî, d ‚ààN.
Let œÉ > 0. Let RO be a random oracle. Private-key LWE Encryption is deÔ¨Åned
to be the tuple of algorithms
‚Äì KGen(1Œª) : Samples s ‚ÜêœáN
œÉ , and returns this value.
‚Äì Encs(m; seed) : Samples A := RO(seed) ‚ààZd√óN
Q
and e ‚Üêœád
œÉ, and outputs
b := A ¬∑ s + e + Œîm.

196
B. Li et al.
‚Äì Decs(C): Parses [A, b] = C, and returns
 b‚àíA¬∑s
Œî

.
When seed is omitted we mean that we are not applying this optimization,
e.g. A is freshly sampled. A LWE ciphertext C = [A, b] encrypting m under secret
key s satisÔ¨Åes C ¬∑ (‚àís, 1) = Œîm + e. We call e the error of the ciphertext C.
DeÔ¨Ånition 2 (Private-key RLWE-based Encryption). Let k, q, Œî ‚ààN. Let
n = 2k, and œÉ > 0. Private-key RLWE Encryption is deÔ¨Åned to be the tuple of
algorithms
1. KGen(1Œª) : Samples v ‚Üêœán
œÉ, and returns this value.
2. Encv(m): Samples a ‚Üê$ Rn,q and e ‚Üêœán
œÉ, and outputs ct = [a, a‚àóv+e+Œîm] ‚àà
R2
n,q.
3. Decv(ct): Parses [a, b] = ct, and returns
 b‚àía‚àóv
Œî

.
We deÔ¨Åne the analogous notion of error for RLWE-based ciphertexts.
Plaintext Slots. The native plaintext space in RLWE-based encryption is the
ring Rn,p. When p is a NTT-friendly prime11, the plaintext ring Rn,p is isomor-
phic to a Zp-algebra (Zn
p, +, ‚ó¶), usually called the ‚Äúslot algebra‚Äù, where addition
and multiplication between polynomials in Rn,p correspond to component-wise
addition and multiplication over Zn
p. We denote using encodep the inverse iso-
morphism from Zn
p to Rn,p, and decodep its inverse isomorphism from Rn,p back
to Zn
p. Such isomorphism and its inverse can be computed using iNTT and NTT
over Rn,p. As such, we can also view Zn
p as the plaintext space of RLWE-based
encryption for suitable p, and we call 	a ‚ààZn
p the slots of a plaintext polynomial
a = encodep(	a). We usually drop the subscript p when there is no ambiguity on
plaintext modulus.
We will need the Galois automorphism Œ∏j for j ‚ààZ‚àó
2n, which is the ring
automorphism a(X) ‚Üía(Xj). For any plaintext vector 	a ‚ààZn
p, we write
rot‚ó¶j(	a) =

	aj mod n/2, . . . , 	a(n/2‚àí1+j) mod n/2,
	an/2+(j mod n/2), . . . , 	an/2+(n/2‚àí1+j mod n/2)

,
for cyclic rotation by j of the Ô¨Årst and second half of 	a. For power-of-two cyclo-
tomics we have encode(rot‚ó¶1(decode(a))) = a(X5), e.g. rotation by one and the
Galois automorphism X ‚ÜíX5 are equivalent operations. More generally, rota-
tion by j is equivalent to the Galois automorphism X ‚ÜíX5j in Rn,p.
RLWE Key-Switching. We will use what is known as ‚Äúgadget-based‚Äù key-
switching. See [22] for a more complete reference on gadgets in lattice-based
cryptography.
DeÔ¨Ånition 3 (Gadgets). Let G be an additive group. A G-gadget g of size ‚Ñì
and quality Œ≥ is a pair of a vector g ‚ààG‚Ñìand (non-linear) mapping g‚àí1 : Z‚Ñì‚ÜíG
such that for all x ‚ààZq, ‚ü®g‚àí1(x), g‚ü©= x, and
g‚àí1(x)

‚àû‚â§Œ≥.
11 In general p can be a prime power, but in our application we only use the case where
p is a prime number.

Hintless Single-Server Private Information Retrieval
197
Note that the equality ‚ü®g‚àí1(x), g‚ü©= x must hold in the group G, e.g. in
G = Zq it hold mod q. Typically one Ô¨Årst builds a gadget for Zq, and then
applies it coordinate-wise to Rn,q ‚àº= Zn
q . One may use gadgets to key-switch.
DeÔ¨Ånition 4 (Key-switching Key). Let g be a Zq-gadget of size ‚Ñìand qual-
ity Œ≥. A g-based key-switching key (from key v0 to v1) is collection of ‚ÑìRLWE
encryptions ksk where kski = Encv1(giv0). For a polynomial a, the ‚ãÑ-product is
a ‚ãÑksk =

i‚àà[‚Ñì]
g‚àí1(a)i ‚àókski.
Lemma 1. For g a gadget of size ‚Ñìand quality Œ≥, let ksk be a g-based key-
switching key from v0 to v1. Let ei be the error within kski. If ct = [a, b] is an
RLWE encryption of Œîm under v0 with error e, then [0, b] ‚àía ‚ãÑksk is an RLWE
encryption of Œîm under v1 with error e + 
i‚àà[‚Ñì] g‚àí1(a)i ‚àóei.
With certain Galois automorphisms Œ∏j we can homomorphically rotate the
plaintext slots encrypted in a ciphertext ct, but the resulting ciphertext ct‚Ä≤ is
encrypted under the substituted secret Œ∏j(v) and cannot be used for subsequent
homomorphic computation. We can apply a key-switching key from Œ∏j(v) to v
on ct‚Ä≤ to convert it back to a ciphertext that can be decrypted to the rotated
slots using the secret v. Such special key-switching key is usually called a rotation
key. We will use the notation Rotate{ksk}(ct, j) for the procedure that starts with
ct := [a, b], maps this to [a(X5j), b(X5j)], and then key-switches this from an
encryption under v(X5j) back to v. Such operation homomorphically rotates the
slots in ct by j, and the resulting ciphertext is encrypted under the same RLWE
secret key. As discussed above, this requires a single ‚ãÑ-product.
We will require several standard homomorphic algorithms. See the full version
for their descriptions and noise growth analysis.
2.5
Linear Single-Server Private Information Retrieval
We introduce a deÔ¨Ånition that we call linear PIR (LinPIR), where rather than
querying single record DBi, a client may query an arbitrary linear combination
of records 
i aiDBi.
DeÔ¨Ånition 5 (Single-Server LinPIR with Preprocessing). A Single-Server
LinPIR Scheme with Preprocessing is a tuple of four algorithms that all implicitly
take as input the security parameter 1Œª.
1. S.setup(DB) ‚Üí(hintC, hintS): Given a database DB ‚ààZm
p , output a client hint
hintC, and server hint hintS.
2. C.query(a, Chint) ‚Üí(qu, Cstate): Give a linear query a ‚ààZm
p , and the client
hint Chint, output a query qu, and client state Cstate
3. S.response(qu, Shint) : Given a query qu, and the server hint Shint, output a
server response rsp ‚ààR

198
B. Li et al.
4. C.recover(Cstate, rsp) ‚ÜíZm
Q : Given the client hint Cstate, and a server response
rsp ‚ààR, recover a linear combination of elements 
i aiDBi mod p.
Note that standard PIR is simply linear PIR where one queries a basis vec-
tor. In general, our goal is to minimize bandwidth costs in the above protocol,
measured by minimizing the sizes of Chint, qu, and rsp, while still producing a
concretely eÔ¨Écient protocol.
DeÔ¨Ånition 6 (Correctness). Let Œ¥ ‚àà[0, 1]. A Single-Server LinPIR scheme
with Preprocessing Scheme is said to be (1 ‚àíŒ¥)-correct if for any database DB ‚àà
Zm
Q, for any index i ‚àà[m], we have that
Pr
‚é°
‚é£C.recover(Cstate, rsp) Ã∏=

i
aiDBi :
(hintC, hintS) ‚ÜêS.setup(DB)
(Cstate, qu) ‚ÜêC.query(a, Chint)
rsp ‚ÜêS.response(qu, Shint)
‚é§
‚é¶‚â§Œ¥.
DeÔ¨Ånition 7 (Security). A Single-Server LinPIR scheme with Preprocessing is
said to be secure if for all (i, j) ‚àà[m]2, the distributions of query(i) and query(j)
are computationally indistinguishable.
LWEPIR: Unifying SimplePIR and FrodoPIR We will refer to the scheme
of Fig. 2 as LWEPIR. As mentioned in [19, Section 7.2] and [33, Section 2], this
essentially recovers SimplePIR [33] and FrodoPIR [18,19], depending on whether
the database is formatted as a square matrix DB ‚ààZ
‚àöm√ó‚àöm
Q
, or a row vector
DB ‚ààZ1√óm
Q
.
Note that there are additional optimizations presented in [18,33]. In particu-
lar, [18] notices that if one institutes a per-client bound on the number of queries
made, one may precompute the products Hs used in C.recover, allowing one to
only store H (client-side) during a preprocessing step. [33] notes one may use a
second invocation of PIR to reduce the client-side hint to a database-independent
quantity (though one that is still concretely large, see [7]). As our generalization
of LWEPIRŒ± will not feature a hint H, we do not bother with either of these
optimizations. While it was previously shown in [18,33] that LWEPIR is solely a
PIR scheme, it is straightforward to see that it additionally is a LinPIR scheme.
Tiptoe PIR: Hintless PIR from Linearly Homomorphic Encryption.
We next describe a (concurrently developed) hintless variant of LWEPIR, namely
the scheme described in [32, Appendix A.2], which we call Tiptoe PIR. Similarly
to HintlessPIR, this protocol builds on top of LWEPIR and it eliminates the
need to transmit the LWEPIR hint H = DB ¬∑ A by homomorphically computing
the matrix-vector multiplication (H, s) ‚ÜíH ¬∑ s on the server. As we will not
technically require any details of Tiptoe PIR, we keep our description high-level.
The main diÔ¨Äerence between this LinPIR scheme and the scheme we develop in
Sect. 4 (NTTlessPIR) is that Tiptoe PIR utilizes the column-major (rather than

Hintless Single-Server Private Information Retrieval
199
Fig. 2. The client and server‚Äôs algorithms in LWEPIR.
diagonally-dominant) matrix-vector multiplication algorithm of [30]: the product
H ¬∑ s is computed as
H ¬∑ s =

i‚àà[N]
Hisi,
(1)
where Hi is the ith columns of H, and si ‚ààZQ are scalars. Concretely, in
addition to employing LWEPIR with LWE secret s, in Tiptoe PIR the client
encrypts scalars si, for all i ‚àà[N], into RLWE ciphertexts {Encv(si)}i‚àà[N], i.e.
each ciphertext encrypts a scalar si as a constant polynomial. The server handles
the LWEPIR query as usual, and then computes the RLWE response

i‚àà[N]
Encv(si) ‚àóHi.
where Hi is an encoding of the ith column of H into a polynomial12. This LinPIR
scheme inÔ¨Çates client queries (compared to packing s in a single polynomial) by
a multiplicative factor O(N). But the server online computation involves just
ciphertext-plaintext multiplication, which is implementable without using NTTs,
and does not require any encrypted key material. Further, this LinPIR scheme
can be based on any linearly homomorphic encryption scheme, not necessarily
the RLWE-based one. The resulting LinPIR scheme is relatively simple, and has
good server compute, though large client queries. As we show later in Sect. 7,
one may simultaneously obtain better server compute and smaller client queries
using the techniques of the next two sections.
12 For simplicity, we assume the number of rows of H is equal to the RLWE ring degree
n.

200
B. Li et al.
3
Linearly Homomorphic Encryption with Preprocessing
In this section, we detail the main technical tool used in our work to improve the
performance of our PIR protocols. The main idea is that RLWE-based cipher-
texts (including simple RLWE encryptions, gadget-encoded encryptions, switch-
ing keys, etc.) consists of two parts (a, b) where a is some public randomness that
does not depend on the encrypted message, and is often available in advance.
Moreover, the public randomness of the ciphertexts output by homomorphic
operations often depends only on the public randomness of the input. This
results in a cascading eÔ¨Äect, where the public randomness of all intermediate
ciphertexts occurring during the execution of a protocol can be pre-computed
and pre-processed to speed up the rest of the computation.
As a matter of notation, we write Œ±(ct) for the public randomness part of
a ciphertext ct, and Œ≤(ct) for the pseudorandom part of the ciphertext. For
example, if ct = (a(X), b(X) = a(X) ¬∑ v(X) + e(X) + Œî ¬∑ m(X)) is an encryption
of message m(X) under RLWE key v(X), then Œ±(ct) = a(X), and Œ≤(ct) = b(X).
If C = (cti,j)i,j is a vector or matrix of RLWE ciphertexts (e.g., the encryption of
a gadget-encoded message), then Œ±(C) = (Œ±(cti,j))i,j is the public randomness
of the individual components, and similarly for Œ≤(C).
Now, let F(m) be an operation that we want to evaluate homomorphically
on a ciphertext ct = Encv(m). In other words, there is an evaluation algorithm
EvalF (ek, ¬∑) that, with the help of an evaluation key ek, given an encryption of
m outputs an encryption of F(m):
EvalF (ek, Encv(m)) = Encv(F(m)).
For several common operations F (e.g., as used in our PIR protocols) we show
that there is a preprocessing function PreprocF and optimized evaluation func-
tion ApplyF such that
EvalF (ek, ct) = ApplyF (PreprocF (Œ±(ek), Œ±(ct)), ek, ct)
(2)
where ApplyF has a much smaller evaluation cost than EvalF . Moreover, the
public randomness component of the output
Œ±(ApplyF (g, ek, ct)) = ApplyŒ±
F (g)
(3)
depends only on the result of the preprocessing g = PreprocF (Œ±(ek), Œ±(ct)), and
in particular, it can be computed in advance.
This allows to combine several homomorphic evaluation together. E.g., if
we want to evaluate homomorphically the function composition F ‚ó¶G(m) =
F(G(m)), we can do so using the preprocessing function
PreprocF ‚ó¶G(ekŒ±, ctŒ±) = (gG, gF )
where
gG = PreprocG(ekŒ±, ctŒ±)
gF = PreprocF (ekŒ±, ApplyŒ±
G(gG)).

Hintless Single-Server Private Information Retrieval
201
The optimized evaluation functions ApplyF ‚ó¶G and its public randomness compo-
nent ApplyŒ±
F ‚ó¶G are deÔ¨Åned in the obvious way. Here we have assumed that EvalF
and EvalG use the same evaluation key ek and produce only one ciphertext as
output, but the composition operation is easily extended to more general setting
of functions taking multiple ciphertexts as input and using diÔ¨Äerent evaluation
keys.
In summary, an evaluation algorithm with preprocessing for operation
F is given by algorithms PreprocF , ApplyF , ApplyŒ±
F satisfying properties (2)
and (3). The algorithms are used in the obvious way, precomputing g =
PreprocF (Œ±(ek), Œ±(ct)) in advance, and then evaluating ApplyF (g, ek, ct) at pro-
tocol execution time after the (encrypted) inputs become available. The perfor-
mance of an evaluation algorithm with preprocessing is described by the following
parameters:
‚Äì The pre-computation time, i.e., the running time of evaluating g
=
PreprocF (Œ±(ek), Œ±(ct)). This value is computed oÔ¨Ä-line, so it is not as crit-
ical for the practical performance of an algorithm. Still, we want this cost to
be reasonable.
‚Äì The size of the preprocessed information g. This value will need to be stored,
and often kept in-between executions of the algorithm. So, we want to take a
reasonable amount of space.
‚Äì The online computation time, i.e., the running time of Apply(g, ek, ct), given
the result of the preprocessing g. This will be the most critical parameter
aÔ¨Äecting performance, and should be minimized. As a side note, we remark
that part of the protocol input ek, ct may already be contained in the pre-
processing information g. So, in practice, there is no need to pass the whole
ek, ct to ApplyF , and it is enough to provide input-dependent portion of ek, ct,
namely Œ≤(ek), Œ≤(ct).
In the next subsection we give eÔ¨Écient evaluation algorithms with prepro-
cessing for the homomorphic operations used by our PIR protocol. Throughout
this section we will not analyze the noise growth of our algorithms, as the algo-
rithms themselves have identical noise growth to their variants that do not take
advantage of precomputation, which are all standard algorithms.
3.1
Preprocessing ‚ãÑ-Products and Key-Switching
We Ô¨Årst detail our preprocessing optimization for the ‚ãÑ-product of DeÔ¨Ånition 4.
Typically, the ‚ãÑ-product takes as input a gadget-based RLWE ciphertext ct =
[ct0, . . . , ct‚Ñì‚àí1], where cti = Enc(gi ‚àóm), and scalar a, and outputs

i‚àà[‚Ñì]
g‚àí1(a)i ‚àócti.
The operation ‚àóis naively computable in O(n2) Zq operations, so instead this is
typically computed in the NTT domain, e.g. one takes as input a gadget-based

202
B. Li et al.
RLWE ciphertext in the NTT domain 	ct = [	ct0, . . . , 	ct‚Ñì‚àí1], and a NTT-domain
scalar 	a, and outputs

i‚àà[‚Ñì]
NTT(g‚àí1(iNTT(	a))i) ‚ó¶	cti.
(4)
The quadratic time operation ‚àóis now computable in O(n) Zq operations, but
gadget-decomposition requires one call to iNTT and ‚Ñìcalls to NTT, e.g. O(‚Ñì)
calls to an algorithm that takes O(n log n) Zq operations.
We next show how this may be preprocessed to be computable in (‚Ñì+ 1)n
Zq operations, at the cost of (‚Ñì+ 1)n elements of Zq of storage.
Lemma 2 (Preprocessing
‚ãÑ-products).
There
exist
func-
tions (Preproc‚ãÑ, Apply‚ãÑ, ApplyŒ±
‚ãÑ) such that for any NTT-domain polynomial 	a,
and any NTT-domain gadget-encoded ciphertext 	ct = [	ct0, . . . , 	ct‚Ñì‚àí1], we have
that 	a ‚ãÑ	ct = Apply‚ãÑ(Preproc‚ãÑ(Œ±(	ct), 	a), 	ct, 	a).
Moreover, Preproc‚ãÑruns in O(‚Ñìn log n) Zq operations, and produces an output
of size (‚Ñì+ 1)n elements of Zq, Apply‚ãÑruns in (‚Ñì+ 1)n Zq operations.
Proof. Let g‚ãÑ= Preproc‚ãÑ(Œ±(	c), 	a) be such that
(g‚ãÑ)i =

NTT(g‚àí1(iNTT(	a))i)
0 ‚â§i < ‚Ñì,

j‚àà[‚Ñì] NTT(g‚àí1(iNTT(	a))j) ‚ó¶Œ±(	c)j
i = ‚Ñì.
Note that g‚ãÑ‚àà(Zn
q )‚Ñì+1, is such that
	a ‚ãÑ	ct = Apply‚ãÑ(Preproc‚ãÑ(Œ±(	ct), 	a), 	ct, 	a),
for Apply‚ãÑ(g‚ãÑ, 	ct, 	a) = ((g‚ãÑ)‚Ñì, 
i‚àà[‚Ñì](g‚ãÑ)i‚ó¶Œ≤(	ct)i). Note that this function satisÔ¨Åes
Œ±(Apply‚ãÑ(g‚ãÑ, 	ct, 	a)) = (g‚ãÑ)‚Ñì,
e.g. ApplyŒ±
‚ãÑis solely a function of the pre-processed data.
‚äì‚äî
We next show how to pre-process (gadget-based) key-switching.
Lemma 3 (Preprocessing
Key-Switching).
There
exists
functions
(Preprocks, Applyks, ApplyŒ±
ks) such that, for any RLWE encryption ct = Encv‚Ä≤(m),
and any gadget-based key-switching key ksk from v‚Ä≤ to v, we have that
Encv(m) = Applyks(Preprocks(Œ±(ksk), Œ±(ct)), ksk, ct).
Moreover, Preprocks runs in O(‚Ñìn log n) Zq operations, and produces an output
of size (‚Ñì+ 1)n elements of Zq, and Applyks runs in (‚Ñì+ 2)n Zq operations.
Proof. Recall that for gadget-based key-switching it suÔ¨Éces to compute
[0, Œ≤(	ct)] ‚àíŒ±(	ct) ‚ãÑ
ksk.

Hintless Single-Server Private Information Retrieval
203
So, we set gks = Preprocks(Œ±(	ct), Œ±(	ct)) = Preproc‚ãÑ(Œ±(	ct), Œ±(	ct)), and thus
Applyks(gks, 
ksk, 	ct) = [0, Œ≤(	c)] ‚àíApply‚ãÑ(gks, 
ksk, 	ct) = [0, Œ≤(	c)] ‚àíŒ±(	ct) ‚ãÑ
ksk,
as desired. Note that
ApplyŒ±
ks(gks, 
ksk, 	ct) = ‚àí(gks)‚Ñì,
is solely a function of the precomputed information gks, as claimed.
‚äì‚äî
We next show that this suÔ¨Éces for the batch generation of the rotations
{Encv(encode(rot‚ó¶i(m)))}i‚àà[R],
from a single ciphertext Encv(encode(m)), as well as a rotation key, e.g. a key-
switching key from v(X5) ‚Üív.
Lemma 4 (Pre-processing Rotations). Let R ‚ààN. There exists functions
(Preprocrot‚ó¶R, Applyrot‚ó¶R, ApplyŒ±
rot‚ó¶R) such that, for any RLWE encryption ct =
Encv(encode(m)) of m encoded in plaintext slots, and any rotation key ek, we
have that Applyrot‚ó¶R(Preprocrot‚ó¶R(Œ±( 	ek), Œ±(	ct), 	ek, 	ct)) generates (for i ‚àà[R]) the
rotations Encct(encode(rot‚ó¶i(m))).
Moreover, Preprocrot‚ó¶R runs in O(‚ÑìnR log n) Zq operations, and produces an
output of size (R‚àí1)(‚Ñì+1)n Zq elements, and Applyrot‚ó¶R runs in (R‚àí1)(‚Ñì+2)n
Zq operations.
Proof. Recall that, in NTT form, a single rotation may be computed via Ô¨Årst
mapping 	ct ‚Üírot(	ct), and then key-switching from the rotated key back to the
initial key. This is to say that one may preprocess a rotation by applying n
Zq operations (e.g. the rotation itself), followed by an application of Lemma 3.
To generate encryptions of rot‚ó¶i(m) for i ‚àà[R] rotations, iterate this process
R ‚àí1 times. The complexity estimates reduce to (R ‚àí1)-times the complexity
of Lemma 3, though computing the rotation of Œ≤(	ct) in each iteration increases
the cost of our protocol by an additive factor n Zq operations more than the
cost of Lemma 3.
‚äì‚äî
3.2
Precomputing RLWE-Based Matrix-Vector Multiplication
We next show that one may combine our previous tools to precompute the
homomorphic evaluation of
({Ai}i‚àà[M], Enc(encode(m))) ‚Üí{Enc(encode(Ai ¬∑ m))}i‚àà[M],
for some (public) set of matrices {Ai}i‚àà[M]. We homomorphically compute this
by Ô¨Årst homomorphically computing rot‚ó¶i(m) for suÔ¨Éciently many i, and then
computing a simple linear combination of the encryptions of {rot‚ó¶i(m)}i with
constants that depend on Aj. Note that this Ô¨Årst step is independent of the
matrices Aj we will multiply by, e.g. we will only compute it once, independently
of the value of M.
We preprocess the (homomorphic) diagonally-dominant matrix-vector mul-
tiplication algorithm of [30]. This relies on the following linear-algebraic fact.

204
B. Li et al.
Lemma 5. Let n, ncols ‚ààN. Let A ‚ààZn√óncols
q
, and m ‚ààZncols
q
. Then
A ¬∑ m mod q =

i‚àà[ncols]
diagi(A) ‚ó¶rot‚ó¶i(m) mod q,
(5)
We can extend this to arbitrary matrices A ‚ààZnrows√óncols
q
by vertically par-
titioning A into M = ‚åànrows/n‚åâsub-matrices Ai of size n √ó ncols, e.g. reducing
the single matrix-vector product into M matrix-vector products of the form of
Lemma 5.
Theorem 1 (Pre-processing Eq. (5)). Let M, n, ncols ‚ààN, where ncols ‚â§n.
Let Ai ‚ààZn√óncols
p
be a collection of M square matrices. There exists functions
(Preproc{Ai}i, Apply{Ai}i, ApplyŒ±
{Ai}i) such that if ct = Encv(encode(m)), and ek
is a gadget-based rotation key associated with the RLWE secret v then
Apply{Ai}i(Preproc{Ai}i(Œ±( 	ek), Œ±(	ct)), 	ek, 	ct)
outputs a collection of ciphertexts {Encv(encode(Ai ¬∑ m))}i‚àà[M].
Moreover, Preproc{Ai}i runs in O(‚Ñìnncols log n) Zq operations, and produces
an output of size nncols(‚Ñì+ 1) Zq elements, and Apply{Ai}i runs in nncols(M +
‚Ñì+ 2) Zq operations.
Proof. It suÔ¨Éces to set Preproc{Ai}i = Preprocrot‚ó¶ncols , so we focus on the
description of Apply{Ai}i. This uses Applyrot‚ó¶ncols to compute ciphertexts cti =
Encv(encode(rot‚ó¶i(m))), then returns (for each j ‚àà[M]) the values 	c‚Ä≤
j
=

i‚àà[ncols] diagi(Aj) ‚ó¶	ci. As a consequence of Lemma 5, one can check that 	c‚Ä≤
j
are of the form Encv(encode(Aj ¬∑ m)), as desired.
As Preproc{Ai}i = Preprocrot‚ó¶i, it suÔ¨Éces to examine the complexity of
Apply{Ai}i. This calls Applyrot‚ó¶i, and post-processes the result of this with
Mnncols operations in Zq, leading to the quoted complexity.
‚äì‚äî
We note that the complexity of our scheme (nncols(M +‚Ñì+2) Zq operations)
is quite close to the complexity of the underlying plaintext computation we are
performing (naively, nncolsM Zp operations), e.g. concretely our scheme has low
overhead, and should be performant. We validate this in Sect. 7.
4
NTTlessPIR: A LinPIR Scheme from RLWE
In this section we specify NTTlessPIR: a performant LinPIR scheme using RLWE-
based (linearly homomorphic) encryption. After applying our optimizations of
Sect. 3, we Ô¨Ånd that it inherits the beneÔ¨Åts of LWEPIR-type schemes (imple-
mentable using simple, coordinate-wise operations on modular integers) as well
as RLWE-based encryption (compact ciphertexts).
We investigate this LinPIR scheme in isolation in this section, before showing
in next section it may be used to remove the database-dependent hint from
LWEPIR, by replacing the local computation (s, H := DB ¬∑ A) ‚ÜíH ¬∑ s mod Q

Hintless Single-Server Private Information Retrieval
205
in LWEPIR (that requires the hint H) with a LinPIR query s to H, viewed as
a database. Throughout, we assume the database DB ‚ààZnrows√óncols
Q
, where13
ncols ‚â§n (and nrows is arbitrary).
Handling Arbitrary Modulus. The bulk of our scheme immediately follows
from Theorem 1. We brieÔ¨Çy describe the one step that doesn‚Äôt, namely the exten-
sion of Theorem 1 (where the plaintext modulus is NTT-friendly) to arbitrary
plaintext modulus.
Note that if the client can recover the LinPIR query DB ¬∑ m over the integers,
they can then manually reduce this mod Q, and compute the correct value. To
have the client recover the LinPIR query over the integers, we have the client
execute a LinPIR query mod pj for suÔ¨Éciently many (coprime) NTT-friendly
moduli pj. The client may then CRT interpolate their results to recover DB ¬∑
m mod 
j pj. Provided 
j pj is large enough such that no modular reduction
occurs, we are done, e.g. we may compute DB¬∑m mod Q for an arbitrary modulus
Q by computing DB¬∑m mod pj for suÔ¨Éciently many NTT-friendly moduli, which
we do eÔ¨Éciently via Theorem 1.
4.1
NTTlessPIR Protocol SpeciÔ¨Åcation
As the security and correctness of NTTlessPIR essentially follows from the secu-
rity of the underlying homomorphic encryption and standard correctness anal-
ysis, we focus on explicitly describing NTTlessPIR here and summarizing its
eÔ¨Éciency. See the full version for formal correctness and security proofs.
Lemma 6. Let DB ‚ààZnrows√óncols
Q
where ncols ‚â§n. Let m satisfy ‚à•m‚à•‚àû‚â§B.
Then the LinPIR scheme described in Fig. 3 requires
‚Äì Server Preprocessing: O(k‚Ñìnncols log n) operations in Zq,
‚Äì Server Long-term Storage: knncols(‚Ñì+ 1) elements of Zq,
‚Äì Server Response Time: kncols(nrows + n + (‚Ñì+ 2)n) Zq operations,
‚Äì Client Upload: kn + ‚Ñìn elements of Zq,
‚Äì Client Download: 2k‚åànrows/n‚åân elements of Zq.
Proof. Server preprocessing and server long-term storage amounts to running
the preprocessing algorithm of Theorem 1 k times, as well as sampling a Œª-bit
seed (which we ignore, as its cost is dwarfed by the cost of other preprocessing).
The cost to compute the server response is similarly k-times the online cost of
Theorem 1.
5
Removing the Hint from LWEPIR
We next show how to leverage NTTlessPIR to remove the hint form LWEPIR with
low overhead. The scheme itself is straightforward extension of LWEPIR, where
13 We reassure the reader that this restriction on ncols will be unimportant to our main
application of this scheme, namely removing the hint from LWEPIR in Sect. 5.

206
B. Li et al.
Fig. 3. The Algorithms of NTTlessPIR. Each ciphertext ctj in the S.response and
C.recover is an M-tuple of ciphertexts encrypting DBi ¬∑ m mod pj for i ‚àà[M], j ‚àà[k].
the client replaces the local computation of (H := DB ¬∑ A, s) ‚ÜíH ¬∑ s with a
LinPIR query s to the database H. We call the resulting scheme HintlessPIR.
Similarly to NTTlessPIR, we solely describe the protocol itself (and summa-
rize its eÔ¨Éciency) in this section, and defer the standard analysis of correctness
and security to the full version. The server must periodically reseed every Œ∫
queries for security. This comes at no asymptotic running-time cost provided
Œ∫ = œâ(log n).
Lemma 7. Let DB ‚ààZnrows√óncols
p
Then HintlessPIR requires
‚Äì Server Preprocessing: O(k‚ÑìnN log n) operations in Zq and 2mN operations
in ZQ,
‚Äì Server Long-term Storage: knN(‚Ñì+ 1) elements of Zq and ‚àömN elements of
ZQ,
‚Äì Server Response Time: kN(‚àöm + n + (‚Ñì+ 2)n) Zq operations, and m ZQ
operations,
‚Äì Client Upload: (k + ‚Ñì)n elements of Zq and ‚àöm elements of ZQ,
‚Äì Client Download: 2k(‚àöm + n) elements of Zq and ‚àöm elements of ZQ
Proof. HintlessPIR reduces to
‚Äì LWEPIR, invoked on a database DB ‚ààZ
‚àöm√ó‚àöm
p
, and

Hintless Single-Server Private Information Retrieval
207
‚Äì NTTlessPIR, invoked on a database H := DB ¬∑ A ‚ààZ
‚àöm√óN
Q
. Note that N :=
ncols ‚â§n for security, so the condition required for NTTlessPIR is satisÔ¨Åed
(Lemma 6).
Fig. 4. The algorithms in HintlessPIR. Throughout, we write ŒÝNTT = NTTlessPIR
and ŒÝLWE = LWEPIR for brevity, e.g. ŒÝNTT.query is Client‚Äôs query algorithm from
NTTlessPIR. In the algorithms, s is the LWE encryption key sampled during the LWEPIR
query algorithm. Note that the ŒÝLWE.Chint hint contains an LWEPIR hint H = 0 that
is incorrect, and therefore the value c0 = H ¬∑ s is incorrect as well. We use NTTlessPIR
to retrieve the correct value of c0 via a LinPIR query to the database H.
6
TensorPIR: Recursing a Single Time
We now describe our second PIR scheme, which we call TensorPIR. Assume the
database is a three-dimensional object DB ‚ààZdu
Q √ó Zdv
Q √ó Zdw
Q , for m = dudvdw.
Our goal is to retrieve the row in the dw dimension using two O( 3‚àöm) size
selection vectors u and v in the du and dv dimensions. Let C0 = [A0, b0] and
C1 = [A1, b1] be LWE encryptions of u ‚ààZdu and v ‚ààZdv, respectively, under
the client‚Äôs LWE secret s. These LWE ciphertexts satisfy the raw decryption
relations u ‚âàb0 ‚àíA0 ¬∑ s mod Q and v ‚âàb1 ‚àíA1 ¬∑ s mod Q. Thus DB ¬∑ (u ‚äóv)
can be approximately computed by
DB ¬∑ (u ‚äóv) ‚âàDB ¬∑ (b0 ‚äób1) ‚àíDB ¬∑ (A0 ¬∑ s ‚äób1) ‚àíDB ¬∑ (b0 ‚äóA1 ¬∑ s)
+ DB ¬∑ (A0 ¬∑ s ‚äóA1 ¬∑ s) mod Q.
(6)
The right hand side is a noisy version of DB ¬∑ (u ‚äóv). So if the client can obtain
these terms, then it can round and remove the error to get the desired records.
In TensorPIR, the client encrypts u and v under its LWE secret s as above,
and it additionally uses a RLWE-based scheme Enc for the terms involving the
LWE secret vector s. SpeciÔ¨Åcally, the client samples a fresh RLWE secret key v
and sends the following ciphertexts to the server:

208
B. Li et al.
‚Äì ctA0s ‚ÜêEncv(
i‚àà[du]‚ü®ai, s‚ü©¬∑ Xi), and
‚Äì cts ‚ÜêEncv(encode(s)),
where ai = uit ¬∑ A0 is the ith row of A0. The client also includes a Galois
key for Œ∏ : X ‚ÜíX5 in its query. We adopt the CRT decomposition technique
used in Sect. 4 to handle homomorphic computation over arbitrary modulus Q
that does not match the plaintext modulus of RLWE encryptions. Since the
homomorphic computation over each plaintext modulus is exactly the same, we
describe TensorPIR without explicitly mentioning the plaintext modulus.
Note that we can write the database as DB = [DB1, . . . , DBdu] = 
i‚àà[du] uit‚äó
DBi. Given the ciphertexts in a client query, the server can then homomorphically
compute, for all i ‚àà[du],
‚Äì the RLWE encryptions Encv(‚ü®ai, s‚ü©) of scalars ‚ü®ai, s‚ü©, and
‚Äì the RLWE encryptions Encv(encode(DBi ¬∑ A1 ¬∑ s)).
The Ô¨Årst set of ciphertexts can be eÔ¨Éciently generated from ctA0s via RLWE
expansion [14]. The second set of ciphertexts are exactly the homomorphic
matrix-vector products between DBi ¬∑ A1 and Enc(encode(s)), and we invoke
NTTlessPIR to compute them. We note that the above homomorphic computa-
tions are all compatible with our preprocessing optimization of Sect. 3. Further-
more, we let the server generate all log n Galois keys required by the RLWE
expansion algorithm, which is also compatible with the NTT preprocessing opti-
mization.
Afterwards, the server can just encode the plaintext terms DBi ¬∑ A1, uitb0,
and DBi ¬∑b1 accordingly for all i ‚àà[du], and then homomorphically compute the
sum of products in Eq. (6). See the full version for detailed protocol speciÔ¨Åcation
and analysis.
7
Implementation and Evaluation
7.1
HintlessPIR Implementation
We implemented14 NTTlessPIR with preprocessing optimization and applied it
to SimplePIR. For SimplePIR, the main constraint is to choose the modulus Q ‚àà
{232, 264} such that one can directly compute arithmetic in hardware; so we set
secret key dimension15 N = 1408, ciphertext modulus Q = 232, error standard
deviation œÉ = 6.4, and sample the LWE secret key from the uniform ternary
distribution. We set our RLWE parameters as n = 212, ciphertext modulus
q ‚âà290, and error standard deviation 3.2 for both the RLWE secret key and the
error terms. Both LWE and RLWE parameters are at the 128-bit security level
with up to 230 samples [2]. The ‚Ñì‚àûnorm of the LWE decryption vector H ¬∑s can
be bounded by 242, where H = DB ¬∑ A mod Q is the hint matrix. So, we choose
14 https://github.com/google/hintless pir.
15 We set N higher than the one proposed in [33] according to latest lattice attack
estimates.

Hintless Single-Server Private Information Retrieval
209
two NTT-friendly plaintext moduli p0, p1 of 22 bits each for CRT decomposing
H and s. Note that our RLWE parameters can also handle the alternative LWE
parameters suggested in [32] with secret dimension N = 2048, which may have
diÔ¨Äerent eÔ¨Éciency tradeoÔ¨Äs for very large database dimensions. Due to space
constraint we report only on the smaller LWE parameters.
Our NTTlessPIR scheme implementation is based on the Residue Number
System (RNS) variant of Brakerski/Fan-Vercauteren (BFV) FHE scheme that
supports linear homomorphic operations. In particular, we implemented all the
preprocessing optimizations of Sect. 3. Our RLWE parameters provide 4096 slots
in each plaintext polynomial, so we pack two copies of s in the query ciphertexts.
Correspondingly, we pad H to H‚Ä≤ = [H | 0] of 2048 columns, and we pack two
diagonals of each 1024 √ó 2048 block of H in each plaintext polynomial. For each
pj, this packing strategy reduces the number of rotations to 511, and reduces
the number of ciphertext-plaintext multiplications by half.
7.2
HintlessPIR Evaluation
We benchmarked several typical database dimensions, with sizes up to 8.59 GB:
1) one million small records (8 bytes and 256 bytes each) as common baselines for
PIR [3,39]; 2) up to 1 billion small records; and 3) smaller number of moderate-
size records (32 KB each and 8.59 GB total). We ran our server program on
an AWS r7iz.4xlarge instance with Intel Sapphire Rapids CPUs running at
3.00 GHz and with 128 GB RAM. We took advantage of the SIMD instruction
sets such as AVX-512, and compiled our test program using clang 16 and exe-
cuted it using a single thread. We also benchmarked the public implementations
of SimplePIR and DoublePIR [46], Spiral [10], as well as Tiptoe PIR [48], using
the same testing environment.
The LWE plaintext space is about 8 to 10 bits for databases up to 238 records.
For large database records, we follow the suggestion in [33] to encode each record
using d > 1 LWE plaintext elements and vertically stack them in a column of the
database matrix DB. In [33], this minimizes the hint size; and for NTTlessPIR,
this minimizes both the response size and the server online time.
For communication cost, a NTTlessPIR query is 323 KB (which includes two
compressed ciphertexts and a compressed rotation key), and its response size
scales roughly with
‚àö
dN, which is asymptotically the same as in SimplePIR.
Comparing with SimplePIR, a pair of NTTlessPIR query and response is only
about 1% of SimplePIR hint for all databases we measured except the Ô¨Årst (very
small) database of dimension 220 √ó 8 bytes. Comparing with [32], a NTTlessPIR
query is roughly 1.5% of the RLWE part of a Tiptoe PIR query.
In terms of computation overhead, it takes 102 ms to homomorphically gen-
erate all rotations of s (mod pj) for each pj, which is a one-time cost indepen-
dent of the database dimension. The homomorphic matrix-vector multiplication
proceeds over each 1024 √ó N block of H. The time for the client to recover
the PIR answer remains inexpensive in our benchmarks, taking no more than
50ms for databases up to 1 GB and 145 ms for 8 GB databases. Comparing with

210
B. Li et al.
Table 1. Communication costs of HintlessPIR, Tiptoe PIR, SimplePIR, DoublePIR,
and Spiral, for several typical database dimensions. For HintlessPIR, a query includes
two RLWE ciphertexts and a rotation key as well as a LWEPIR query vector, and a
response includes RLWE ciphertexts encrypting DB ¬∑ A ¬∑ s and the LWEPIR response
vector. For Tiptoe PIR, a query contains N RLWE ciphertexts as well as a LWEPIR
query vector. For Spiral, the parameter includes key materials for expanding RLWE
encryptions into RGSW ciphertexts.
Database (total size)
220 √ó 8B
(8 MB)
220 √ó 256B
(268 MB)
226 √ó 8B
(537 MB)
230 √ó 1B
(1.07 GB)
218 √ó 32 KB
(8.59 GB)
HintlessPIR
Query Size
334 KB
388 KB
415 KB
453 KB
1502 KB
Response Size
288 KB
1540 KB
2212 KB
3080 KB
3080 KB
Tiptoe PIR
Query Size
23 MB
23 MB
23 MB
23 MB
24 MB
Response Size
333 KB
1336 KB
2002 KB
2671 KB
2925 KB
SimplePIR
Hint Size
16 MB
92 MB
131 MB
185 MB
185 MB
Query Size
12 KB
66 KB
93 KB
131 KB
1180 KB
Response Size
12 KB
66 KB
93 KB
131 KB
117 KB
DoublePIR
Hint Size
242 MB
6897 MB
242 MB
31 MB
874 GB
Query Size
352 KB
352 KB
354 KB
398 KB
352 KB
Response Size
352 KB
10035 KB
352 KB
44 KB
1273 MB
Spiral
Parameter Size
8 MB
8 MB
9 MB
9 MB
10 MB
Query Size
16 KB
16 KB
16 KB
16 KB
16 KB
Response Size
21 KB
21 KB
21 KB
21 KB
61 KB
Tiptoe PIR, we see that HintlessPIR runs faster for all databases we bench-
marked, despite that the Tiptoe PIR implementation uses a smaller RLWE
parameter. This is probably because half of the ciphertext polynomials in the
NTTlessPIR response are precomputed oÔ¨Ñine and a faster RLWE implementation
in NTTlessPIR. We summarize the communication and computation overhead of
HintlessPIR in Tables 1 and 2.
Bandwidth and Latency of Making a Few Queries. One of the advantages of
HintlessPIR is the absence of oÔ¨Ñine interaction between the client and the server,
which makes it very appealing for situations where the client only makes a few
queries before the database is updated. We show in Fig. 5 the bandwidth and
latency of a new client making its initial query to databases using HintlessPIR,
SimplePIR, and Spiral. To measure latency we model the connection using
median upload and download speeds for mobile devices in the US, which are
85.32 Mbps and 8.34 Mbps respectively as of August 202316. For all the database
dimensions we consider, HintlessPIR has lower cost when making the Ô¨Årst query
than the other three protocols. Comparing with Spiral, HintlessPIR maintains
this bandwidth advantage for the Ô¨Årst 3 to 5 queries, and always has smaller
16 https://www.speedtest.net/global-index/united-states.

Hintless Single-Server Private Information Retrieval
211
Table 2. Computational costs of HintlessPIR, Tiptoe PIR, SimplePIR, DoublePIR, and
Spiral, on several typical database dimensions. The server throughput is computed as
database size/server online time. For SimplePIR, the server preprocessing time includes
generating the LWEPIR hint matrix. For HintlessPIR, the server preprocessing time addi-
tionally includes the preprocessing time for NTTlessPIR, and the client recovery time
includes decrypting the server response and deriving the PIR answer. For DoublePIR,
the server preprocessing time includes generating its two hint matrices, which ran out
of memory for the largest database. For Tiptoe PIR, server preprocessing is identical to
SimplePIR, and we reused the measured numbers to highlight this. For Spiral, we also
measured the time for the client to generate the oÔ¨Ñine parameters (i.e. key materials).
Database (total size)
220 √ó 8B
(8 MB)
220 √ó 256B
(268 MB)
226 √ó 8B
(537 MB)
230 √ó 1B
(1.07 GB)
218 √ó 32 KB
(8.59 GB)
HintlessPIR
Server Online Time
233 ms
385 ms
478 ms
613 ms
1347 ms
Server Throughput
35 MB/s
698 MB/s
1122 MB/s
1750 MB/s
6376 MB/s
Server Preproc. Time
3.11 s
51.57 s
93.58 s
199.15 s
2128 s
Client Recovery time
4.78 ms
25.50 ms
36.66 ms
51.00 ms
52.32 ms
Tiptoe PIR
Server Online Time
295 ms
963 ms
1393 ms
1890 ms
2675 ms
Server Throughput
28 MB/s
278 MB/s
385 MB/s
568 MB/s
3211 MB/s
Server Preproc. Time
0.96 s
46.39 s
85.24 s
188.03 s
2116 s
Client Recovery time
1.69 ms
7.69 ms
10.81 ms
14.67 ms
15.28 ms
SimplePIR
Server Online Time
0.75 ms
28 ms
53 ms
105 ms
841 ms
Server Throughput
11201 MB/s
9675 MB/s
10046 MB/s
10268 MB/s
10213 MB/s
Server Preproc. Time
0.96 s
45.39 s
85.24 s
188.03 s
2116 s
DoublePIR
Server Online Time
1.19 ms
29 ms
58 ms
113 ms
1120 ms
Server Throughput
7046 MB/s
9340 MB/s
9288 MB/s
9506 MB/s
7672 MB/s
Server Preproc. Time
4.03 s
110.57 s
241.46 s
485.53 s
‚Äì
Spiral
Server Online Time
691 ms
694 ms
1229 ms
2319 ms
12769 ms
Server Throughput
12 MB/s
387 MB/s
436 MB/s
463 MB/s
673 MB/s
Client Parameter
Generation Time
139 ms
193 ms
326 ms
326 ms
326 ms
latency. Comparing with SimplePIR, HintlessPIR has lower latency for making
up to 10 queries except for the smallest database while the communication cost
is always lower for up to 75 queries. We note that, in terms of latency, the triv-
ial PIR protocol is better than SimplePIR and Spiral for the smallest database
while worse than HintlessPIR.
Parallelization. In previous protocols based on RLWE homomorphic encryp-
tion, it is sometimes hard to fully take advantage of parallelism (e.g. speedup
a factor k using k more processors) due to memory I/O bottlenecks from con-
verting between evaluation and coeÔ¨Écient forms. With our NTT precomputa-
tion optimization, the server‚Äôs online algorithm consists of point-wise additions
and multiplications of vectors, which are much less memory-intensive than the
previously-described protocols, and have simple (and predictable) memory access
patterns. So, we tuned our implementation to use all four CPU cores: the Ô¨Årst
step of NTTlessPIR‚Äôs online algorithm is distributed to two threads, one per
plaintext modulus, and the second step to four threads. In addition, we also par-
allelized our SimplePIR implementation in four threads. See Table 3 for latency

212
B. Li et al.
Fig. 5. The communication cost and roundtrip latency of using HintlessPIR, Tiptoe
PIR, SimplePIR, and Spiral to make the initial query on several databases. We assume
the download speed is 85.32 Mbps and the upload speed is 8.34 Mbps, which are the
median mobile device speeds in the US in August 2023. For SimplePIR, we account
for the cost of downloading the hint from the server and making a single query. For
Spiral, we account for the cost of uploading the parameters to the server and making
a single query. For the Ô¨Årst three databases, we also include the latency of the trivial
solution that downloads the entire database. All graphs are in the log scale.
Table 3. Multi-threading computational costs of HintlessPIR and SimplePIR, on sev-
eral typical database dimensions. The server throughput is computed as database
size/server online time.
Database (total size)
220 √ó 8B
(8 MB)
220 √ó 256B
(268 MB)
226 √ó 8B
(537 MB)
230 √ó 1B
(1.07 GB)
218 √ó 32 KB
(8.59 GB)
HintlessPIR
Online Time
(Four Thread)
115 ms
162 ms
193 ms
232 ms
418 ms
Throughput
0.07 GB/s
1.66 GB/s
2.78 GB/s
4.62 GB/s
20.53 GB/s
SimplePIR
Online Time
(Four Threads)
0.30 ms
7 ms
14 ms
27 ms
213 ms
Throughput
28.15 GB/s
38.78 GB/s
39.22 GB/s
40.36 GB/s
40.42 GB/s
and throughput with multi-threading. Our benchmark results show that we were
able to take advantage of all CPU cores available in the test environment, espe-
cially for large databases. One can expect to further parallelize our protocol on
more powerful CPUs. In particular, it seems easier to accelerate our protocol
using GPUs with powerful SIMD capacity.
7.3
TensorPIR
While asymptotically TensorPIR provides better communication than HintlessPIR
and better computation than Spiral, Ô¨Ånding concrete parameters where this
asymptotic behavior becomes apparent is much more challenging. Next we try
to give intuition why this is and provide estimates for the settings when the
concrete eÔ¨Éciency of TensorPIR becomes competitive.
For the databases in Tables 1 and 2, TensorPIR does not have advantage
over HintlessPIR for either computation and communication. This is because we
need to use larger RLWE parameters and more CRT plaintext moduli. In more

Hintless Single-Server Private Information Retrieval
213
detail, if we want to use the same LWE parameters as the ones for HintlessPIR in
Sect. 7.1, TensorPIR requires an RLWE modulus for supporting depth-2 homo-
morphic computation over 20-bit plaintext space. To reduce communication cost,
we let the client send two Galois keys for the server to generate all log du many
Galois keys needed for ciphertext expansion, where the error size of the com-
posed Galois keys is at least 215‚ÑìB (for composing ‚Ñìtimes with gadget quality
B). As a result, we estimate the RLWE modulus size is at least 150 bits when
using a gadget of quality 8 bits, and so the ring degree is at least 213.
To Ô¨Ånd a parameter regime where TensorPIR is concretely competitive, we
need to consider much bigger databases. We estimate that for databases of
size 240 with 1 byte records that TensorPIR has server running time close to
HintlessPIR and with smaller communication cost. We performed experiments
on the core components of TensorPIR with the help of the preprocessing opti-
mization, where we set the ring degree to n = 213, ciphertext modulus q ‚âà2144,
and sub-dimensions du = 27, dv = 221, dw = 212. Based on these micro bench-
marks, we expect TensorPIR to have server throughput roughly 8.3 GB/s and
total communication 37.6 MB for each query. On the same database, we expect
HintlessPIR to have server throughput about 9.1 GB/s and total communication
103 MB, Tiptoe PIR to have throughput 6.57 GB/s and total communication
115 MB, and Spiral‚Äôs server throughput will be roughly 667 MB/s with total
online communication 17 MB17.
8
Conclusion
We presented two new PIR schemes with neither client-dependent preprocessed
state on the server nor database-dependent preprocessed state on the client. With
the composable preprocessing optimization, we were able to achieve concretely
fast server processing time in our Ô¨Årst construction, HintlessPIR, namely up to
60% of the throughput of Simple PIR, and up to 9.4√ó higher throughput than
Spiral PIR. Our communication cost is consistently small, improving on total
communication costs (compared to Simple PIR and Spiral PIR) in settings where
many clients are making few queries each.
In terms of preprocessing in homomorphic encryption, so far we have been
able to apply it to basic homomorphic operations and gadget-based key switch-
ing. It seems very interesting to extend such technique to additional homomor-
phic operations and constructions. For example, it seems nontrivial to apply this
technique to the GHS [24] variant of key-switching. In addition, it may be useful
to apply composable preprocessing to other protocols to improve both online
computation and communication.
17 For Spiral, we could not Ô¨Ånd parameters that natively support this database on
the public Spiral implementation; so we shard the database into smaller ones and
estimated Spiral‚Äôs performance when running sequentially on the sub-databases.

214
B. Li et al.
References
1. Ahmad, I., Yang, Y., Agrawal, D., Abbadi, A.E., Gupta, T.: Addra: metadata-
private voice communication over fully untrusted infrastructure. In: Brown, A.D.,
Lorch, J.R. (eds.) 15th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and
Implementation, OSDI 2021, 14‚Äì16 July 2021 (2021)
2. Albrecht, M.R., Player, R., Scott, S.: On the concrete hardness of learning with
errors. J. Math. Cryptol. 9(3), 169‚Äì203 (2015). http://www.degruyter.com/view/
j/jmc.2015.9.issue-3/jmc-2015-0016/jmc-2015-0016.xml
3. Ali, A., et al.: Communication-computation trade-oÔ¨Äs in PIR. In: Bailey, M.,
Greenstadt, R. (eds.) USENIX Security 2021: 30th USENIX Security Symposium,
pp. 1811‚Äì1828. USENIX Association, 11‚Äì13 August 2021
4. Angel, S., Chen, H., Laine, K., Setty, S.: PIR with compressed queries and amor-
tized query processing. In: 2018 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP)
(2018)
5. Angel, S., Setty, S.: Unobservable communication over fully untrusted infrastruc-
ture. In: 12th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implemen-
tation (OSDI 2016) (2016)
6. Apple: icloud private relay overview (2021). https://www.apple.com/icloud/docs/
iCloud Private Relay Overview Dec2021.pdf
7. Artioli,
S.:
How
practical
is
single-server
private
information
retrieval?
(2023).
https://ethz.ch/content/dam/ethz/special-interest/infk/inst-infsec/
appliedcrypto/education/theses/How practical is single server private
information retrieval corrected.pdf
8. Backes, M., Kate, A., MaÔ¨Äei, M., Pecina, K.: ObliviAd: provably secure and prac-
tical online behavioral advertising. In: 2012 IEEE Symposium on Security and
Privacy (2012)
9. Beimel, A., Ishai, Y., Malkin, T.: Reducing the servers computation in private
information retrieval: PIR with preprocessing. In: Bellare, M. (ed.) CRYPTO 2000.
LNCS, vol. 1880, pp. 55‚Äì73. Springer, Heidelberg (2000). https://doi.org/10.1007/
3-540-44598-6 4
10. blyss SDK for accessing data privately using homomorphic encryption (2023).
https://github.com/blyssprivacy/sdk
11. Borisov, N., Danezis, G., Goldberg, I.: DP5: a private presence service. Proc. Priv.
Enhancing Technol. (2015)
12. Boyle, E., Gilboa, N., Ishai, Y.: Function secret sharing: improvements and exten-
sions. In: Proceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and
Communications Security, CCS 2016 (2016)
13. Cachin, C., Micali, S., Stadler, M.: Computationally private information retrieval
with polylogarithmic communication. In: Stern, J. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 1999.
LNCS, vol. 1592, pp. 402‚Äì414. Springer, Heidelberg (1999). https://doi.org/10.
1007/3-540-48910-X 28
14. Chen, H., Chillotti, I., Ren, L.: Onion ring ORAM: eÔ¨Écient constant bandwidth
oblivious RAM from (leveled) TFHE. In: Cavallaro, L., Kinder, J., Wang, X., Katz,
J. (eds.) ACM CCS 2019: 26th Conference on Computer and Communications
Security, London, UK, 11‚Äì15 November 2019, pp. 345‚Äì360. ACM Press (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1145/3319535.3354226
15. Chor, B., Goldreich, O., Kushilevitz, E., Sudan, M.: Private information retrieval.
In: 36th Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science, Milwaukee,
Wisconsin, USA, 23‚Äì25 October 1995 (1995)

Hintless Single-Server Private Information Retrieval
215
16. Corrigan-Gibbs, H., Henzinger, A., Kogan, D.: Single-server private information
retrieval with sublinear amortized time. In: Dunkelman, O., Dziembowski, S. (eds.)
EUROCRYPT 2022, Part II. LNCS, vol. 13276, pp. 3‚Äì33. Springer, Heidelberg
(2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-07085-3 1
17. Corrigan-Gibbs, H., Kogan, D.: Private information retrieval with sublinear online
time. In: Canteaut, A., Ishai, Y. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2020, Part I. LNCS, vol.
12105, pp. 44‚Äì75. Springer, Heidelberg (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
45721-1 3
18. Davidson, A., Pestana, G., Celi, S.: FrodoPIR: simple, scalable, single-server pri-
vate information retrieval. Proc. Priv. Enhanc. Technol. 2023(1), 365‚Äì383 (2023).
https://doi.org/10.56553/popets-2023-0022
19. Davidson, A., Pestana, G., Celi, S.: FrodoPIR: simple, scalable, single-server pri-
vate information retrieval. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2022/981 (2022).
https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/981
20. Devet, C., Goldberg, I., Heninger, N.: Optimally robust private information
retrieval. In: Kohno, T. (ed.) Proceedings of the 21th USENIX Security Sym-
posium, Bellevue, WA, USA, 8‚Äì10 August 2012. USENIX Association (2012)
21. Dvir, Z., Gopi, S.: 2-server PIR with subpolynomial communication. J. ACM
(JACM) 63(4), 1‚Äì15 (2016)
22. Genise, N., Micciancio, D., Polyakov, Y.: Building an eÔ¨Écient lattice gadget toolkit:
subgaussian sampling and more. In: Ishai, Y., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EUROCRYPT
2019, Part II. LNCS, vol. 11477, pp. 655‚Äì684. Springer, Heidelberg (2019). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-17656-3 23
23. Gentry, C., Halevi, S.: Compressible FHE with applications to PIR. In: Theory of
Cryptography: 17th International Conference, TCC 2019 (2019)
24. Gentry, C., Halevi, S., Smart, N.P.: Homomorphic evaluation of the AES circuit. In:
Safavi-Naini, R., Canetti, R. (eds.) CRYPTO 2012. LNCS, vol. 7417, pp. 850‚Äì867.
Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-32009-5 49
25. Gentry, C., Ramzan, Z.: Single-database private information retrieval with con-
stant communication rate. In: Proceedings of the 32nd International Conference
on Automata, Languages and Programming, ICALP 2005, pp. 803‚Äì815 (2005)
26. Gentry, C., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Homomorphic encryption from learning with
errors: conceptually-simpler, asymptotically-faster, attribute-based. In: Canetti,
R., Garay, J.A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2013, Part I. LNCS, vol. 8042, pp. 75‚Äì92. Springer,
Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-40041-4 5
27. Google: VPN by Google One. https://one.google.com/about/vpn
28. Google: Privacy sandbox IP protection proposal (2023). https://developer.chrome.
com/en/docs/privacy-sandbox/ip-protection/
29. Green, M., Ladd, W., Miers, I.: A protocol for privately reporting ad impressions
at scale. In: CCS 2016 (2016)
30. Halevi, S., Shoup, V.: Algorithms in HElib. In: Garay, J.A., Gennaro, R. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2014, Part I. LNCS, vol. 8616, pp. 554‚Äì571. Springer, Heidelberg (2014).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-44371-2 31
31. Henry, R.: Polynomial batch codes for eÔ¨Écient IT-PIR. Proc. Priv. Enhancing
Technol. 2016(4), 202‚Äì218 (2016)
32. Henzinger, A., Dauterman, E., Corrigan-Gibbs, H., Zeldovich, N.: Private web
search with tiptoe. In: Proceedings of the the 29th ACM Symposium on Operating
Systems Principles (2023)
33. Henzinger, A., Hong, M.M., Corrigan-Gibbs, H., Meiklejohn, S., Vaikuntanathan,
V.: One server for the price of two: simple and fast single-server private infor-

216
B. Li et al.
mation retrieval. In: Calandrino, J.A., Troncoso, C. (eds.) 32nd USENIX Security
Symposium, USENIX Security 2023, Anaheim, CA, USA, 9‚Äì11 August 2023 (2023)
34. Kogan, D., Corrigan-Gibbs, H.: Private blocklist lookups with checklist. In: 30th
USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 2021) (2021)
35. Kushilevitz, E., Ostrovsky, R.: Replication is NOT needed: SINGLE database,
computationally-private information retrieval. In: 38th Annual Symposium on
Foundations of Computer Science, FOCS 1997, Miami Beach, Florida, USA, 19‚Äì22
October 1997 (1997)
36. Lazzaretti, A., Papamanthou, C.: TreePIR: sublinear-time and polylog-bandwidth
private information retrieval from DDH. In: Handschuh, H., Lysyanskaya, A. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2023, Part II. LNCS, vol. 14082, pp. 284‚Äì314. Springer, Cham (2023).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-38545-2 10
37. Lin, W., Mook, E., Wichs, D.: Doubly eÔ¨Écient private information retrieval and
fully homomorphic RAM computation from ring LWE. In: Saha, B., Servedio, R.A.
(eds.) Proceedings of the 55th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing,
STOC 2023, Orlando, FL, USA, 20‚Äì23 June 2023
38. Melchor, C.A., Barrier, J., Fousse, L., Killijian, M.: XPIR: private information
retrieval for everyone. Proc. Priv. Enhanc. Technol. (2016)
39. Menon, S.J., Wu, D.J.: SPIRAL: fast, high-rate single-server PIR via FHE com-
position. In: 2022 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, San Francisco, CA,
USA, 22‚Äì26 May 2022, pp. 930‚Äì947. IEEE Computer Society Press (2022). https://
doi.org/10.1109/SP46214.2022.9833700
40. Mittal, P., OlumoÔ¨Ån, F., Troncoso, C., Borisov, N., Goldberg, I.: PIR-Tor: scalable
anonymous communication using private information retrieval. In: 20th USENIX
Security Symposium (USENIX Security 2011) (2011)
41. Mughees, M.H., Chen, H., Ren, L.: OnionPIR: response eÔ¨Écient single-server PIR.
In: Proceedings of the 2021 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Commu-
nications Security, CCS 2021 (2021)
42. Patel, S., Persiano, G., Yeo, K.: Private stateful information retrieval. In: Proceed-
ings of the 2018 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications
Security, CCS 2018 (2018)
43. Peikert, C., Vaikuntanathan, V., Waters, B.: A framework for eÔ¨Écient and compos-
able oblivious transfer. In: Wagner, D. (ed.) CRYPTO 2008. LNCS, vol. 5157, pp.
554‚Äì571. Springer, Heidelberg (2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-85174-
5 31
44. Peikert, C., Waters, B.: Lossy trapdoor functions and their applications. In: Ladner,
R.E., Dwork, C. (eds.) 40th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing,
Victoria, BC, Canada, 17‚Äì20 May 2008, pp. 187‚Äì196. ACM Press (2008). https://
doi.org/10.1145/1374376.1374406
45. Regev, O.: On lattices, learning with errors, random linear codes, and cryptogra-
phy. In: Gabow, H.N., Fagin, R. (eds.) 37th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of
Computing, Baltimore, MA, USA, 22‚Äì24 May 2005, pp. 84‚Äì93. ACM Press (2005).
https://doi.org/10.1145/1060590.1060603
46. The reference implementation of SimplePIR and DoublePIR (2023). https://
github.com/ahenzinger/simplepir
47. Thomas, K., et al.: Protecting accounts from credential stuÔ¨Éng with password
breach alerting. In: Heninger, N., Traynor, P. (eds.) 28th USENIX Security Sym-
posium, USENIX Security 2019, Santa Clara, CA, USA, 14‚Äì16 August 2019 (2019)
48. Tiptoe‚Äôs linearly homomorphic encryption scheme (2023). https://github.com/
ahenzinger/underhood

Hintless Single-Server Private Information Retrieval
217
49. Tor: The tor project. https://www.torproject.org/
50. Vershynin, R.: High-Dimensional Probability: An Introduction with Applications
in Data Science, vol. 47. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge (2018)
51. Yeo, K.: Lower bounds for (batch) PIR with private preprocessing. In: Hazay,
C., Stam, M. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2023, Part I. LNCS, vol. 14004, pp. 518‚Äì550.
Springer, Heidelberg (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-30545-0 18
52. Zhou, M., Park, A., Zheng, W., Shi, E.: Piano: extremely simple, single-
server PIR with sublinear server computation. In: 2024 IEEE Symposium
on Security and Privacy (SP), Los Alamitos, CA, USA, p. 55. IEEE Com-
puter Society, May 2024. https://doi.org/10.1109/SP54263.2024.00055. https://
doi.ieeecomputersociety.org/10.1109/SP54263.2024.00055

