How to Prove Statements Obliviously?
Sanjam Garg1, Aarushi Goel2(B), and Mingyuan Wang1
1 University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, USA
{sanjamg,mingyuan}@berkeley.edu
2 NTT Research, Sunnyvale, USA
aarushi.goel@ntt-research.com
Abstract. Cryptographic applications often require proving statements
about hidden secrets satisfying certain circuit relations. Moreover, these
proofs must often be generated obliviously, i.e., without knowledge of
the secret. This work presents a new technique called—FRI on hidden
values—for eﬃciently proving such statements. This technique enables a
polynomial commitment scheme for values hidden inside linearly homo-
morphic primitives, such as linearly homomorphic encryption, linearly
homomorphic commitment, group exponentiation, fully homomorphic
encryption, etc. Building on this technique, we obtain the following
results.
1. An eﬃcient SNARK for proving the honest evaluation of FHE cipher-
texts. This allows for an eﬃciently veriﬁable private delegation of
computation, where the client only needs to perform logarithmic
many FHE computations to verify the correctness of the compu-
tation.
2. An eﬃcient approach for privately delegating the computation of
zkSNARKs to a single untrusted server, without requiring the server
to make any non-black-box use of cryptography. All prior works
require multiple servers and the assumption that some subset of the
servers are honest.
3. A weighted threshold signature scheme that does not require any
setup. In particular, parties may sample their own keys indepen-
dently, and no distributed key generation (DKG) protocol is needed.
Furthermore, the eﬃciency of our scheme is completely independent
of the weights.
Prior to this work, there were no known black-box feasibility results for
any of these applications. We also investigate the use of this approach in
the context of public proof aggregation. These are only a few representa-
tive applications that we explore in this paper. We expect our techniques
to be widely applicable in many other scenarios.
1
Introduction
Succinct Non-interactive Arguments of Knowledge (SNARKs) [Kil92,Mic94,
BCC+17] allow a prover to generate extremely short proofs, certifying the valid-
ity of NP statements. Zero-Knowledge SNARKs (or zkSNARKs for short) addi-
tionally guarantee that the proof hides the prover’s secret witness. Furthermore,
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2024
L. Reyzin and D. Stebila (Eds.): CRYPTO 2024, LNCS 14929, pp. 449–487, 2024.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-68403-6_14

450
S. Garg et al.
these certiﬁcates can be veriﬁed quite eﬃciently. Over the last decade, signiﬁcant
research has been dedicated towards improving the asymptotic and concrete eﬃ-
ciency [Gro16,BCG+17,BCG+18,XZZ+19,GWC19,Set20,BCG20a,CHM+20,
Lee21,KMP20,ZLW+21,BCL22] of zkSNARKs. This eﬀort has resulted in
very practical zkSNARK systems with widespread real-world deployment (e.g.,
see [Gro16,BBHR18,GWC19]). Known zkSNARK constructions are based
on a variety of computational and setup assumptions. Additionally, these
constructions oﬀer a whole gamut of performance tradeoﬀs in terms of
proof generation cost [BBHR18,GLS+21,Plo21,XZS22,KPV22,CBBZ23], proof
size [Gro10,GGPR13,PHGR13,Gro16,GWC19], and veriﬁcation time [Gro16,
GWC19,CHM+20,KPV22]. These practical constructions have opened a ﬂood-
gate of new applications (see, for example, [BCG+14,KGC+18,ZFZS20,ZkR21,
RPX+22,GHAH+23]).
Proving Statements with Hidden Secrets Eﬃciently. Some important
applications of zkSNARKs are those that involve checking some relationship
between cryptographic group elements, cryptographic public keys, etc. For exam-
ple, given inputs {xi} and group elements {hi = gyi}, consider a prover gen-
erating a zkSNARK to prove that a = 
i hxi
i
has been generated correctly. In
such cases, the prover may not have direct access to the cryptographic secret;
i.e., {yi} values in our example and is therefore left with directly proving a rela-
tionship between a and the hi values. This typically involves unrolling these
cryptographic operations (in this case, group exponentiation) as a circuit in a
non-black-box manner—leading to impractical constructions. We stress that we
are interested in designing eﬃcient zkSNARKs for such cases where the crypto-
graphic secrets are not known to the prover.1 Based on this, we ask:
Can we design eﬃcient SNARKs
for proving statements involving hidden values?
1.1
Our Contribution
We present a general approach, namely FRI on hidden values, that is speciﬁcally
tailored to answer the above question. Our work builds upon and extends the
renowned Fast Reed-Solomon Interactive (FRI) oracle proof of proximity pro-
tocol [BBHR18,BGKS20,BCI+20,BCKL22]. In particular, our technique yields
the following main result.
Succinct Polynomial Commitment for Hidden Values. Consider a poly-
nomial f(x) = f0 +f1 ·x+· · ·+fd ·xd for some f0, . . . , fd ∈F. Let f0 , . . . , fd
be some encapsulations2 of f0, . . . , fd, which satisﬁes linear homomorphism (see
1 If these secrets are available to the prover, then various approaches can help provide
eﬃcient constructions, e.g., sigma protocols [Sch90], bulletproofs [BBB+18], etc.
2 For instance, m could be a linearly homomorphic encryption of m, a linearly homo-
morphic commitment of m, group exponentiation (i.e., m = gm), or fully homo-
morphic encryption of m. We stress that this encapsulation could either be hiding
(e.g., encryption/commitment) or not hiding (e.g., group exponentiation).

How to Prove Statements Obliviously?
451
Sect. 4.1 for a formal deﬁnition). For a committer, who only has access to these
encapsulations f0 , . . . , fd, we present a succinct polynomial commitment for
the polynomial f(x). It is a polynomial commitment scheme in that, given any
(public) input x∗, the committer can compute an encapsulation f(x∗) and a
succinct proof certifying that f(x∗) is the encapsulation of an honest evalua-
tion3 of the committed polynomial at x = x∗. Notably, this scheme only makes
black-box use of the underlying encapsulation scheme.
Our polynomial commitment is based on the standard FRI-based polynomial
commitment scheme [BGKS20]. In particular, we ﬁrst show how the FRI protocol
can be generalized to work on hidden values and then use it to design a polyno-
mial commitment scheme for hidden polynomials. The eﬃciency of our scheme
is similar to the standard FRI-based polynomial commitment scheme. In partic-
ular, the size of the commitment is O(1); the time to generate proofs of openings
is O(d); the proof size is O(log2 d); and the veriﬁcation time is O(log2 d).4
This versatile tool, resulting from a seemingly simple observation, immedi-
ately gives rise to a wide range of applications. We explore a few representative
applications in this paper. We stress that, prior to our work, there were no known
black-box feasibility results for all of these applications.
Application I: Eﬃciently Veriﬁable Private Delegation of Computa-
tion. Consider the problem of veriﬁable private delegation of computation, where
a client holds some input x and wants to delegate an expensive (public) com-
putation C on x to a cloud server. Furthermore, it wants the server to append
a proof certifying that it did the computation honestly. A standard approach
for this task involves sending fully homomorphic encryptions (FHE) [Gen09]
Enc(x) of the client’s input x to the server, which performs computations on
these ciphertexts and returns the resulting ciphertext C(Enc(x)). In the end, the
client can locally decrypt this resulting ciphertext to learn the output C(x). How-
ever, while this solution ensures privacy, it oﬀers no integrity regarding whether
or not the computation was done honestly. One potentially simple way to add
integrity would be to ask the server to provide a short proof (a.k.a., a SNARK
proof) attesting to the validity of the computation. However, this inevitably
requires making non-black-box uses of the FHE scheme.
Utilizing our technique for FRI on hidden values, we present the ﬁrst eﬃcient
solution for this problem. Our scheme incurs minimal overhead for the server on
top of the necessary work of computing C on the FHE ciphertexts Enc(x).
At a high level, our idea is to adapt existing polynomial IOP-based SNARK
proof systems in order to allow the server to generate a proof certifying that
computation C on encrypted values was performed honestly, without making
non-black-box use of the FHE scheme. For this, we crucially rely on our poly-
nomial commitment scheme that allows the server to commit to polynomials
3 Note that the prover is able to compute this evaluation because of the linear homo-
morphism of the encapsulation scheme.
4 To be precise, the proof size and veriﬁcation time is O(log2 d · λ), where λ is the
security parameter. Throughout the paper, this λ factor is implicitly assumed in the
proof size of all FRI-based SNARKs.

452
S. Garg et al.
deﬁned by values encrypted inside the FHE ciphertexts. Our succinct proof is
privately veriﬁable in that one needs the FHE secret key for veriﬁcation. This
is not an issue since the client does hold the secret key. When applied to the
state-of-the-art SNARK proof system (e.g., Fractal [COS20]),5 we achieve the
following eﬃciency.
– Apart from the necessary computation C on the FHE ciphertext Enc(x) to
obtain C(Enc(x)), the server only needs to perform O(|C|·log |C|) FHE eval-
uations (with constant multiplicative depth) for proof generation.
– Similar to any polynomial IOP-based SNARKs instantiated with FRI-based
polynomial commitment scheme, the proof size is O(log2 |C|) and veriﬁcation
time is O(log2 |C|).
To facilitate fast veriﬁcation (as is the case with all SNARKs with sublinear
veriﬁcation time), a one-time deterministic preprocessing of time O(|C| · log |C|)
is required.6 We emphasize that this preprocessing is only for the arithmetization
of the circuit C. In particular, it is independent of the FHE scheme. Furthermore,
this one-time preprocessing can be reused for an arbitrary number of times (e.g.,
if the client wishes to delegate many instances of the same computation C to
the server).
We remark that a black-box solution for this problem is extremely desirable.
Suppose one aims to use FHE to delegate a computation represented by a circuit
C. The computation that an FHE evaluation algorithm employs to realize C,
is a much bigger circuit C′. A non-black-box approach would require applying
existing SNARKs to the circuit C′, resulting in a multiplicative overhead. Our
approach involves applying existing SNARKs directly to circuit C (instead of
C′), by leveraging homomorphism to generate the proof obliviously – thereby
avoiding this multiplicative overhead. In particular, our FRI on hidden values
would require |C| log(|C|) linearly homomorphic operations on the ciphertexts
(compared to |C| log(|C|) ﬁeld operations for plain FRI). However, since the
overhead of FHE depends heavily on the sophistication of the supported homo-
morphism, the overhead required for performing low-complexity operations (lin-
ear operation for FRI and constant-depth circuit for the overall SNARK) is quite
minimal compared to the FHE overhead for the evaluation of C.
The only existing (black-box) solutions for this problem [GGP10,AIK10,
CKV10,BGV11] require the client to perform a preprocessing step, where it
computes C on FHE encryptions of λ-many diﬀerent random sets of inputs
(where λ is the security parameter). Unfortunately, this hugely expensive pre-
processing step is inherently not reusable. An alternate approach for making this
preprocessing resuable, requires the server to perform homomorphic evaluations
on FHE encrypted FHE ciphertexts of the form Enc(Enc(x)), which results in
5 Our approach can be combined with any polynomial IOP-based SNARKs. See the
full version [GGW23] for more details.
6 It is typically assumed that this pre-processing is done by a trusted party and the
veriﬁer only gets oracle access to it. However, one could also imagine the client
himself doing this one-time reusable pre-processing.

How to Prove Statements Obliviously?
453
a non-black-box use of the FHE scheme. We refer the reader to Sect. 1.2 for a
more detailed comparison with these works.
Application II: Private Outsourcing of zkSNARKs to a Single Server.
zkSNARKs oﬀer a substantial advantage to veriﬁers due to their succinctness
and eﬃcient veriﬁcation process. However, the generation of zkSNARKs can
be resource-intensive for the prover. Prior works such as [BCG+20b] (for zcash
transactions) and [WZC+18] have explored the idea of delegating these com-
putations to third-party cloud servers to alleviate the prover’s burden. While
these approaches did not focus on privacy, recent works (zkSaaS [GGJ+23]
and EOS [CLMZ23]) have introduced privacy-preserving approaches for dele-
gating zkSNARK computations to external servers. This is achieved by letting
the prover secret share its witness with a number of third-party servers, who then
participate in an MPC protocol to compute the zkSNARK. The main drawback
of delegating zkSNARK generation to multiple servers in this manner, is that it
necessitates trust in at least a subset of the servers—which is highly undesirable.
Alternatively, to avoid this trust assumption, one could use a standard FHE-
based approach to delegate the computation of zkSNARKs to a single untrusted
server. However, this would inevitably result in a non-black-box use of the
zkSNARKs. To the best of our knowledge, no black-box solutions are known for
the problem of private outsourcing of zkSNARKs to a single untrusted server.
We present the ﬁrst solution to this problem, where the server does not make
any non-black-box use of cryptography (while a minimal non-black-box use of
FHE is required on the client side).
At a high level, our idea involves the client sending fully homomorphic encryp-
tions of its secret witness to the server. The server can then perform FHE oper-
ations on these ciphertexts to compute FHE ciphertexts corresponding to the
extended witness and, subsequently, generate a zkSNARK (borrowing ideas used
in our previous application) for this extended witness,7 without being non-black-
box in the FHE and zkSNARK.
We note that, while this approach shares similarities with the previous appli-
cation we discussed, there is a crucial distinction. In the context of veriﬁable pri-
vate delegation of computation, it suﬃces for the server to produce a zkSNARK
at the end that is privately veriﬁable, meaning that only the client, holding the
FHE secret key, can verify the correctness of the computation. However, in the
current application, since we are delegating computation of a zkSNARK, we
require the server’s output to be a publicly veriﬁable zkSNARK. To achieve this,
we make appropriate modiﬁcations by asking the client to augment this proof to
be publicly veriﬁable. In particular, we ask the client to decrypt the ciphertexts
contained in the encrypted zkSNARKs. Moreover, to ensure soundness, we also
require the client to provide zero-knowledge proofs for the honest decryption of
these ciphertexts. This is where the client needs to make a non-black-box use of
7 The process of computing zkSNARKs typically starts with the computation of an
extended witness. This extended witness can be seen as a computation trace gen-
erated by evaluating the relation circuit with the statement and a (short) secret
witness as input.

454
S. Garg et al.
the FHE scheme. Note that since the zkSNARK proof is succinct, the client only
needs to provide such proofs for a polylogarithmic number of ciphertexts. As a
result, our approach results in minimal non-black-box usage of the underlying
FHE scheme. Finally, we note that the client’s assistance is inevitable in making
the proof publicly veriﬁable. Any single-server privacy-preserving delegation of
zkSNARK generation would necessarily require the client’s assistance to make
it publicly veriﬁable.
As before, this approach can be combined with any polynomial IOP-based
zkSNARK. When combined with Fractal [COS20], we achieve the following eﬃ-
ciency: (1) The server performs O(|R| · log |R|) FHE evaluations for generating
a zkSNARK for the NP relation R.8 (2) the size of the resulting zkSNARK is
O(log2 |R|) and veriﬁcation time is also O(log2 |R|).
Aside from avoiding the need to place trust in any third-party server, another
signiﬁcant advantage of our approach over zkSaaS [GGJ+23] and EOS [CLMZ23]
is that the workload and the communication between the server and the client
are independent of the size of the relation circuit. Instead, they depend solely
on the size of the client’s secret witness and the size of the ﬁnal zkSNARK. In
contrast:
– In both zkSaaS and EOS, the extended witness must (1) either be generated
by the client (i.e., the person who wants to outsource zkSNARK computa-
tion), meaning that the client must ﬁrst do work proportional to the size of
the relation circuit and communicate secret shares of this extended witness
to the servers, (2) or it can be generated by the servers using any generic
MPC protocol—this, however, requires the total communication amongst the
servers to grow with the size of the relation circuit and the number of servers.
Furthermore, even aside from generating the extended witness, the total com-
munication required in zkSaaS and EOS still grows with the size of the relation
circuit.
– Moreover, in EOS, the client is required to actively participate and commu-
nicate with the servers throughout the zkSNARK computation. As a result,
in addition to helping with the generation of the extended witness, the total
work done by the client in EOS also grows with the size of the relation circuit.
Lastly, it is important to highlight that our goal in this work is to propose
the ﬁrst black-box feasibility result in the single server setting. Unlike zkSaaS
and EOS, our current approach is primarily of theoretical signiﬁcance. It is an
exciting future research direction to design concretely eﬃcient protocols in the
single server setting.
Application III: Weighted Threshold Signature Without Setup. An
(n, t)-threshold signature scheme enables distributing the signature signing pro-
cess among n parties. It guarantees that any subset of ⩾t parties can generate
a valid signature, while any subset of < t parties cannot forge a valid signature.
8 Speciﬁcally, the server performs O(|R|) FHE evaluations (that have the same mul-
tiplicative depth as R) to generate the extended witness and then O(|R| · log |R|)
additional FHE evaluations with a constant multiplicative depth.

How to Prove Statements Obliviously?
455
The standard way of constructing threshold signature schemes relies on t-out-of-
n linear secret sharing schemes (e.g., Shamir’s secret sharing [Sha79]), where the
secret signing key is shared among n parties. This standard framework suﬀers
from several drawbacks, as discussed below.
1. Need for Interactive Setup. To set up, parties must collectively sample a
secret signing key and the corresponding secret shares, which is usually done
by a multiparty distributed key generation (DKG) protocol. Despite many
years of research [GJKR07,TCZ+20,KMS20,Gro21,DYX+22,GHL22], mul-
tiparty DKG protocol still remains a major eﬃciency bottleneck in practice
due to its high communication/computation and/or synchronous communi-
cation requirement, especially in the malicious setting. This severely hinders
the real-world deployment of threshold signatures for large numbers of par-
ties (e.g., n > 1000). Moreover, this expensive interactive setup needs to
be repeated every time the universe of participating parties or the threshold
changes, which is indeed the case for many real-world scenarios (see, e.g.,
[BGJ+23,GJM+24]).
2. Limitation on More Expressive Policies. Due to the use of linear secret shar-
ing schemes, this framework is not well-suited for more expressive policies9
beyond the (unweighted) threshold access structure. As a prominent exam-
ple, for weighted threshold access structures, linear secret sharing schemes
are highly ineﬃcient [AN21,GJM+23,BHS23], and constructing more eﬃ-
cient weighted threshold signatures has been the focus of many recent
works [MRV+21,CK21,BHS23,GJM+23].
Given these limitations, it is desirable to have a threshold signature scheme
where (1) parties could independently sample their own keys, which completely
eliminates any need for (interactive) setup, and (2) it naturally supports the
weighted access structure without any eﬃciency degradation. We note that
SNARKs do provide a generic solution to this. In particular, each party may
sample its key pair and sign the message. The aggregator may take the signa-
tures signed by individual parties and generate a succinct proof as the aggregated
signature, which certiﬁes that it possesses suﬃciently many (measured by the
cumulative weights) signatures. This generic solution, however, inevitably makes
non-black-box use of the underlying signature schemes. We emphasize that the
requirement of black-box use of the underlying signature schemes is not only of
theoretical interest but also crucial for concrete eﬃciency.
Building upon our FRI on hidden values techniques, we give a black-box solu-
tion to this problem. For a weighted threshold signature amongst n parties, irre-
spective of how large the weight is, our scheme achieves the following eﬃciency:
the signature size is O(log2 n), veriﬁcation time is O(log2 n), and the partial
signature aggregation time is O(n log n). Our solution follows the recently pro-
9 That is, the rule that deﬁnes which subsets are authorized. For instance, for
(unweighted) threshold access structure, subsets are authorized if and only if its
cardinality is ⩾t.

456
S. Garg et al.
posed approach [GJM+24,DCX+23] of thresholdizing multisignature schemes.
It is highly versatile, as discussed below.
1. One can go beyond the weighted access structure and consider any access
structure deﬁned by a circuit C.10 Our construction can be modiﬁed accord-
ingly to realize it. In this case, the aggregation time would be O(|C| log |C|),
and the signature size and veriﬁcation time would be O(log2 |C|).
2. In this work, we use Schnorr signature [Sch90] as an example to demonstrate
the utility of our framework (this choice is to highlight the fact that our
techniques do not require pairing). In fact, it could be applied to other group-
based signature schemes with a linearly aggregatable veriﬁcation key (e.g.,
BLS signature [BLS01] resulting in a setup-free threshold signature with non-
interactive signing. Due to space constraints, we present a sketch in the full
version of this paper [GGW23]).
These extensions are discussed in more detail in the full version of this paper
[GGW23]. Finally, we remark that before this work, the only black-box con-
struction of a weighted threshold signature without setup was proposed by
Micali et al. [MRV+21]. However, [MRV+21] only considered a ramp setting,
where the reconstruction threshold is much larger than the privacy threshold.
For a sharp threshold setting, their aggregated signature size would not be suc-
cinct.11 We refer the readers to Sect. 1.2 for a more detailed discussion on the
related works.
Public Proof Aggregation. Finally, existing works on proving statements
involving hidden secrets are mostly motivated in the context of public proof
aggregation. To this end, we demonstrate the utility of our techniques in public
proof aggregation as well. In particular, we consider the example of aggregat-
ing multiple KZG polynomial commitment [KZG10] opening proofs of diﬀerent
polynomials evaluated at diﬀerent locations. We give an aggregation scheme for
a batch of n KZG opening proofs that achieves the following eﬃciency. The
aggregation cost is O(n log n), the aggregated proof size is O(log n2), and the
veriﬁcation cost is O(n). This result is presented in the full version of this paper
[GGW23].
1.2
Related Works
Proving Statements on Group Elements. Proving statements regarding
linear operations on group elements in a pairing-friendly group (a.k.a., inner
product argument (IPA)) has been extensively studied [BCC+16,BBB+18,
BMM+21,Lee21]. In such an argument, we have two commitments σ1 and σ2
committing to two vectors A and B of dimension N. The prover wants to con-
vince the veriﬁer that the inner product c = ⟨A, B⟩is some c. Here, both A
10 That is, given an indicator vector B ∈{0, 1}n for a subset B ⊆[n], C(B) = 1 if and
only if B is authorized.
11 In fact, it would be linear in the threshold.

How to Prove Statements Obliviously?
457
and B could either be a vector of group elements or a vector of ﬁeld elements.
The state-of-the-art scheme of [Lee21] enjoys a transparent setup, proof size
O(log N), and veriﬁcation time O(log N).
These schemes rely on an innovative folding technique that was initially pro-
posed in [BCC+16]. This folding technique makes crucial use of the homo-
morphic properties of the commitment schemes. For this particular reason,
these works use a pairing-lifted version [AFG+10] of the Pedersen commitment
scheme [Ped92] to commit to a vector of group elements. Consequently, these
arguments inherently require pairing12 (even if the statement to prove does not
involve pairing, e.g., an inner product between a group vector and a ﬁeld vector).
In comparison, one could also use our techniques to prove an IPA-type state-
ment. For instance, one could give polynomial commitments to the polynomials
encoding these vectors of hidden values and use existing SNARK techniques to
generate a proof certifying their inner product. This will give a slightly larger
proof size and veriﬁcation time O(log2 N) (indeed, this is what we show in the
full version [GGW23]). However, our techniques are signiﬁcantly more general, as
it applies to any homomorphic encapsulation of values. For example, one could
apply it to group elements that do not live in a pairing-friendly group or linear
homomorphically encrypted ciphertexts.
Moreover, our scheme gives a polynomial commitment for a vector of hidden
values. This greatly extends the inner product argument, which can only be used
to prove linear operations. As we have shown in this paper, one could utilize our
polynomial commitment with existing SNARK proof systems to prove arbitrary
computation on these hidden values as long as the encapsulation supports the
necessary homomorphism.
Verifying Privately Delegated Computation. The problem of verifying pri-
vately delegated computation has been studied in prior works. For instance, the
works of [FGP14,FNP20,BCFK21] considered designing eﬃcient non-black-box
solutions for verifying speciﬁc FHE schemes. Discussing these non-black-box
solutions is beyond the scope of this work. Instead, we focus on the prior black-
box solutions [GGP10,AIK10,CKV10,BGV11] for this problem.
To verify an arbitrary computation C, the state-of-the-art (black-box)
scheme [CKV10] requires a preprocessing step by the client, which does |C| · λ
FHE operations, where λ is the security parameter. In the online phase, the server
also needs to perform |C| · λ FHE computation. At a high level, their scheme
relies on the idea that the client can hide his actual input Enc(x) by a random
input Enc(r). The server, which receives {Enc(x), Enc(r)}, cannot distinguish
which one is the actual input and, hence, must do the computation correctly
(otherwise, the client will notice, with probability 1/2, by checking it against
the ciphertext C(Enc(r)) that it computed in the preprocessing phase). For the
purpose of veriﬁcation, the client must preprocess/pre-compute C(Enc(r)), which
takes |C| FHE operations. Moreover, to boost soundness, the client must repeat
12 The case where both vectors are ﬁeld vectors does not require pairing. However, this
is not the interesting case we consider in this paper. That is, the prover knows all
the witnesses in the clear.

458
S. Garg et al.
this step λ times. Finally, this preprocessing is not reusable. Indeed, after one
honest execution, the server learns the information of C(Enc(r)), which makes it
insecure to reuse. To make the preprocessing reusable, existing schemes require
adding another layer of FHE. That is, the client sends Enc(Enc(r)) such that,
after performing C, the server only learns Enc(C(Enc(r))) (but not C(Enc(r))),
which makes the preprocessing securely reusable. Besides the ineﬃciency of doing
FHE on FHE ciphertext, this also comes at the cost of turning a black-box con-
struction into a non-black-box one.
In comparison to the existing scheme, by composing our polynomial com-
mitment scheme with the state-of-the-art polynomial IOP-based SNARK, our
scheme only requires preprocessing and online prover time O(|C|·log |C|). More-
over, the preprocessing step is only for the arithmetization of the circuit C, which
is (1) independent of FHE, (2) arbitrarily reusable, and (3) deterministic (in
particular, this means that the preprocessing is public and can be done by any
party). Additionally, note that the client only needs to perform logarithmically
many FHE computations in the online phase to verify the proof.
Weighted Threshold Signatures Without Setup. Weighted threshold
signatures have been studied in many recent works [MRV+21,CK21,BHS23,
GJM+23] due to their increasing popularity in proof-of-stake-based blockchain
settings. Typically, the DKG-based solutions for this problem suﬀer from an eﬃ-
ciency degradation linear in the weights, i.e., the eﬃciency of the signers depends
linearly on the weight w associated with them13. The overhead in eﬃciency is
incurred due to the size of the secret key, the computation required for produc-
ing the partial signature, the aggregation of the partial signatures, etc. Recently,
two lines of work construct weighted threshold signatures without incurring this
degradation in eﬃciency, which we discuss next.
The work of Micali et al. [MRV+21] considers the exact same problem that
we consider, i.e., a weighted threshold signature without any setup. At a very
high level, their construction works as follows. Given suﬃciently many valid
signatures signed by individual parties, the aggregator uses a Merkle tree to
commit to this vector of individual signatures. Now, given a number of random
challenges (obtained by the Fiat-Shamir heuristic [FS87]), the aggregator reveals
the authenticated root-to-leaf path to prove that it possesses suﬃciently many
valid signatures from certain parties. The ﬁnal aggregated signature consists of
the root of the Merkle tree and the set of opened root-to-leaf paths. Evidently,
the signature size depends on the number of challenges sampled, which, in turn,
depends on the ratio between the total weight α of the valid signatures that the
aggregator receives and the total weight β of valid signatures that it aims to
prove. In particular, [MRV+21] showed that the number of challenges required
is proportional to
1
log(α/β). In the case where α ≈β, their signature size would
be linear in α. Therefore, [MRV+21] only considers a relaxed ramp setting, e.g.,
β = α/2. In comparison, our scheme realizes the most stringent sharp threshold
13 Since there are no known linear secret sharings with weight-independent secret
shares.

How to Prove Statements Obliviously?
459
setting, where α = β. In particular, the size of the signature for our scheme is
always O(log2 n).
Two other concurrent works [GJM+24,DCX+23] propose a SNARK-based
approach for designing weighted threshold signatures based on BLS signa-
tures [BLS01]. These works still require a structured reference string (SRS) and
require parties to publish (linear-size) additional information besides their public
keys. Our construction builds on top of their construction and removes the need
for these setups. We discuss their framework next.
Intuitively, these constructions work as follows. Each party will pick its own
keys (ski, pki) independently. Now, suppose a subset B ⊆[n] of the parties have
signed the message msg. The aggregator will produce (apk, σ, π) as the ﬁnal
signature where (1) apk = 
i∈B pki is the aggregation of the public keys from
the set B, (2) σ = 
i∈B σi is the aggregation of the partial signatures from B,
and (3) the proof π is a SNARK proof certifying that apk is an honest aggregation
of some parties’ public keys with suﬃciently high weights. The veriﬁer accepts
the aggregated signature as long as σ veriﬁes under the aggregated public key
apk and π is a valid proof for apk. As a prominent feature of this framework, the
eﬃciency of the entire construction could be independent of the weights.
Now, in this framework, the aggregator does need to prove a statement that
involves parties’ secret keys hidden inside the public key, which it does not
possess. Therefore, one cannot hope to generically use a SNARK in a black-
box manner. In order to overcome this barrier, [GJM+24,DCX+23] asks each
party to publish suitable hints14 regarding their secret keys, which enables the
aggregator to generate a SNARK proof for such statements. In particular, the
size of the hints published by each party is linear in the number of parties,
resulting in a quadratic overall communication complexity for communicating the
hints from all parties. Similar to DKG-based solutions, this quadratic complexity
severely limits the eﬃciency when the number of parties is large.
Our construction follows the framework of [GJM+24,DCX+23]. In compar-
ison, the techniques we develop in this paper allow the aggregator to directly
prove statements about the public keys’ aggregation, without any help from indi-
vidual parties. Therefore, parties do not need to publish any information besides
its public key. Furthermore, their construction relies on a trusted setup—a KZG-
style SRS [KZG10]; while our scheme does not require any setup. We note that
their construction does enjoy a constant size signature due to the use of KZG-
style polynomial commitment. In comparison, due to the FRI-style polynomial
commitment, our signature size is O(log2 n).
Finally, we emphasize that our construction is signiﬁcantly more general. In
particular, their construction inherently requires pairing. Consequently, it is not
clear if one could extend it to, for instance, the Schnorr signature as the public
keys in the Schnorr signature do not necessarily come from a pairing-friendly
group. Our construction, on the other hand, could be applied to either Schnorr
or BLS regardless of whether the underlying group is pairing-friendly or not.
14 In more details, party i holding secret key ski needs to send (gski·τ, gski·τ2, . . . , gski·τn)
as its hint, where (gτ, gτ2, . . . , gτn) is the KZG-style SRS.

460
S. Garg et al.
Additional Related Works. Recently, Bhadauria et al. [BHV+23] proposed a
new primitive called private polynomial commitment schemes. In a private poly-
nomial commitment scheme, the committer only has access to an encrypted poly-
nomial f(z) = f0+f1·z+· · ·+fd·zd. That is, it holds encryptions f0 , . . . , fd.
The committer wants to send the veriﬁer a succinct (private) polynomial com-
mitment to f0 , . . . , fd such that, given any private input x,15 the committer
can give a succinct proof to convince the veriﬁer of f(x) without leaking any
information of x. In their paper, they construct this primitive by relying on the
inner product argument. In particular, the committer proves f(x) by prov-
ing the inner product between (f0 , . . . , fd) and (1 , x , . . . ,

xd
). Due
to the use of the inner product argument, they could only give a construction
using a pairing-based homomorphic encryption scheme. Furthermore, [BHV+23]
shows that the private polynomial commitment schemes are useful in multiparty
private set intersection (PSI) schemes. Evidently, our polynomial commitment
for any linear homomorphic encrypted ciphertexts gives rise to constructions of
the private polynomial commitment scheme based on any linear homomorphic
encryption scheme. It is an interesting question to investigate whether these dif-
ferent instantiations of the private polynomial commitment schemes give any
concrete eﬃciency improvement for their multiparty PSI protocols.
After we made our work public, a follow-up work [ACGSV23] proposes a
similar idea for the problem of veriﬁable delegation of computation. They imple-
ment their protocol and show that running FRI on homomorphically encrypted
ciphertext is concretely eﬃcient.
2
Technical Overview
We now discuss the main ideas underlying our results. We start by introducing
the notion of linearly homomorphic encapsulation, to capture some common
properties of linearly homomorphic cryptographic primitives.
Linearly Homomorphic Encapsulation. In order to formally capture the
idea of hidden values, we introduce a notion of linearly-homomorphic encap-
sulations LHEncap. Informally speaking, such an encapsulation scheme maps
elements from a ﬁeld F to elements in some output space S, while preserving
linearly-homomorphic operations on the original ﬁeld elements. LHEncap could
be a keyed (e.g., encryption) or keyless (e.g., group exponentiation) mapping.
Additionally, it could either be randomized (e.g., encryption/commitment) or
deterministic (e.g., group exponentiation). As a consequence of these choices,
the mapped value in S may or may not “hide” the input ﬁeld element—we do
not assume any privacy guarantees from LHEncap. We use m ∈S to denote
encapsulation of m ∈F.16 Some common examples of LHEncap are homomor-
15 The committer knows the input x, but the receiver does not.
16 We remark that we slightly abuse notation here and use m to denote an encapsu-
lation of m, even when the encapsulation scheme is randomized. In particular, for
simplicity of notation, we do not make the randomness explicit in this representa-

How to Prove Statements Obliviously?
461
phic encryption, homomorphic commitments, group exponentiations, and fully
homomorphic encryptions.
2.1
FRI on Hidden Values
SNARKs for Low-Degree Testing on Hidden Values. Recall that the
FRI protocol [BBHR18] is an interactive oracle proof of proximity (IOPP) that
can be transformed into a SNARK for the following problem: given a com-
mitment to evaluations of a function (on some domain), the prover wants to
convince the veriﬁer that this set of evaluations is “very-close” (where this prox-
imity is usually measured by relative Hamming distance) to a codeword of an
error-correcting code.
We consider a variant of this problem on hidden values, where the prover
proves proximity of encapsulated evaluations, to a codeword of an error-
correcting code—without knowledge of the encapsulated values. We refer to the
SNARKs for this problem as SNARKs for low-degree testing on LHEncap. While
one can consider this problem with respect to any error-correcting code, in this
work, we only focus on Reed-Solomon codes. Our key observation is that the
FRI protocol can be modiﬁed to ﬁrst obtain an IOPP for encapsulated values—
we refer to this modiﬁed protocol as FRI on LHEncap. Next, this protocol can
be transformed into a SNARK for low-degree testing on LHEncap in the random
oracle model, using the [BCS16] compiler and the Fiat-Shamir heuristics [FS87].
Overview of FRI. We start by giving an overview of the original FRI protocol
[BBHR18]. A naïve approach for checking whether a set of |D| values (where
|D| > d) correspond to evaluations of a degree d polynomial is to try and inter-
polate evaluations on any d + 1 randomly chosen points and check if they lie on
a degree d polynomial. Clearly, this requires the veriﬁer to run in time linear in
d. FRI gives a way to reduce the veriﬁer run time to be logarithmic in d. FRI is a
logarithmic-round, folding-argument-based IOPP, inspired by observations from
Fast Fourier Transform (FFT). At a high level, FRI performs a random reduction
in each round, at least halving the instance size via a linear folding procedure.
In more detail, FRI is based on the following two observations:
– Obs 1: Any degree-d polynomial f(x) = d
i=0 ci · xi can be written as the
following combination of two degree d/2 polynomials fE, fO:
f(x) = fE(x2) + x · fO(x2),
where fE(x) = c0 + c2 · x + c4 · x2 + · · · is deﬁned by the even coeﬃcients of
f and fO(x) = c1 + c3 · x + c5 · x2 + · · · by the odd coeﬃcients.
– Obs 2: The second observation used in the FRI protocol is that fE(x2) and
fO(x2) can be re-written as
fE(x2) = f(x) + f(−x)
2
,
fO(x2) = f(x) −f(−x)
2x
.
tion. Looking ahead, whenever relevant, the use of randomness will be made clear
in the accompanying text.

462
S. Garg et al.
Moreover, when x is a dth root of unity (say ωi), then −x = −ωi = ωd/2+i.
Given these observations, the FRI protocol proceeds in two phases, namely the
commit phase and the query phase as follows:
Commit Phase: The commit phase consists of O(log d) rounds, in which the
prover sends domain evaluation oracles to the veriﬁer, who then responds with
a random challenge. This phase of FRI performs the random reduction, where
the instance size gets halved with each step.
At the beginning, the veriﬁer is given oracle access to evaluations of the
polynomial f on domain D = {ω0, . . . , ω|D|−1}, which is the set of |D|th roots
of unity. This is referred to as the domain evaluation oracle. In the ﬁrst round,
given a random challenge (say α0) from the veriﬁer, the prover sends another
domain evaluation oracle (on the new domain D1 = {ω0, ω2, ω4, . . . , ω|D|−1}) of
the folded polynomial f1(x) = fE(x) + α0 · fO(x). Note that the degree of the
folded polynomial f1 is at most d/2 and |D1| = |D|/2. A similar randomized
reduction is then performed on this new polynomial f1 in the next round and
so on. This continues until we are left with a constant polynomial at the end of
(log2 d)th step, whose degree can be easily veriﬁed in constant time.
Note that, since the prover only sends domain evaluation oracles to the
veriﬁer in every round, it does not necessarily need to compute evaluations of
fE(x), fO(x) from scratch. This is where FRI leverages Obs 2 from above. Eval-
uations of fE(x), fO(x) on domain D1, can be computed using simple linear
combinations of evaluations of f(x) on domain D, which it already knows (as
described in Obs 2). The same observation is used in each of the log2 d steps.
Thus, the domain evaluation oracle in each round i can be computed in O(|Di−1|)
time.
Query Phase: At the end of the commit phase, the veriﬁer queries each of the
log2 d oracles at random points within their respective domains of deﬁnition.
These openings are subsequently utilized to verify the consistency of the folding
(done by the prover) in each reduction step from the commit phase.
Overview of FRI on LHEncap. Towards adapting the above protocol to work
on “hidden” values, we make the following simple observations:
1. Given the evaluations of the original instance f on domain D, throughout the
protocol, the prover only performs linear operations on these evaluations.17
2. The prover does not need the description of f in any other representation
besides these domain evaluations.
3. Given oracle access to these domain evaluations, the veriﬁer also only per-
forms linear operations on the queried evaluations to check consistency.
17 If instead, the prover starts with domain evaluations of f on domain H ⊂F, which is
a multiplicative subgroup of size d + 1, they can use FFT to compute evaluations on
the larger domain D. Since FFT is a linear operation, this translation also requires
the prover to only perform linear operations on the evaluations on H.

How to Prove Statements Obliviously?
463
These observations lead us to conclude that rather than possessing them in
the clear, it suﬃces for the prover to have access to the domain evaluations
encapsulated inside an LHEncap (and similarly, it suﬃces for the veriﬁer to have
oracle access to these encapsulations and not the actual evaluations). Since LHEn-
cap (see Deﬁnition 3) preserves linear operations of encapsulated values, given
encapsulated domain evaluations, it is possible to emulate the FRI protocol almost
as is, albeit on encapsulations. We refer to this variant as FRI on LHEncap.
Public/Private-Veriﬁability. We remark that, if we want the above proto-
col to be publically veriﬁable, then we crucially require the underlying LHEn-
cap scheme to be linearly-homomorphic w.r.t. randomness. This is because, in
the query phase, the veriﬁer performs two kinds of checks: (1) if the random
folding is done correctly (e.g., a · m1 + b · m2 = m3) and (2) if the ﬁnal
reduced polynomial is a constant polynomial (e.g., m1 = m2). This essen-
tially checks if certain linear constraints are satisﬁed on the encapsulated values.
For instance, checking if the ﬁnal polynomial is a constant polynomial requires
checking that the encapsulations of all evaluations of this polynomial on the ﬁnal
reduced domain are the same. Note that, while each of those encapsulations was
computed using the same linear function over the original encapsulations of the
domain evaluations of f (on H), the operations within the linear function may
not have been computed in the same order. Consider the following simple exam-
ple: given 2 encapsulations m1 and m2, the encapsulations of a · m1 + a · m2
resulting from (a · m1 + a · m2) and (a · (m1 + m2)) are only guaranteed
to be the same when the underlying LHEncap scheme satisﬁes linear homomor-
phism w.r.t. to randomness.
As a special case, if the underlying LHEncap is deterministic, the above con-
struction is always publicly veriﬁable. As a notable example, group exponentia-
tion (i.e., m →gm) is a deterministic encapsulation and our FRI on LHEncap will
henceforth be publicly veriﬁable in this case.
Finally, observe that if the LHEncap is decryptable and the veriﬁer knows the
key corresponding to the underlying LHEncap scheme, one can always decrypt the
encapsulations of all evaluations and check if the linear constraints are satisﬁed.
That is, instead of checking a · m1 + b · m2 = m3, the veriﬁer ﬁrst decrypts
and then checks a·m1 +b·m2 = m3. But, of course, this only gives us a privately
veriﬁable version of the above protocol.
Remark 1 (Necessity of FFT-friendly Field.) The original FRI protocol
(which is what we present above) requires an FFT-friendly ﬁeld (a.k.a., smooth
ﬁeld [BCKL23,BCKL22]). That is, it is required that the multiplicative group
F∗contains a large enough subgroup of order 2ℓsuch that 2ℓ⩾d. However,
not all prime ﬁelds Fp satisfy this property. In particular, a prime ﬁeld Fp has
this property only if 2ℓdivides p −1. This seems to limit the applicability of our
scheme as it only applies to encapsulated values from an FFT-friendly ﬁeld.
Fortunately, a recent line of works [BCKL23,BCKL22] have addressed this
issue and extended FRI to all ﬁnite ﬁelds. Crucially, the extended FRI protocol
still only requires the prover and the veriﬁer to perform linear operations. Con-
sequently, one can still apply the extended protocols to the (encapsulated) val-

464
S. Garg et al.
ues analogously. We refer the readers to [BCKL22, Appendix B] for a detailed
description of the extended FRI protocol for arbitrary ﬁelds. For the sake of sim-
plicity, throughout this paper, we present our results for FFT-friendly ﬁelds. But
they all extend to arbitrary ﬁelds using the techniques from [BCKL23,BCKL22].
2.2
Polynomial Commitments on Hidden Values
Next, we formalize a variant of polynomial commitments, referred to as polyno-
mial commitments on LHEncap. We start by recalling polynomial commitments.
Polynomial Commitments. A polynomial commitment scheme enables the
committer C to generate a succinct commitment to a polynomial. Subsequently,
the committer can disclose the evaluation of this polynomial at any (public)
location and provide a convincing proof to the receiver R that the disclosed
value is consistent with the original commitment. [KZG10,BGKS20,Lee21] are
some common examples of polynomial commitment schemes.
Polynomial Commitments on LHEncap. We extend the above notion to
polynomial commitments for hidden values. Given access to a set of encapsulated
evaluations of a polynomial, a polynomial commitment for hidden values allows
the committer C to create a short commitment, such that it can later reveal
the encapsulations of evaluations of the polynomial at any locations, while being
able to convince the receiver R that the opening is consistent with the committed
encapsulated values.
Polynomial Commitments on LHEncap from FRI on LHEncap. We then
present a construction of a polynomial commitment scheme on LHEncap using
our FRI on LHEncap scheme. [BGKS20] showed how the FRI protocol can be
used to construct a simple polynomial commitment scheme, where the size of
opening proofs and the time required to verify these opening proofs are both
polylogarithmic in the size of the instance. We observe that the same ideas can
be generalized to obtain a polynomial commitment on LHEncap.
Overview of FRI Based Polynomial Commitments [BGKS20]. The FRI-
based polynomial commitment scheme works as follows. Given polynomial eval-
uations y1, . . . , yd+1, the committer C starts by using FFT on these evaluations
to obtain evaluations on a larger domain D. It then computes and sends a Merkle
Hash of these evaluations to the receiver. When asked to give an opening proof
for some pair (x∗, y∗) ∈F2, where y∗= f(x∗), the committer uses the fact that
there exists a quotient polynomial h(x) of degree at most d −1, such that
f(x) −y∗= h(x) · (x −x∗)
to convince the receiver R that h(x) = f(x)−y∗
x−x∗
is of degree at most d −1. This
proof is given using the FRI protocol. Note that, in the FRI protocol (for h),
the veriﬁer needs to have oracle access to the evaluation of h(x). This is not a
problem since the veriﬁer does have access to f (which was committed using the
Merkle Hash and the response to queries made to f on the speciﬁed domain can

How to Prove Statements Obliviously?
465
be answered by giving out the corresponding Merkle proof), and any query to h
can be equivalently treated as one query to f. For example, if the veriﬁer wants
to query h(x′), it may query f at x = x′ and compute h(x′) as h(x′) = f(x′)−y∗
x′−x∗.
Our Observation. We observe that if instead the committer starts with encap-
sulations of evaluations of a polynomial, then the above ideas can be used to
obtain a polynomial commitment on LHEncap, if we use our FRI on LHEn-
cap protocol from the previous section. This protocol proceeds exactly as the
one described above, except that the prover now has encapsulated evaluations
(on some domain D), which it will commit to using a Merkle Hash. For the open-
ing proof, it will make use of FRI on LHEncap to prove that h(x) = f(x)−y∗
x−x∗
is a set of encapsulated evaluations of a polynomial of degree at most d −1.
(Observe that computing h(x) is again a linear operation. For any x′ ∈D,
computing h(x′) as
f(x)−y∗
x′−x∗
is linear because both x′ and x∗are in the
clear.)
This ﬁnishes the overview of our polynomial commitment scheme for hid-
den values. In the subsequent sections, we present an overview of how this tool
enables a wide range of applications.
Extension to Other Polynomial Commitment Schemes. We remark that
our idea of designing a polynomial commitment scheme for hidden values using
FRI is fundamentally rooted in the following insight: consider an idealized setting,
where vector commitment is modeled as idealized oracle, that both the prover
and the veriﬁer is allowed to query. Given an oracle containing evaluations of
a polynomial at suﬃciently many points (i.e., one more than the degree of the
polynomial), generating a proof of valid polynomial opening at any particular
point using a FRI-based approach only requires linear operations. Therefore,
similar ideas can also be extended to other polynomial commitments (such as
[AHIV17]), where generating such proofs – given oracle access to evaluations of
a polynomial at suﬃciently many points – only requires linear operations.
2.3
Application I: Eﬃciently Veriﬁable Private Delegation
of Computation
We present a solution for eﬃciently veriﬁable FHE-based private delegation
of computation, which does not require any non-black-box use of the FHE
scheme. At a high level, we show how our polynomial commitment scheme on
LHEncap can be combined with state-of-the-art polynomial IOP-based SNARKs
(e.g., [COS20,GWC19]) to obtain this solution.
By FHE-based delegation, we are referring to the setting where the client
encrypts its input (on which the computation needs to be performed) using FHE
and sends the corresponding ciphertexts to the server. The server then carries
out computations on these encrypted data and returns the resulting encrypted
output. Ultimately, the client can decrypt the output locally to learn the desired
information. In order to add integrity to this delegation and to verify that the
computation was done honestly, our high-level idea is to have the service provider

466
S. Garg et al.
attach a succinct proof for this computation. For this, we want to leverage the
techniques developed in the previous sections.
Before describing our approach, let us brieﬂy recall the structure of existing
state-of-the-art SNARKs such as Fractal [COS20] and Plonk [GWC19]. Most
existing eﬃcient constructions of SNARKS start by designing a polynomial-
IOP and then transforming that into a non-interactive proof with the help of
polynomial commitment schemes (and Fiat-Shamir heuristics). A polynomial
IOP is a variant of IOP, where the oracles sent by the prover to the veriﬁer are
essentially polynomials. In other words, in each round of a polynomial-IOP, the
prover provides the veriﬁer with an oracle access to a polynomial function which
the veriﬁer can query at any location of its choice.
Going back to our application, the relation we are interested in proving is that
the FHE evaluation was done correctly. In other words, the output ciphertext
is an encryption of the result of computing some function (say C) on the input.
This is essentially similar to proving the following relation on values encapsulated
inside FHE ciphertexts: R : output = C(input) (as opposed to R′ : Enc(output) =
C(Enc(input))). However, we want to do this without making non-black-box use
of the underlying FHE scheme.
We leverage the structure of polynomial-IOP and the homomorphism of
the FHE scheme as follows. Given the relation circuit in the clear and FHE
ciphertexts for the extended-witness (or the computation-trace of C(input)), the
prover can compute the same operations that it needs to perform in a regu-
lar polynomial-IOP, except that the computations involving the extended wit-
ness will have to be performed as FHE evaluations. As a result of this, the
resulting polynomial oracles that the prover needs to send to the veriﬁer in IOP
are also hidden inside the FHE ciphertexts. This is exactly the type of appli-
cation for which our polynomial commitment on LHEncap is most useful. In
order to transform this IOP, where the polynomial oracles are encapsulated into
an interactive/non-interactive proof system, the server can use this polynomial
commitment scheme to emulate sending an oracle and then answering oracle
queries.
Using the above transformation, the server is able to generate a SNARK
proof encapsulated inside an FHE ciphertext. The client can now decrypt this
proof and check if it passes veriﬁcation to verify the correctness of the delegated
computation. In the full version [GGW23], we show how this idea can be used
with any polynomial IOP-based SNARK. In particular, when instantiating this
approach with the underlying polynomial IOP that Fractal [COS20] is based on,
we show that in addition to performing O(|C|) FHE evaluations to compute the
output, the server only needs to perform O(|C| log |C|) FHE evaluations with a
constant multiplicative depth.
2.4
Application II: Private Outsourcing of zkSNARKs to a Single
Server
We now present our second application—private delegation of zkSNARK com-
putation to a single untrusted server. As mentioned earlier, while succinct and

How to Prove Statements Obliviously?
467
quick to verify, proof generation in existing zkSNARKs is a computation and
memory-intensive task. Thus, it would be beneﬁcial to leverage the power of
cloud computing and enable the prover to delegate this task to an external
server. However, to ensure the privacy of the secret witness employed in the gen-
eration of zkSNARK, it is highly desirable or, in many cases, necessary that this
delegation remains privacy-preserving. We demonstrate how this can be accom-
plished by modifying our protocol from the previous section while maintaining
the black-box usage of crytography on the server side.
As discussed in the introduction, there is one crucial barrier in directly using
the ideas from the previous section to obtain a solution for this application.
Checking the validity of the SNARK generated by the server in the previous
application required knowledge of the secret key associated with the FHE scheme
for decryption, and hence, that proof was only privately veriﬁable. However, in
our current application, since the computation being delegated to the server is
the generation of a zkSNARK, the resulting zkSNARK must, therefore, be pub-
licly veriﬁable. To this end, our idea is to ask the client to append the encrypted
proof with all the decryptions to augment it to be publicly veriﬁable. However,
to ensure soundness, the client must also prove that these decryptions are done
honestly; otherwise, the client may append any (incorrect) descriptions, and the
soundness of the ﬁnal proof system is not guaranteed. Note that this does intro-
duce (minimal) non-black-box uses of the FHE scheme on the client side.
To instantiate this framework, our main idea is the following. The client starts
by committing to the FHE secret key (using an extractable commitment scheme)
and then encrypting the witness using FHE. It sends the commitment and these
ciphertexts to the server.18 The server uses FHE evaluation on these ciphertexts
to obtain encryptions of the extended witness. Given encryptions of the extended
witness, it then uses additional FHE evaluations and our polynomial commit-
ment on LHEncap to generate an encrypted zkSNARK exactly as described in
the previous section. It then sends the resulting encrypted zkSNARK back to the
client. Now, the client will decrypt all the ciphertexts contained in this encrypted
SNARK. It also provides a zero-knowledge proof for each decryption, proving
the honest decryption with respect to the committed secret key. By doing so,
any party can perform the required veriﬁcation step on these decrypted values
in the clear, rendering it publicly veriﬁable. The encrypted zkSNARK sent by
the server, along with these descriptions and proofs, jointly constitute a publicly
veriﬁable zkSNARK. Due to space constraints, we defer this result to the full
version of our paper [GGW23].
2.5
Application III: Weighted Threshold Signature Without Setup
Finally, we present an overview of our construction for weighted threshold sig-
natures without setup. Our starting point is a multisignature scheme19 [Bol03,
18 The commitment is sent to the server so that the Fiat-Shamir heuristics will also
take it as part of the transcript.
19 A multisignature scheme between n parties allows each party to sample its own key
pair and sign messages independently, after which, a succinct aggregated signature

468
S. Garg et al.
BDN18]. Unlike threshold signature schemes, multisignature scheme enjoys the
great advantage that parties’ secret keys are not correlated. Therefore, parties
may sample their key pairs independently, and no interactive/trusted setup is
required. Similar to [GJM+24,DCX+23], our high-level idea is to ﬁrst turn a
multisignature scheme into a trivial threshold signature scheme where the ver-
iﬁcation key and aggregated signature are not succinct. Afterward, we will use
the techniques developed in this paper to compile this scheme into another one
that does have a succinct veriﬁcation key and signature.
Let us use Schnorr multisignatures [MPSW19,NRS21] as an example. Sup-
pose we have n parties and the weights and threshold are (w1, w2, . . . , wn) and
T, respectively. Each party independently samples their key pair {ski, pki = gski}
(here, g is the generator of some cryptographic group). In the trivial scheme, the
(linear-size) veriﬁcation key is vk = (pk1, pk2, . . . , pkn). Now, on some message
msg, suppose a subset of parties B ⊆[n] engage in a signing session and gen-
erate a multisignature σ. Then, the aggregator will simply output (B, σ) as the
threshold signature. Here, we abuse notation and treat B as the indicator vector
for the set B ⊆[n]. That is, B = (b1, . . . , bn) ∈{0, 1}n such that bi = 1 if and
only if i ∈B. Now, given the signature (B, σ), the veriﬁer will do the following:
(1) it checks that the cumulative weight is suﬃciently high, i.e., 
i bi · wi ⩾T;
(2) it computes the aggregated public key apk = 
i∈B pki;20 (3) it veriﬁes σ
under apk. It is not hard to see that this trivial threshold scheme is secure as
long as the underlying multisignature scheme is secure.21 However, the signature
size, the veriﬁcation key size, and the veriﬁcation time all grow linearly in n.
We now describe how our techniques can enable succinct veriﬁcation. Note
that, the only part in the veriﬁcation process that is not succinct is to compute
the aggregation of the public key apk = 
i∈B pki and verify that it has suﬃcient
weight. Our idea is to let the veriﬁer ask the aggregator to compute this for her.
However, to ensure security, the veriﬁer must verify that the aggregated public
key is indeed an honest aggregation of parties’ public keys with that satisfy the
total weight requirement. This leaves us with the following question:
How can the aggregator generate a succinct proof
for the honest aggregation of the public key?
can be generated to convince the veriﬁer that all n parties have signed the message.
Intuitively, a multisignature scheme is an n-out-of-n threshold signature scheme.
20 In order to prevent the rogue key attack [BDN18], the aggregation of the public keys
typically uses a random linear combination apk = 
i(pki)αi given by the random
oracle αi = RO(pk1, . . . , pkn, pki). This can be equivalently treated as each public
key pki is reset to be (pki)αi. For simplicity of presentation, we omit this detail.
21 Typically, in a multisignature scheme, we require all n parties to sign the message.
In these cases, the aggregated public key apk can be precomputed and, hence, the
veriﬁcation is indeed succinct. In our setting, we do not require all parties to sign and
will compute apk on the ﬂy. Most known multisignature schemes [BDN18,MPSW19,
NRS21] support such a modiﬁcation, although the resulting veriﬁcation is no longer
succinct.

How to Prove Statements Obliviously?
469
If the secret keys are known to the aggregator, then this problem has a trivial
solution—applying any generic SNARK would suﬃce. However, the aggregator
does not possess ski’s in the clear, but only its encapsulation pki = gski. This is
where our FRI on hidden values can be of help. In particular, it can be used to
enable the aggregator to commit to polynomials described by ski, even though
the aggregator only possesses pki. Now, this observation, together with other
known techniques from the SNARK literature, gives rise to our construction,
which we summarize next.
The common tool that is used in the SNARKs literature is generalized sum-
check, which is a polynomial identity test for proving that the inner product
⟨X, Y ⟩between two vectors X = (x1, . . . , xn) and Y = (y1, . . . , yn), encoded as
polynomials, is equal to some speciﬁed value. We refer the readers to the techni-
cal sections for this lemma and proceed to describe our scheme. We change the
veriﬁcation key vk to be the polynomial commitments of two polynomials: (1)
an encoding of the secret keys (sk1, . . . , skn) and (2) an encoding of the weights
(w1, . . . , wn).22
To generate a succinct proof π for apk, the aggregator needs to prove that
there is some subset B ⊆[n] such that (1) the inner product between B and
(sk1, . . . , skn) is dLog(apk), i.e., apk = g⟨B,(sk1,...,skn)⟩, and (2) the inner product
between B and (w1, . . . , wn) is suﬃciently high ⩾T. Therefore, the aggregator
will ﬁrst commit to some polynomial that encodes a set B. Next, it will generate
inner product proofs using the generalized sumcheck. Finally, the aggregator
must also prove that B is a binary vector.23 Otherwise, the aggregator may use
B = (T, 0, . . . , 0) to prove that apk contains suﬃcient weight even though the
adversary can sign under apk as long as the ﬁrst party signs. With these suitable
changes, the aggregated signature will consist of (apk, σ, π), and the veriﬁer can
succinctly verify. Again, we remind the reader that the eﬃciency of the entire
scheme is independent of the weights.
This summarizes the high-level structure of the construction. In addition to
being setup-free and naturally supporting weights, our scheme also enjoys many
other advantages. One notable feature is that, unlike regular threshold signa-
ture schemes, where there is a predeﬁned threshold, each aggregated signature
in our scheme comes with a signature-speciﬁc threshold. Intuitively, this allows
the aggregator to generate more ﬁne-grained proofs (i.e., the aggregated signa-
ture), certifying exactly how many parties sign a given message. Due to space
constraints, we defer this result to the full version of our paper [GGW23].
Organization. In Sect. 3 we discuss the necessaryy preliminaries. In Sect. 4 and
Sect. 5, we present our FRI on hidden values and the polynomial commitment
scheme on LHEncap. The applications of our techniques are deferred to the full
version [GGW23].
22 Note that this is a deterministic process that any party can compute given
(pk1, . . . , pkn) and (w1, . . . , wn).
23 Which can be checked as B(x) · (1 −B(x)) should be 0 on the information locations.

470
S. Garg et al.
3
Preliminaries
In this section, we recall the deﬁnitions of some well-known primitives.
Deﬁnition 1 (Reed-Solomon Codes). For a subset of some ﬁeld D ⊆F,
and a rate parameter ρ ∈(0, 1], we denote by RS[F, D, ρ] the set of all functions
f : D →F for which there exists ˆf ∈F<ρ|D|[x] agreeing with f on D.
Deﬁnition 2 (SNARKs). Let R be an NP relation. A succinct non-interactive
argument of knowledge (SNARK) for R is deﬁned by a triple of algorithms
(SNARK.Setup, SNARK.Prover, SNARK.Verify) with the following syntax:
1. crs ←SNARK.Setup(1λ): On input the security parameter λ, the setup algo-
rithm outputs a common reference string crs.
2. π ←SNARK.Prover(crs, st, wit): On input the common reference string crs,
statement st and witness wit, the prover algorithm outputs a proof π.
3. b ←SNARK.Verify(crs, st, π): On input the common reference string crs, the
statement st, and proof π, the veriﬁcation algorithm outputs a bit b ∈{0, 1}.
These algorithms satisfy the following properties:
– Completeness: For any statement st, and witness wit, such that R(st, wit) =
1 it holds that
Pr

1 ←SNARK.Verify(crs, st, π)

crs ←SNARK.Setup(1λ)
π ←SNARK.Prover(crs, st, wit)

⩾1 −negl(λ) .
– Knowledge Soundness: There exists an extractor E and knowledge error
ε : [0, 1] →[0, 1], such that, for any PPT algorithm P∗, the following holds.
Pr
⎡
⎢⎢⎣R(st, wit) = 0

crs ←SNARK.Setup(1λ)
(st, π) ←P∗(crs)
1 ←SNARK.Verify(crs, st, π)
wit ←EP ∗(crs)
⎤
⎥⎥⎦⩽ε(θ).
– Succinctness: The proof size should be sublinear in the witness size, i.e.,
|π| ∈o(|R|).
Additionally, we say that the SNARK has zero-knowledge if it does not
leak any information besides the truth of the statement. In more detail, let
SNARK.Setup(1λ) be such that it outputs crs along with a simulation trapdoor τ.
Then there exists a simulator Sim, such that for all statement-witness pairs st,
wit, where R(st, wit) = 1 and for all PPT adversaries A, the following holds:
Pr

A(crs, st, π) = 1 | (crs, τ) ←SNARK.Setup(1λ); π ←SNARK.Prover(crs, st, wit)

−Pr

A(crs, st, π) = 1 | (crs, τ) ←SNARK.Setup(1λ); π ←Sim(crs, st, τ)
 = negl(λ)

How to Prove Statements Obliviously?
471
4
FRI on Hidden Values
In this section, we present our main result, i.e., a modiﬁcation to the
FRI [BBHR18] protocol that enables operations on “hidden values”. To formally
capture the idea of hidden values, we start by introducing the notion of linearly-
homomorphic encapsulations in Sect. 4.1. In Sect. 4.2, we deﬁne SNARKs for
low-degree testing on hidden values, and ﬁnally, in Sect. 4.3, we present the con-
struction of FRI on hidden values.
4.1
Linearly-Homomorphic Encapsulation
We ﬁrst formally deﬁne LHEncap, and then proceed to give examples of known
cryptographic/non-cryptographic primitives that satisfy the properties of LHEn-
cap. For the applications that we consider in this work, it suﬃces for us to view
LHEncap as a secret-key primitive. A public-key variant can be deﬁned analo-
gously.
Deﬁnition 3 (Linearly-Homomorphic
Encapsulation).
A
linearly-
homomorphic encapsulation (LHEncap) with key-space K, message-space F,
randomness-space R,24 and output-space S consists of a tuple of PPT algorithms
(Setup, KeyGen, Encap, Eval) deﬁned as follows:
1. pp ←Setup

1λ
: The setup algorithm takes as input the security parameter
λ and outputs some public parameters pp.
2. k ←KeyGen (pp): The key generation algorithm takes as input the public
parameters pp and outputs a key k ∈K.
3. m ←Encap (pp, k, m; r): The encapsulation algorithm takes as input the
public parameters pp, the key k ∈K, a message m ∈F and a random value
r ∈R, and outputs an encapsulation m ∈S.
4. m ←Eval (pp, m1 , . . . , mn , f): The evaluation algorithm takes as input
the public parameters pp, a set of encapsulations m1 , . . . , mn ∈Sn (where
n ∈N), a linear function f and outputs a new encapsulation m ∈S.
These algorithms (KeyGen, Encap, Eval) must crucially satisfy linear-homo-
morphism. Additionally, an LHEncap must either be linearly-homomorphic
w.r.t. randomness or be decryptable. These properties are deﬁned as
follows.
– Linear-Homomorphism: For every n ∈N, any m1, . . . , mn ∈Fn, any
r1, . . . , rn ∈Rn and any linear functions f, it holds that:
Pr
⎡
⎢⎣∃r ∈R
s.t. Eval

pp, {mi}i∈[n], f

= Encap

pp, k, f({mi}i∈[n]); r


pp ←Setup

1λ	
k ←KeyGen (pp)
∀i ∈[n], mi ←Encap (pp, k, mi; ri)
⎤
⎥⎦= 1.
24 If the LHEncap scheme is keyless and/or deterministic, then K = ∅and/or R = ∅,
respectively.

472
S. Garg et al.
– We say that LHEncap is linearly-homomorphic w.r.t. randomness if, in
the above equation, we have r = f

{ri}i∈[n]

. We note that this is only possi-
ble when the randomness-space R = F. Moreover, any deterministic LHEncap
trivially satisﬁes linearly-homomorphic w.r.t. randomness.
– Decryptable: We say that LHEncap is decryptable, if there exists a
polynomial-time deterministic algorithm Decrypt(pp, k, m), that takes the
public parameters pp, the key k ∈K, and an encapsulation m ∈S as input,
and outputs a message m∗∈F, such that the following holds for every m ∈F,
r ∈R:
Pr
⎡
⎣m∗= m

pp ←Setup

1λ
, k ←KeyGen(pp)
m ←Encap(pp, k, m; r)
m∗= Decrypt(pp, k, m)
⎤
⎦= 1.
Notation. As mentioned earlier, throughout the rest of this paper, we will
use m as a shorthand notation to denote an encapsulation of m w.r.t. some
LHEncap scheme. Unless necessary, we neither explicitly specify the random-
ness (if any) used in this encapsulation, nor do we mention the algorithm
(KeyGen, Encap, Eval) associated with the LHEncap scheme. Moreover, for sim-
plicity of notation, instead of using the Eval function, we will use m1+m2 to
denote addition (i.e., where the function f in Eval(m1 , m2 , f) is the addition
function). Similarly, we use c·m1 to denote the multiplication by a constant c.
Examples. Following are some common examples of LHEncap:
– Homomorphic Encryption: Linearly (for instance, [ElG84,Pai99,Reg05]) or
fully-homomorphic encryption [Gen09] are the most common examples of
a keyed, randomized, and decryptable LHEncap. It is easy to see that the
encapsulation algorithm in such schemes is the encryption algorithm, and the
output space S is the ciphertext space. Linearly homomorphic encryption
such ElGamal [ElG84] is also linearly-homomorphic w.r.t. randomness.
– Homomorphic Commitments: Linearly-homomorphic commitments such as
Pedersen commitments [Ped92] and fully-homomorphic commitments such as
the Gentry-Sahai-Waters FHE scheme [GSW13,GVW15] are another exam-
ple of LHEncap. These are keyless/keyed and randomized encapsulations. The
output space S is the commitment space. Pedersen commitments are also
linearly-homomorphic w.r.t. randomness.
– Group Exponentiation: Mappings such as m →gm (where g is the generator
of a group G that has the same order as F) is another simple example of LHEn-
cap. Unlike commitments and encryptions, this is an example of a keyless and
deterministic encapsulation, that preserves linearly-homomorphic operations
in the exponent.
4.2
SNARKs for Low-Degree Testing on LHEncap
In this section, we deﬁne SNARKs for the problem of low-degree testing on LHEn-
cap. This problem is deﬁned as follows: Let F be a ﬁeld, d ∈N a degree-bound,

How to Prove Statements Obliviously?
473
θ > 0 a proximity parameter, D ⊆F a domain, (Setup, KeyGen, Encap, Eval)
an LHEncap scheme, and com a non-interactive vector commitment. The prover
wants to convince the veriﬁer that it knows y1 , . . . ,

y|D|

, such that:
1. com is a commitment to these encapsulations
2. These encapsulations form a low-degree polynomial. This is formalized in two
ways depending on the underlying LHEncap.
– If LHEncap is decryptable, then there exists some degree d polynomial f,
i.e., f ∈RS [F, D, ρ = d/|D|] (see Deﬁnition 1) s.t., for each i ∈[|D|], the
decryption yi of yi agrees with f on D[i].
– Else, if LHEncap is linearly-homomorphic w.r.t. randomness, then there
exists some function f : D →S, i.e., f ∈RS [S, D, ρ = d/|D|] s.t., for
each i ∈[|D|], yi agrees with f(x) on D[i]. Here, RS[S, D, ρ] denotes
the Reed-Solomon codes over the output-space S of LHEncap, i.e., it
denotes the set of all functions f : D →S for which there exists
ˆf ∈S<ρ|D|[x] agreeing with f on D. As a concrete example, consider
group exponentiation. The evaluation of gf(x) on D is a Reed-Solomon
codes ∈RS [G, D, ρ = d/|D|] over G.
We now formally deﬁne SNARKs for low-degree Testing on LHEncap. We use
δ(f, g) to denote the fractional Hamming distance, i.e.,
δ(f, g) =
1
|D| · |{x ∈D : f(x) ̸= g(x)}| .
Deﬁnition 4 (SNARKs for Low-Degree Testing on LHEncap). Let F
be a ﬁeld, d ∈N a degree-bound, θ > 0 a proximity parameter and D ⊆F
a domain. Let (LHEncap.Setup, LHEncap.KeyGen, LHEncap.Encap, LHEncap.Eval)
be an LHEncap scheme and let (Com.Gen, Com.Commit, Com.Open) be a deter-
ministic vector commitment scheme.25 A SNARK for low-degree testing on hid-
den values is a triple of algorithms (SNARK.Setup, SNARK.Prover, SNARK.Verify)
with the following syntax:
1. crs ←SNARK.Setup(1λ): On input the security parameter λ, the setup algo-
rithm outputs a common reference string crs.
2. (com, π) ←SNARK.Prover(crs, y1 , . . . ,

y|D|

): On input the common refer-
ence string crs and a list of encapsulations y1 , . . . ,

y|D|

, the prover algo-
rithm outputs a proof π and a vector commitment com.
3. b ←SNARK.Verify(crs, com, π): On input the common reference string crs, a
vector commitment com, and proof π, the veriﬁcation algorithm outputs a bit
b ∈{0, 1}.
These algorithms satisfy the following properties:
– Completeness: For any vector of encapsulations

y1 , . . . ,

y|D|

, and any
commitment com of this vector. If there exists an f 0, such that for each i ∈
25 For instance, the Merkle hash tree-based commitment.

474
S. Garg et al.
[|D|], yi agrees with f 0 on D[i] and δ(f 0, RS [F, D, ρ]) = 0, then it holds that
Pr

1 ←SNARK.Verify(crs, com, π)

crs ←SNARK.Setup(1λ)
π ←SNARK.Prover(crs, com, y1 ,
. . . ,

y|D|

)

⩾1−negl(λ) .
– Knowledge Soundness: There exists an extractor E and knowledge error
ε : [0, 1] →[0, 1], such that, for any PPT algorithm P∗, the following holds.
• If LHEncap is linearly-homomorphic w.r.t., randomness then the following
holds:
Pr

com ̸= Com.commit(y1 , . . . ,

y|D|

)
∨(y1 , . . . ,

y|D|

) is
θ far from RS code

crs ←SNARK.Setup(1λ)
(com, π) ←P∗(crs)
1 ←SNARK.Verify(crs, com, π)
y1 , . . . ,

y|D|

←EP ∗(crs)

⩽ε(θ),
where “θ far from RS codeword” means there exists some f 0 : D →S such
that ∀i ∈[|D|], yi agrees with f 0 on D[i] and δ(f 0, RS [S, D, ρ]) ⩾θ.
• Else, if LHEncap is decryptable,26 then the following holds:
Pr
⎡
⎣
com ̸= Com.commit(y1 , . . . ,

y|D|

)
∨Decryption of (y1 , . . . ,

y|D|

)
is θ far from RS code

crs ←SNARK.Setup(1λ)
(com, π) ←P∗(crs)
1 ←SNARK.Verify(crs, com, π)
y1 , . . . ,

y|D|

←EP ∗(crs)
⎤
⎦⩽ε(θ),
where “decryption is θ far from RS codeword” means there exists an f 0 :
D →F such that ∀i ∈[|D|], the decryption yi of yi agrees with f 0 on
D[i] and δ(f 0, RS [F, D, ρ]) ⩾θ.
– Succinctness: The proof size should be sublinear in the instance size, i.e.,
|π| ∈o(d, |D|).
4.3
FRI on LHEncap
In this section, we present our key observation about the FRI [BBHR18] proto-
col. In particular, we show how the FRI protocol can be modiﬁed to work over
hidden values. We refer to the modiﬁed protocol as FRI on LHEncap. At a high-
level, FRI on LHEncap is an interactive oracle proof [BCS16] for the following
problem: Let F be a ﬁeld, d ∈N a degree-bound, θ > 0 a proximity parameter,
D ⊆F a domain and (KeyGen, Encap, Eval) an LHEncap scheme. The prover is
provided with encapsulations of the evaluations of some function f on domain
D, i.e., {f(i)}i∈D (we use the shorthand notation f(x)|D to denote this set
of encapsulations). The prover gives the veriﬁer oracle access to these encapsula-
tions. The prover wants to convince the veriﬁer that f(x)|D are encapsulations
of evaluations of some degree d polynomial on this domain D. Namely, that
f ∈RS [F, D, ρ = d/|D|].
We provide a formal description of this protocol below (as discussed in
Remark 1, for simplicity, here we assume that F is an FFT-friendly ﬁeld. How-
ever, similar ideas can be extended to arbitrary ﬁelds using techniques from
[BCKL23,BCKL22]).
26 Here, we assume the knowledge extractor holds the secret key for LHEncap. This
makes sense because in all of our applications, the veriﬁer does hold the secret key.

How to Prove Statements Obliviously?
475
FRI on LHEncap
Setup:
Let
D
=
{ω0, . . . , ω|D|−1}
be
the
set
of
|D|th
roots
of
unity
and H
=
{ν0, . . . , νd−1} be the set of dth roots of unity. Let f|H
=

f(ν0)

, . . . ,

f(νd−1)

∈Sd denote the instance, where f ∈F⩽d[x] and S denotes
the output-space of some LHEncap.
a Let RS [F, D, ρ] be a familiy of Reed-Solomon
codes. We assume that the prover P has f|H.
Commit Phase: The commit phase proceeds as follows:
– P uses FFT techniques on the set f|H to compute encapsulations f|D =

f(ω0)

, . . . ,

f(ω|D|−1)

. It sends oracle access to these encapsulations
f|D to V.
– Set f0 = f. For rounds i = 0, . . . , log2 d −1, the protocol proceeds as follows:
1. V samples a random challenge αi ∈F and sends it to P.
2. For each j ∈[0, |D|/2i −1], P computes

fi+1(ω2i+1·j)

=
⎛
⎝

fi(ω2i·j)

+

fi(−ω2i·j)

2
+ αi ·

fi(ω2i·j)

−

fi(−ω2i·j)

2 · ω2i·j
⎞
⎠
3. Let Di+1 =

ω2i+1·j
j∈[0,|D|/2i−1] and give the veriﬁer oracle access to

fi+1|Di+1

.
– At the end, P simply sends encapsulations of all evaluations of the last con-
stant polynomial on domain Dlog2 d, i.e., {flog2 d(β)}β∈Dlog2 d to V.
Query Phase: The query phase proceeds as follows:
– V repeats the following ℓtimes:
1. Sample a random s0 ∈D.
2. For each i ∈[0, log2 d −1], set si+1 = s2
i . Let s′
i = −si ̸= si be the other
element in Di, such that si+1 = (s′
i)2. Query oracle f|Di on evaluation
points si and s′
i to get fi(si) and fi(s′
i). Check if the following holds:
• If LHEncap is linearly-homomorphic w.r.t. randomness, check if
fi+1(si+1) =
fi(si) + fi(s′
i)
2
+ αi · fi(si) −fi(s′
i)
2 · si

.
• Else,
if
LHEncap
is
decryptable,
then
decrypt
fi+1(si+1) , fi(si) , fi(s′
i) and check if
fi+1(si+1)
?=
fi(si) + fi(s′
i)
2
+ αi · fi(si) −fi(s′
i)
2 · si

.
– If LHEncap is linearly-homomorphic w.r.t. randomness, check if, for all β ∈
Dlog2 d, flog2 d(β) is the same encapsulation. Else, if LHEncap is decryptable,
then check if for all β ∈Dlog2 d, flog2 d(β) decrypt to the same value.

476
S. Garg et al.
– If all the above checks verify, output accept, else output reject.
a Note that this implies that the encapsulations

f(ν0)

, . . . ,

f(νd−1)

may or
may not correspond to well-formed/honestly generated encapsulations.
Completeness and Soundness. It is easy to see that the completeness of the
above protocol follows from the completeness of the FRI protocol and linearly-
homomorphic property of LHEncap. Recently, Block et al. [BGK+23] presented a
formal proof establishing that the FRI IOP satisﬁes round-by-round knowledge
soundness [CCH+19]. Similar ideas also naturally extend to our FRI on LHEncap
protocol. Formally speaking, the following theorem follows from [BGK+23].
Theorem 1 (Round-by-Round
Knowledge
Soundness
of
FRI
on
LHEncap). Let F be a ﬁnite ﬁeld, a degree-bound d ∈N, ρ = d/|D|, a domain
D ⊆F. For any integer m ⩾3, η ∈(0, √ρ/2m), θ ∈(0, 1 −√ρ −η), encap-
sulations of evaluations of a function f that has relative distance ⩾θ from
RS [F, D, ρ = d/|D|], FRI on a decryptable LHEncap has the following round-by-
round knowledge soundness error (See [CCH+19] for the deﬁnition)
ε = max
(m + 1/2)7 · |D|2
3ρ3/2|F|
, (1 −θ)ℓ

.
Additionally, if the LHEncap is randomness homomorphic and the prover’s ﬁrst
message (i.e., the ﬁrst layer of FRI) in FRI on LHEncap is honestly generated,27
then FRI on the randomness homomorphic LHEncap enjoys the same round-by-
round knowledge soundness error as stated above.
Proof (Proof Sketch.). If the underlying LHEncap is decryptable, then round-by-
round knowledge soundness of FRI on LHEncap can be reduced to the round-by-
round knowledge soundness of FRI [BGK+23]. In particular, assuming existence
of a PPT adversary A who can break the round-by-round knowledge soundness
of FRI on LHEncap, we can design another PPT adversary B who can break the
round-by-round knowledge soundness of FRI as follows: Given an instance, B
computes encapsulations of this instance and forwards them to A. B forwards all
the veriﬁer challenges to A. Whenever A sends an oracle of encapsulated values,
B queries this oracle at all locations, decrypts the encapsulated responses, and
gives oracle access to these decrypted values to its veriﬁer (In case any of these
responses are not well-formed or they decrypt to ⊥, B samples some garbage
value and uses that instead of ⊥). It is easy to see that if A manages to violate
round-by-round knowledge soundness of FRI on LHEncap, then B will be able to
break round-by-round knowledge soundness of FRI.
27 This is a reasonable assumption because, in many target applications, the ﬁrst layer
of FRI is public and generated in the preprocessing phase. For example, in the thresh-
old signature application, the ﬁrst layer of FRI is the polynomial deﬁned by parties’
public keys. Therefore, in the preprocessing phase, every party can check if the
prover’s ﬁrst message is computed correctly or not. To understand why this assump-
tion is necessary, we refer the readers to the proof.

How to Prove Statements Obliviously?
477
If the underlying LHEncap is linearly-homomorphic w.r.t. randomness, then
round-by-round soundness of FRI on LHEncap does hold just like plain FRI as
argued in [BGK+23]. This is because, in this case, all the checks by the veriﬁer
are performed on the encapsulations (and not on the encapsulated values). This
is essentially equivalent to running the FRI protocol, albeit on the encapsulations.
However, if we want round-by-round knowledge soundness, then we need to
extract the correct encapsulated low-degree polynomial. In general, FRI extractor
needs to perform error-correction to extract the correct polynomial. However,
error-correction is not a linear operation; it is not clear how one can perform
it on encapsulations. For this reason, we require the ﬁrst layer to be honestly
generated. Hence, no error-correction is needed.
SNARK for Low-Degree Testing on LHEncap. Applying the [BCS16] trans-
formation on the above protocol yields a SNARK (in the random-oracle model)
for low-degree testing on LHEncap. It is easy to see that completeness of the
resulting SNARK follows from the completeness of the FRI protocol, the [BCS16]
transformation and linearly-homomorphic property of LHEncap. For knowledge
soundness, we obtain the following corollary.28
Corollary 1 (Knowledge Soundness of FRI based SNARK for Low-
Degree Testing on LHEncap). Let F be a ﬁnite ﬁeld, d ∈N a degree-bound,
ρ = d/|D|, a domain D ⊆F. For any integer m ⩾3, η ∈(0, √ρ/2m),
θ ∈(0, 1 −√ρ −η), random oracle H, query bound Q ∈N, compiling FRI on
LHEncap on encapsulations of evaluations of a function f that has relative dis-
tance ⩾θ from RS [F, D, ρ = d/|D|], using the [BCS16] compiler yields a SNARK
for low-degree testing on LHEncap with the following knowledge soundness error:
ε = Q · max
(m + 1/2)7 · |D|2
3ρ3/2|F|
, (1 −θ)ℓ

+ 3(Q2 + 1)
d
.
Complexity. The dominant part of the prover’s work in the above protocol
is the FFT operations for extending the evaluation domain of the polynomial.
Assuming |D| = O(d), this complexity is O(d log d). The proof involves sending
oracles (i.e., commitments to these oracles in the non-interactive variant) to the
veriﬁer in each round. Additionally, to ensure negligible knowledge soundness
error, the veriﬁer makes O(λ · log d) oracle queries; in particular, λ queries per
layer. In the non-interactive variant, these oracle queries correspond to vector
commitment openings – for Merkle Hash-based commitment, the size of the
opening proof for each query is O(log d). As a result, in the non-interactive
protocol, the proof size is O(λ · log2 d), and the veriﬁer also runs in O(λ · log2 d)
time. In the rest of the paper, we do not explicitly write the λ factor when
describing the eﬃciency of the scheme. We emphasize that the above protocol
does not make any non-black-box use of the underlying LHEncap scheme.
28 For appropriately chosen parameters, the knowledge soundness error ε in Corollary 1
can be made negligible in λ.

478
S. Garg et al.
5
Polynomial Commitments on Hidden Values
In this section, we present our polynomial commitment scheme on hidden val-
ues. In Sect. 5.1, we formalize the notion of polynomial commitment schemes on
hidden values. In Sect. 5.2, we present a construction of this primitive using the
FRI-based SNARK for low-degree testing on LHEncap from Sect. 4.3.
5.1
Deﬁning Polynomial Commitments on LHEncap
In this section, we formalize a variant of polynomial commitments, that we refer
to as polynomial commitments on LHEncap.
Deﬁnition 5 (Polynomial Commitments on LHEncap). A polynomial com-
mitment on LHEncap for degree d polynomials consists of a tuple of PPT algo-
rithms (Gen, Com) and a SNARK (see Deﬁnition 2) for a speciﬁc problem, deﬁned
as follows.
1. pp ←Gen(1λ): The generator takes the security parameter λ as input and
outputs public parameters pp.
2. σ ←Com(pp, {xi, yi}i∈[d+1]): The commit algorithm takes as input the pub-
lic parameters pp, the evaluation points {xi}i∈[d+1] ∈Fd+1 (in the clear) and
the evaluations {yi}i∈[d+1] (hidden inside LHEncap). It outputs a succinct
commitment σ.
3. A SNARK ΠSNARK = (SNARK.Setup, SNARK.Prove, SNARK.Verify) where the
committer C acts as the prover and the receiver R acts as the veriﬁer, for the
following problem:
– Statement: st =

pp, σ, {xi}i∈[d+1], x∗, y∗

– Witness: wit =

{yi}i∈[d+1]

– Relation Rpoly: (1) σ is a commitment to wit. (2) Let f ∈F⩽d[x] be the
polynomial deﬁned by interpolating y1, . . . , yd+1, then y∗ is an encapsu-
lation of f(x∗).
We use the shorthand b ←ΠSNARK⟨C(st, wit, Rpoly), R(st, Rpoly)⟩, where b ∈
{0, 1}, to denote the output of the above SNARK.
A polynomial commitment on LHEncap must satisfy the following.
Correctness: For correctness, the veriﬁer should always accept honestly gen-
erated proofs. Formally speaking, for all polynomials f ∈F⩽d[x], any set of
evaluation points {xi}i∈[d+1] and any x∗, it holds that
Pr
⎡
⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎣
b = 1

pp ←Gen(1λ), σ ←Com(pp, {xi, f(xi)}i∈[d+1])
y∗ = L(y1 , . . . , yn)
st =

pp, σ, {xi}i∈[d+1], x∗, y∗

wit =

{f(xi)}i∈[d+1]

b ←ΠSNARK⟨C(st, wit, Rpoly), R(st, Rpoly)⟩
⎤
⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎦
= 1,

How to Prove Statements Obliviously?
479
where L is the linear function deﬁned by the Lagrange interpolation w.r.t.
{xi}i∈[d+1] and x∗.
Binding/Extraction: The binding property requires that there exists an extrac-
tor E, such that for any PPT adversary A, any {xi}i∈[d+1], and any x∗, the
following holds.
– If LHEncap is linearly-homomorphic w.r.t. randomness, then we have:
Pr
⎡
⎢⎢⎢⎢⎣
y∗ ̸= L(y1 , . . . , yn)

pp ←Gen(1λ)
σ ←A(pp, {xi}i∈[d+1])
st =

pp, σ, {xi}i∈[d+1], x∗, y∗

1 ←ΠSNARK⟨A(st, Rpoly), R(st, Rpoly)⟩

{yi}i∈[d+1]

←EA(pp)
⎤
⎥⎥⎥⎥⎦
⩽negl(λ) ,
where L is the linear function deﬁned by the Lagrange interpolation w.r.t. {xi}i∈[d+1] and
x∗.
– Else, if LHEncap is decryptable, then we have:
Pr
⎡
⎢⎢⎢⎢⎣
y∗̸= f(x∗)

pp ←Gen(1λ)
σ ←A(pp, {xi}i∈[d+1])
st =

pp, σ, {xi}i∈[d+1], x∗, y∗

1 ←ΠSNARK⟨A(st, Rpoly), R(st, Rpoly)⟩

{yi}i∈[d+1]

←EA(pp)
⎤
⎥⎥⎥⎥⎦
⩽negl(λ) ,
where f ∈F⩽d[x] is uniquely deﬁned by, ∀i ∈[d + 1], the decryption yi of yi agrees with
f(xi).
5.2
Constructing Polynomial Commitments on LHEncap
We are now ready to present a construction of polynomial commitment on LHEn-
cap using our construction of FRI based SNARK for low-degree testing on LHEn-
cap (see Sect. 4.3). We present a formal description of this protocol below.
Polynomial Commitment on LHEncap
Gen: Let D = {ω0, . . . , ω|D|−1} be the set of |D|th roots of unity and H =
{ν0, . . . , νd−1} be the set of dth roots of unity. Let RS [F, D, ρ]) be a familiy of
Reed-Solomon Codes.
Commit: Commit to encapsulations f|H =

f(ν0)

, . . . ,

f(νd−1)

, where f ∈
F⩽d[x] as follows:
– Using FFT techniques, the committer ﬁrst expands the evaluation from f|H
to f|D =

f(ω0)

, . . . ,

f(ω|D|−1)

.
– The
commitment
is
computed
as
a
Merkle
hash
on
the
vector

f(w0)

, . . . ,

f(w|D|−1)

.
Opening Proof: When asked to give an opening proof at x = x∗, the com-
mitter ﬁrst computes f(x∗) as follows: (1) it uses FFT techniques on

f(w0)

, . . . ,

f(w|D|−1)

to obtain encapsulations of the coeﬃcients of f(x) and
then (2) it takes an inner product of these with (1, x∗, (x∗)2, . . . , (x∗)d).

480
S. Garg et al.
Next, the committer outputs f(x∗) and runs the FRI-based SNARK for low-
degree testing on LHEncap on

f(x)−y∗
x−x∗

x∈D
with domain D, degree bound
d −1, and proximity parameter θ < 1−ρ
2 . Recall that, as discussed in Section 2.2,
oracle access to this encapsulated quotient polynomial can be emulated using
oracle access to encapsulated evaluations f(x) of f.
Correctness and Binding. Correctness of this polynomial commitment
scheme follows from the completeness of the FRI based SNARK for low-degree
testing on LHEncap protocol and from linear homomorphism of the underlying
LHEncap scheme. The binding property follows from the binding property of the
vector commitment and from the knowledge soundness of the FRI based SNARK
for low-degree testing on LHEncap. A formal proof for this follows exactly as that
for arguing the binding property of the polynomial commitment scheme from
FRI [BGKS20,Hab22].
Complexity. This scheme inherits the eﬃciency properties from FRI on LHEn-
cap. In particular, the opening proof size and veriﬁcation time for the opening
proof are O(log2 d). The time to generate the commitment is O(d log d).
Acknowledgement. The authors would like to thank Dario Fiore, Ignacio Cascudo,
Daniele Cozzo, and Paola de Perthuis for useful discussions on the security of ver-
ifying FHE delegation and also for bringing several related works to our attention.
The authors would also like to thank Jiayi Kang and Frederik Vercauteren for their
assistance in addressing an issue in the zkSNARK delegation protocol in a previous
draft of this paper. The ﬁrst and third authors are supported in part by DARPA
under Agreement No. HR00112020026, AFOSR Award FA9550-19-1-0200, NSF CNS
Award 1936826, and research grants by Visa Inc, BAIR Commons Meta Fund, Stellar
Development Foundation, and a Bakar Fellows Spark Award.
References
ACGSV23. Aranha, D.F., Costache, A., Guimarães, A., Soria-Vazquez, E.: Heliopolis:
veriﬁable computation over homomorphically encrypted data from interac-
tive oracle proofs is practical. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2023/1949
(2023). https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1949
AFG+10. Abe, M., Fuchsbauer, G., Groth, J., Haralambiev, K., Ohkubo, M.:
Structure-preserving signatures and commitments to group elements. In:
Rabin, T. (ed.) CRYPTO 2010. LNCS, vol. 6223, pp. 209–236. Springer,
Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-14623-7_12
AHIV17. Ames, S., Hazay, C., Ishai, Y., Venkitasubramaniam, M.: Ligero: lightweight
sublinear arguments without a trusted setup. In: Thuraisingham, B.M.,
Evans, D., Malkin, T., Xu, D. (eds.) ACM CCS 2017: 24th Conference on
Computer and Communications Security, pp. 2087–2104, Dallas, TX, USA,
31 October–2 November 2017. ACM Press (2017). https://doi.org/10.1145/
3133956.3134104
AIK10. Applebaum, B., Ishai, Y., Kushilevitz, E.: From secrecy to soundness: eﬃ-
cient veriﬁcation via secure computation. In: Abramsky, S., Gavoille, C.,
Kirchner, C., Meyer auf der Heide, F., Spirakis, P.G. (eds.) ICALP 2010.

How to Prove Statements Obliviously?
481
LNCS, vol. 6198, pp. 152–163. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-642-14165-2_14
AN21. Applebaum, B., Nir, O.: Upslices, downslices, and secret-sharing with com-
plexity of 1.5n. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) CRYPTO 2021, Part III.
LNCS, vol. 12827, pp. 627–655. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-84252-9_21
BBB+18. Bünz, B., Bootle, J., Boneh, D., Poelstra, A., Wuille, P., Maxwell, G.: Bul-
letproofs: short proofs for conﬁdential transactions and more. In: 2018 IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy, pp. 315–334, San Francisco, CA, USA,
21–23 May 2018. IEEE Computer Society Press (2018). https://doi.org/10.
1109/SP.2018.00020
BBHR18. Ben-Sasson, E., Bentov, I., Horesh, Y., Riabzev, M.: Fast Reed-Solomon
interactive oracle proofs of proximity. In: Chatzigiannakis, I., Kaklamanis,
C., Marx, D., Sannella, D. (eds.) ICALP 2018: 45th International Collo-
quium on Automata, Languages and Programming. LIPIcs, vol. 107, pp.
14:1–14:17, Prague, Czech Republic, 9–13 July 2018. Schloss Dagstuhl -
Leibniz-Zentrum fuer Informatik (2018). https://doi.org/10.4230/LIPIcs.
ICALP.2018.14
BCC+16. Bootle, J., Cerulli, A., Chaidos, P., Groth, J., Petit, C.: Eﬃcient zero-
knowledge arguments for arithmetic circuits in the discrete log setting. In:
Fischlin, M., Coron, J.-S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2016, Part II. LNCS, vol.
9666, pp. 327–357. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-662-49896-5_12
BCC+17. Bitansky, N., et al.: The hunting of the SNARK. J. Cryptol. 30(4), 989–1066
(2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/s00145-016-9241-9
BCFK21. Bois, A., Cascudo, I., Fiore, D., Kim, D.: Flexible and eﬃcient veriﬁable
computation on encrypted data. In: Garay, J.A. (ed.) PKC 2021, Part II.
LNCS, vol. 12711, pp. 528–558. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-75248-4_19
BCG+14. Ben-Sasson, E., et a.: Zerocash: decentralized anonymous payments from
bitcoin. In: 2014 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, pp. 459–474,
Berkeley, CA, USA, 18–21 May 2014. IEEE Computer Society Press (2014).
https://doi.org/10.1109/SP.2014.36
BCG+17. Bootle, J., Cerulli, A., Ghadaﬁ, E., Groth, J., Hajiabadi, M., Jakobsen,
S.K.: Linear-time zero-knowledge proofs for arithmetic circuit satisﬁability.
In: Takagi, T., Peyrin, T. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2017, Part III. LNCS, vol.
10626, pp. 336–365. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
319-70700-6_12
BCG+18. Bootle, J., Cerulli, A., Groth, J., Jakobsen, S., Maller, M.: Arya: nearly
linear-time zero-knowledge proofs for correct program execution. In: Peyrin,
T., Galbraith, S. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2018, Part I. LNCS, vol. 11272, pp.
595–626. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-03326-
2_20
BCG20a. Bootle, J., Chiesa, A., Groth, J.: Linear-time arguments with sublinear ver-
iﬁcation from tensor codes. In: Pass, R., Pietrzak, K. (eds.) TCC 2020, Part
II. LNCS, vol. 12551, pp. 19–46. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-64378-2_2
BCG+20b. Bowe, S., Chiesa, A., Green, M., Miers, I., Mishra, P., Wu, H.: ZEXE:
enabling decentralized private computation. In: 2020 IEEE Symposium
on Security and Privacy, pp. 947–964, San Francisco, CA, USA, 18–21

482
S. Garg et al.
May 2020. IEEE Computer Society Press (2020). https://doi.org/10.1109/
SP40000.2020.00050
BCI+20. Ben-Sasson, E., Carmon, D., Ishai, Y., Kopparty, S., Saraf, S.: Proximity
gaps for Reed-Solomon codes. In: 61st Annual Symposium on Foundations of
Computer Science, pp. 900–909, Durham, NC, USA, 16–19 November 2020.
IEEE Computer Society Press (2020). https://doi.org/10.1109/FOCS46700.
2020.00088
BCKL22. Ben-Sasson, E., Carmon, D., Kopparty, S., Levit, D.: Scalable and trans-
parent proofs over all large ﬁelds, via elliptic curves - (ECFFT part II). In:
Kiltz, E., Vaikuntanathan, V. (eds.) TCC 2022, Part I. LNCS, vol. 13747, pp.
467–496. Springer, Cham (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-22318-
1_17
BCKL23. Ben-Sasson, E., Carmon, D., Kopparty, S., Levit, D.: Elliptic curve fast
Fourier transform (ECFFT) part I: low-degree extension in time O(n log
n) over all ﬁnite ﬁelds. In: Bansal, N., Nagarajan, V. (eds.) Proceedings
of the 2023 ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms. SODA 2023,
Florence, Italy, 22–25 January 2023, pp. 700–737. SIAM (2023). https://doi.
org/10.1137/1.9781611977554.ch30
BCL22. Bootle, J., Chiesa, A., Liu, S.: Zero-knowledge IOPs with linear-time prover
and polylogarithmic-time veriﬁer. In: Dunkelman, O., Dziembowski, S. (eds.)
EUROCRYPT 2022, Part II. LNCS, vol. 13276, pp. 275–304. Springer, Cham
(2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-07085-3_10
BCS16. Ben-Sasson, E., Chiesa, A., Spooner, N.: Interactive oracle proofs. In: Hirt,
M., Smith, A. (eds.) TCC 2016. LNCS, vol. 9986, pp. 31–60. Springer, Hei-
delberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53644-5_2
BDN18. Boneh, D., Drijvers, M., Neven, G.: Compact multi-signatures for smaller
blockchains. In: Peyrin, T., Galbraith, S. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2018. LNCS,
vol. 11273, pp. 435–464. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-03329-3_15
BGJ+23. Baird, L., et al.: Threshold signatures in the multiverse. In: 44th IEEE Sym-
posium on Security and Privacy. SP 2023, San Francisco, CA, USA, 21–25
May 2023, pp. 1454–1470. IEEE (2023)
BGK+23. Block, A.R., Garreta, A., Katz, J., Thaler, J., Tiwari, P.R., Zając, M.: Fiat-
Shamir security of FRI and related snarks. In: ASIACRYPT 2023 (2023).
https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1071
BGKS20. Ben-Sasson, E., Goldberg, L., Kopparty, S., Saraf, S.: DEEP-FRI: sampling
outside the box improves soundness. In: Vidick, T. (ed.) ITCS 2020: 11th
Innovations in Theoretical Computer Science Conference, vol. 151, pp. 5:1–
5:32, Seattle, WA, USA, 12–14 January 2020. LIPIcs (2020). https://doi.
org/10.4230/LIPIcs.ITCS.2020.5
BGV11. Benabbas, S., Gennaro, R., Vahlis, Y.: Veriﬁable delegation of computation
over large datasets. In: Rogaway, P. (ed.) CRYPTO 2011. LNCS, vol. 6841,
pp. 111–131. Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
642-22792-9_7
BHS23. Benhamouda, F., Halevi, S.: Stambler, L.: Weighted secret sharing from
wiretap channels. In: ITC 2023 (2023). https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/1578
BHV+23. Bhadauria, R., Hazay, C., Venkitasubramaniam, M., Wu, W., Zhang, Y.:
Private polynomial commitments and applications to MPC. In: PKC 2023
(2023). https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/680

How to Prove Statements Obliviously?
483
BLS01. Boneh, D., Lynn, B., Shacham, H.: Short signatures from the weil pairing. In:
Boyd, C. (ed.) ASIACRYPT 2001. LNCS, vol. 2248, pp. 514–532. Springer,
Heidelberg (2001). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-45682-1_30
BMM+21. Bünz, B., Maller, M., Mishra, P., Tyagi, N., Vesely, P.: Proofs for inner
pairing products and applications. In: Tibouchi, M., Wang, H. (eds.) ASI-
ACRYPT 2021. LNCS, vol. 13092, pp. 65–97. Springer, Cham (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-92078-4_3
Bol03. Boldyreva, A.: Threshold signatures, multisignatures and blind signatures
based on the gap-Diﬃe-Hellman-group signature scheme. In: Desmedt, Y.G.
(ed.) PKC 2003. LNCS, vol. 2567, pp. 31–46. Springer, Heidelberg (2003).
https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-36288-6_3
CBBZ23. Chen, B., Bünz, B., Boneh, D., Zhang, Z.: HyperPlonk: plonk with linear-
time prover and high-degree custom gates. In: Hazay, C., Stam, M. (eds.)
EUROCRYPT 2023, Part II. LNCS, vol. 14005, pp. 499–530. Springer, Cham
(2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-30617-4_17
CCH+19. Canetti, R., Chen, Y., Holmgren, J., Lombardi, A., Rothblum, G.N., Roth-
blum, R.D., Wichs, D.: Fiat-Shamir: from practice to theory. In: Charikar,
M., Cohen, E. (eds.) 51st Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Comput-
ing, pp. 1082–1090, Phoenix, AZ, USA, 23–26 June 2019. ACM Press (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1145/3313276.3316380
CHM+20. Chiesa, A., Hu, Y., Maller, M., Mishra, P., Vesely, N., Ward, N.: Marlin:
preprocessing zkSNARKs with universal and updatable SRS. In: Canteaut,
A., Ishai, Y. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2020. LNCS, vol. 12105, pp. 738–768.
Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-45721-1_26
CK21. Chaidos, P., Kiayias, A.: Mithril: stake-based threshold multisignatures.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2021/916 (2021). https://eprint.iacr.org/
2021/916
CKV10. Chung, K.-M., Kalai, Y., Vadhan, S.: Improved delegation of computation
using fully homomorphic encryption. In: Rabin, T. (ed.) CRYPTO 2010.
LNCS, vol. 6223, pp. 483–501. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-642-14623-7_26
CLMZ23. Chiesa, A., Lehmkuhl, R., Mishra, P., Zhang, Y.: Eos: eﬃcient private
delegation of zkSNARK provers. In: 32nd USENIX Security Symposium
(USENIX Security 23), pp. 6453–6469, Anaheim, CA, August 2023. USENIX
Association (2023). https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity23/
presentation/chiesa
COS20. Chiesa, A., Ojha, D., Spooner, N.: Fractal: post-quantum and transpar-
ent recursive proofs from holography. In: Canteaut, A., Ishai, Y. (eds.)
EUROCRYPT 2020. LNCS, vol. 12105, pp. 769–793. Springer, Cham (2020).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-45721-1_27
DCX+23. Das, S., Camacho, P., Xiang, Z., Nieto, J., Bunz, B., Ren, L.: Threshold
signatures from inner product argument: succinct, weighted, and multi-
threshold. In: CCS 2023 (2023). https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/598
DYX+22. Das, S., Yurek, T., Xiang, Z., Miller, A.K., Kokoris-Kogias, L., Ren, L.:
Practical asynchronous distributed key generation. In: 2022 IEEE Sympo-
sium on Security and Privacy, pp. 2518–2534, San Francisco, CA, USA,
22–26 May 2022. IEEE Computer Society Press (2022). https://doi.org/10.
1109/SP46214.2022.9833584
ElG84. ElGamal, T.: A public key cryptosystem and a signature scheme based
on discrete logarithms. In: Blakley, G.R., Chaum, D. (eds.) CRYPTO’84.

484
S. Garg et al.
LNCS, vol. 196, pp. 10–18. Springer, Heidelberg (1984). https://doi.org/10.
1007/3-540-39568-7_2
FGP14. Fiore, D., Gennaro, R., Pastro, V.: Eﬃciently veriﬁable computation on
encrypted data. In: Ahn, G.-J., Yung, M., Li, N., (eds.) ACM CCS 2014:
21st Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pp. 844–855,
Scottsdale, AZ, USA, 3–7 November 2014. ACM Press (2014). https://doi.
org/10.1145/2660267.2660366
FNP20. Fiore, D., Nitulescu, A., Pointcheval, D.: Boosting veriﬁable computation
on encrypted data. In: Kiayias, A., Kohlweiss, M., Wallden, P., Zikas, V.
(eds.) PKC 2020. LNCS, vol. 12111, pp. 124–154. Springer, Cham (2020).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-45388-6_5
FS87. Fiat, A., Shamir, A.: How to prove yourself: practical solutions to identi-
ﬁcation and signature problems. In: Odlyzko, A.M. (ed.) CRYPTO 1986.
LNCS, vol. 263, pp. 186–194. Springer, Heidelberg (1987). https://doi.org/
10.1007/3-540-47721-7_12
Gen09. Gentry, C., Fully homomorphic encryption using ideal lattices. In: Mitzen-
macher, M. (ed.) 41st Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing,
pp. 169–178, Bethesda, MD, USA, 31 May–2 June 2009. ACM Press (2009).
https://doi.org/10.1145/1536414.1536440
GGJ+23. Garg, S., Goel, A., Jain, A., Policharla, G.-V., Sekar, S.: zkSaaS: Zero-
knowledge SNARKs as a service. In: 32nd USENIX Security Symposium
(USENIX Security 23), pp. 4427–4444, Anaheim, CA, 2023 August .USENIX
Association (2023). https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity23/
presentation/garg
GGP10. Gennaro, R., Gentry, C., Parno, B.: Non-interactive veriﬁable computing:
outsourcing computation to untrusted workers. In: Rabin, T. (ed.) CRYPTO
2010. LNCS, vol. 6223, pp. 465–482. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-14623-7_25
GGPR13. Gennaro, R., Gentry, C., Parno, B., Raykova, M.: Quadratic span programs
and succinct NIZKs without PCPs. In: Johansson, T., Nguyen, P.Q. (eds.)
EUROCRYPT 2013. LNCS, vol. 7881, pp. 626–645. Springer, Heidelberg
(2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-38348-9_37
GGW23. Garg, S., Goel, A., Wang, M.: How to prove statements obliviously? IACR
Cryptology ePrint Archive, p. 1609 (2023). https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/
1609
GHAH+23. Green, M., Hall-Andersen, M., Hennenfent, E., Kaptchuk, G., Perez, B.,
Van Laer, G.: Eﬃcient proofs of software exploitability for real-world pro-
cessors. Proc. Privacy Enhanc. Technol. 2023(1), 627–640 (2023). https://
doi.org/10.56553/popets-2023-0036
GHL22. Gentry, C., Halevi, S., Lyubashevsky, V.: Practical non-interactive pub-
licly veriﬁable secret sharing with thousands of parties. In: Dunkelman, O.,
Dziembowski, S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2022, Part I. LNCS, vol. 13275, pp.
458–487. Springer, Cham (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-06944-
4_16
GJKR07. Gennaro, R., Jarecki, S., Krawczyk, H., Rabin, T.: Secure distributed key
generation for discrete-log based cryptosystems. J. Cryptol. 20(1), 51–83
(2007). https://doi.org/10.1007/s00145-006-0347-3
GJM+23. Garg, S., Jain, A., Mukherjee, P., Sinha, R., Wang, M., Zhang, Y.: Cryp-
tography with weights: MPC, encryption and signatures. In: CRYPTO 2023
(2023). https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/1632

How to Prove Statements Obliviously?
485
GJM+24. Garg, S., Jain, A., Mukherjee, P., Sinha, R., Wang, M., Zhang, Y.: hints:
Threshold signatures with silent setup. In: IEEE S&P 2024 (2024). https://
eprint.iacr.org/2023/567
GLS+21. Golovnev, A., Lee, J., Setty, S., Thaler, J., Wahby, R.S.: Brakedown: linear-
time and post-quantum SNARKs for R1CS. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Report 2021/1043 (2021). https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/1043
Gro10. Groth, J.: Short pairing-based non-interactive zero-knowledge arguments.
In:
Abe,
M.
(ed.)
ASIACRYPT
2010.
LNCS,
vol.
6477,
pp.
321–
340. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-17373-
8_19
Gro16. Groth, J.: On the size of pairing-based non-interactive arguments. In: Fis-
chlin, M., Coron, J.-S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2016, Part II. LNCS, vol. 9666,
pp. 305–326. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
662-49896-5_11
Gro21. Groth, J.: Non-interactive distributed key generation and key resharing.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2021/339 (2021). https://eprint.iacr.org/
2021/339
GSW13. Gentry, C., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Homomorphic encryption from learning
with errors: conceptually-simpler, asymptotically-faster, attribute-based. In:
Canetti, R., Garay, J.A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2013, Part I. LNCS, vol. 8042,
pp. 75–92. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-
40041-4_5
GVW15. Gorbunov, S., Vaikuntanathan, V., Wichs, D.: Leveled fully homomorphic
signatures from standard lattices. In: Servedio, R.A., Rubinfeld, R. (eds.)
47th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, pp. 469–477, Port-
land, OR, USA, 14–17 June 2015. ACM Press (2015). https://doi.org/10.
1145/2746539.2746576
GWC19. Gabizon, A., Williamson, Z.J., Ciobotaru, O.: PLONK: permutations over
Lagrange-bases for oecumenical noninteractive arguments of knowledge.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2019/953 (2019). https://eprint.iacr.org/
2019/953
Hab22. Haböck, U.: A summary on the FRI low degree test. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Report 2022/1216 (2022). https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/1216
KGC+18. Kalodner, H.A., Goldfeder, S., Chen, X., Weinberg, S.M., Felten, E.W.:
Arbitrum: scalable, private smart contracts. In: Enck, W., Felt, A.P. (eds.)
USENIX Security 2018: 27th USENIX Security Symposium, pp. 1353–1370,
Baltimore, MD, USA, 15–17 August 2018. USENIX Association (2018)
Kil92. Kilian, J.: A note on eﬃcient zero-knowledge proofs and arguments
(extended abstract). In: 24th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Com-
puting, pp. 723–732, Victoria, BC, Canada, 4–6 May 1992. ACM Press
(1992). https://doi.org/10.1145/129712.129782
KMP20. Kothapalli, A., Masserova, E., Parno, B.: A direct construction for asymp-
totically optimal zkSNARKs. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/1318
(2020). https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/1318
KMS20. Kokoris-Kogias, E., Malkhi, D., Spiegelman, A.: Asynchronous distributed
key generation for computationally-secure randomness, consensus, and
threshold signatures. In: Ligatti, J., Ou, X., Katz, J., Vigna, G.: (eds.) ACM
CCS 2020: 27th Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pp.
1751–1767, Virtual Event, USA, 9–13 November 2020. ACM Press (2020).
https://doi.org/10.1145/3372297.3423364

486
S. Garg et al.
KPV22. Kattis, A.A., Panarin, K., Vlasov, A.: RedShift: transparent SNARKs from
list polynomial commitments. In: Yin, H., Stavrou, A., Cremers, C., Shi, E.
(eds.) ACM CCS 2022: 29th Conference on Computer and Communications
Security, pp. 1725–1737, Los Angeles, CA, USA, 7–11 November 2022. ACM
Press (2022). https://doi.org/10.1145/3548606.3560657
KZG10. Kate, A., Zaverucha, G.M., Goldberg, I.: Constant-size commitments to
polynomials and their applications. In: Abe, M. (ed.) ASIACRYPT 2010.
LNCS, vol. 6477, pp. 177–194. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-642-17373-8_11
Lee21. Lee, J.: Dory: eﬃcient, transparent arguments for generalised inner prod-
ucts and polynomial commitments. In: Nissim, K., Waters, B. (eds.) TCC
2021. LNCS, vol. 13043, pp. 1–34. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-030-90453-1_1
Mic94. Micali, S.: CS proofs (extended abstracts). In: 35th Annual Symposium on
Foundations of Computer Science, pp. 436–453, Santa Fe, NM, USA, 20–22
November 1994. IEEE Computer Society Press (1994). https://doi.org/10.
1109/SFCS.1994.365746
MPSW19. Maxwell, G., Poelstra, A., Seurin, Y., Wuille, P.: Simple Schnorr multi-
signatures with applications to bitcoin. Des. Codes Cryptogr. 87(9), 2139–
2164 (2019)
MRV+21. Micali, S., Reyzin, L., Vlachos, G., Wahby, R.S., Zeldovich, N.: Compact cer-
tiﬁcates of collective knowledge. In: 2021 IEEE Symposium on Security and
Privacy, pp. 626–641, San Francisco, CA, USA, 24–27 May 2021. IEEE Com-
puter Society Press (2021). https://doi.org/10.1109/SP40001.2021.00096
NRS21. Nick, J., Ruﬃng, T., Seurin, Y.: MuSig2: simple two-round Schnorr multi-
signatures. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) CRYPTO 2021. LNCS, vol.
12825, pp. 189–221. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-84242-0_8
Pai99. Paillier, P.: Public-key cryptosystems based on composite degree residuosity
classes. In: Stern, J. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 1999. LNCS, vol. 1592, pp. 223–238.
Springer, Heidelberg (1999). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48910-X_16
Ped92. Pedersen, T.P.: Non-interactive and information-theoretic secure veriﬁable
secret sharing. In: Feigenbaum, J. (ed.) CRYPTO 1991. LNCS, vol. 576, pp.
129–140. Springer, Heidelberg (1992). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-46766-
1_9
PHGR13. Parno, B., Howell, J., Gentry, C., Raykova, M.: Pinocchio: nearly practical
veriﬁable computation. In: 2013 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy,
pp. 238–252, Berkeley, CA, USA, 19–22 May 2013. IEEE Computer Society
Press (2013). https://doi.org/10.1109/SP.2013.47
Plo21. Plonky2 (2021). https://github.com/mir-protocol/plonky2
Reg05. Regev, O.: On lattices, learning with errors, random linear codes, and cryp-
tography. In: Gabow, H.N., Fagin, R. (eds.) 37th Annual ACM Symposium
on Theory of Computing, pp. 84–93, Baltimore, MA, USA, 22–24 May 2005.
ACM Press (2005). https://doi.org/10.1145/1060590.1060603
RPX+22. Rathee, D., Policharla, G.V., Xie, T., Cottone, R., Song, D.: Zebra: anony-
mous credentials with practical on-chain veriﬁcation and applications to
KYC in DEFI. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2022/1286 (2022). https://
eprint.iacr.org/2022/1286
Sch90. Schnorr, C.P.: Eﬃcient identiﬁcation and signatures for smart cards. In:
Brassard, G. (ed.) CRYPTO 1989. LNCS, vol. 435, pp. 239–252. Springer,
New York (1990). https://doi.org/10.1007/0-387-34805-0_22

How to Prove Statements Obliviously?
487
Set20. Setty, S.: Spartan: eﬃcient and general-purpose zkSNARKs without trusted
setup. In: Micciancio, D., Ristenpart, T. (eds.) CRYPTO 2020. LNCS, vol.
12172, pp. 704–737. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-56877-1_25
Sha79. Shamir, A.: How to share a secret. Commun. Assoc. Comput. Mach. 22(11),
612–613 (1979)
TCZ+20. Tomescu, A., et al.: Towards scalable threshold cryptosystems. In: 2020
IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, pp. 877–893, San Francisco, CA,
USA, 18–21 May 2020. IEEE Computer Society Press (2020). https://doi.
org/10.1109/SP40000.2020.00059
WZC+18. Wu, H., Zheng, W., Chiesa, A., Popa, R.A., Stoica, I.: DIZK: a distributed
zero knowledge proof system. In: Enck, W., Felt, A.P. (eds.) USENIX Secu-
rity 2018: 27th USENIX Security Symposium, pp. 675–692, Baltimore, MD,
USA, 15–17 August 2018. USENIX Association (2018)
XZS22. Xie, T., Zhang, Y., Song, D.: Orion: zero knowledge proof with linear prover
time. In: Dodis, Y., Shrimpton, T. (eds.) CRYPTO 2022, Part IV. LNCS,
vol. 13510, pp. 299–328. Springer, Cham. (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-031-15985-5_11
XZZ+19. Xie, T., Zhang, J., Zhang, Y., Papamanthou, C., Song, D.: Libra: succinct
zero-knowledge proofs with optimal prover computation. In: Boldyreva,
A., Micciancio, D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019, Part III. LNCS, vol. 11694, pp.
733–764. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-26954-
8_24
ZFZS20. Zhang, J., Fang, Z., Zhang, Y., Song, D.: Zero knowledge proofs for decision
tree predictions and accuracy. In: Ligatti, J., Ou, X., Katz, J., Vigna, G.
(eds.) ACM CCS 2020: 27th Conference on Computer and Communications
Security, pp. 2039–2053, Virtual Event, USA, 9–13 November 2020. ACM
Press (2020). https://doi.org/10.1145/3372297.3417278
ZkR21. ZkRollups. An incomplete guide to rollups (2021). https://vitalik.ca/
general/2021/01/05/rollup.html
ZLW+21. Zhang, J., et al.: Doubly eﬃcient interactive proofs for general arithmetic
circuits with linear prover time. In: Vigna, G., Shi, E. (eds.) ACM CCS 2021:
28th Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pp. 159–177,
Virtual Event, Republic of Korea, 15–19 November 2021. ACM Press (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1145/3460120.3484767

