How to Recover a Secret with O(n)
Additions
Benny Applebaum1(B)
, Oded Nir1, and Benny Pinkas2
1 Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel
bennyap@post.tau.ac.il
2 Aptos Labs and Bar Ilan University, Ramat Gan, Israel
benny@pinkas.net
Abstract. Threshold cryptography is typically based on the idea of
secret-sharing a private-key s ∈F “in the exponent” of some crypto-
graphic group G, or more generally, encoding s in some linearly homo-
morphic domain. In each invocation of the threshold system (e.g., for
signing or decrypting) an “encoding” of the secret is being recovered and
so the complexity, measured as the number of group multiplications over
G, is equal to the number of F-additions that are needed to reconstruct
the secret. Motivated by this scenario, we initiate the study of n-party
secret-sharing schemes whose reconstruction algorithm makes a minimal
number of additions. The complexity of existing schemes either scales lin-
early with n log |F| (e.g., Shamir, CACM’79) or, at least, quadratically
with n independently of the size of the domain F (e.g., Cramer-Xing,
EUROCRYPT ’20). This leaves open the existence of a secret sharing
whose recovery algorithm can be computed by performing only O(n)
additions.
We resolve the question in the aﬃrmative and present such a near-
threshold secret sharing scheme that provides privacy against unautho-
rized sets of density at most τp, and correctness for authorized sets of
density at least τc, for any given arbitrarily close constants τp < τc.
Reconstruction can be computed by making at most O(n) additions
and, in addition, (1) the share size is constant, (2) the sharing proce-
dure also makes only O(n) additions, and (3) the scheme is a blackbox
secret-sharing scheme, i.e., the sharing and reconstruction algorithms
work universally for all ﬁnite abelian groups F. Prior to our work, no
such scheme was known even without features (1)–(3) and even for the
ramp setting where τp and τc are far apart. As a by-product, we derive
the ﬁrst blackbox near-threshold secret-sharing scheme with linear-time
sharing. We also present several concrete instantiations of our approach
that seem practically eﬃcient (e.g., for threshold discrete-log-based sig-
natures).
Our constructions are combinatorial in nature. We combine graph-
based erasure codes that support “peeling-based” decoding with a new
randomness extraction method that is based on inner-product with
B. Applebaum and O. Nir are supported by ISF grant no. 2805/21 and by the European
Union (ERC-2022-ADG) under grant agreement no.101097959 NFITSC.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2023
H. Handschuh and A. Lysyanskaya (Eds.): CRYPTO 2023, LNCS 14081, pp. 236–262, 2023.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-38557-5_8

How to Recover a Secret with O(n) Additions
237
a small-integer vector. We also introduce a general concatenation-like
transform for secret-sharing schemes that allows us to arbitrarily shrink
the privacy-correctness gap with a minor overhead. Our techniques enrich
the secret-sharing toolbox and, in the context of blackbox secret sharing,
provide a new alternative to existing number-theoretic approaches.
Keywords: Secret Sharing · Threshold Cryptography · Blackbox
secret sharing
1
Introduction
1.1
Motivation
Threshold signatures and threshold cryptosystems [21,22] typically rely on lin-
ear secret sharing schemes [8,41] “over the exponent” of some abelian group G.
Speciﬁcally, each server i holds a share si of the secret key s, and, loosely speak-
ing, the signing process (or decryption process in threshold encryption) has the
following form: The client broadcasts to the servers a public value M (e.g., the
hash of the message on which we want to sign) and each server i replies with
M si. The goal of the client is to compute the signature M s. If the client gets
enough responses, say at least τcn out of the n servers, she can compute the
signature (or decrypt the ciphertext) by computing a linear combination of the
shares “in the exponent”, i.e.,  M αisi, where the coeﬃcients αi depend on the
set T of servers that are available, and satisfy  αisi = s. The client computes
M αisi by raising each M si to the power of αi. By using repeated squaring, this
requires between log |αi| and 2 log |αi| group multiplications, and so the overall
complexity for |T| = n is about n log |αi| multiplications.1
The cost of computing  M αisi can be quite large when there are many
servers and when the group is large. For example, if one uses Shamir’s secret
sharing [41] the cost is Ω(n log p) multiplications where p is the order of group
G, even without accounting for the cost of computing the Lagrange coeﬃcients.
Alternatively, by employing a blackbox secret sharing (BBSS) [17,22] that works
“universally” over any ring (or even abelian group), the cost can be made inde-
pendent of p. However, the best existing schemes [19] use relatively large coeﬃ-
cients of bit-length Ω(n log n) and so the recovery in the exponent takes at least
Ω(n2 log n) multiplications. Furthermore, this holds even for the ramp setting
where the correctness τc threshold of the scheme is bounded away from the pri-
vacy threshold τp. (See Sect. 1.5 for more details about the cost of these two
approaches and of other related works.)
Our goal in this paper is to design secret-sharing schemes in which the overall
complexity of the recovery is linear in the number of parties. More precisely, we
1 The overhead of computing  M αisi can be reduced by computing a multi-
exponentiation, namely computing the ﬁnal result directly rather than computing
each M αisi separately and multiplying the results. This optimization, e.g. using
Pippenger’s algorithm [39], improves performance by a factor of O(log n), but when
log n ≪|αi| (which is the typical case in the threshold setting) this optimization has
a limited eﬀect compared to our improvements.

238
B. Applebaum et al.
would like to minimize the number of group multiplications that are performed
during reconstructions. One should note that the question can (and will) be
studied purely in terms of linear secret sharing schemes regardless of the encryp-
tion/signature system that is being used. Keeping in mind that every addition
in Zp translates into a multiplication over the group G, we are interested in the
following secret-sharing task:
Design a secret sharing scheme over Zp that supports secret-recovery with
a small number of additions. Sepciﬁcally, is it possible to achieve an asymp-
totic upper-bound of O(n) additions?
1.2
Our Results
We initiate the study of Additive-Only Secret-Sharing Schemes (AOS) and settle
the above question in the aﬃrmative for near-threshold secret sharing schemes.
Such schemes provide privacy against unauthorized sets of density at most τp,
and correctness for authorized sets of density at least τc, given some arbitrarily-
close constants τp < τc. We prove the following main theorem.
Theorem 1 (main theorem). For every constants 0 < τp < τc < 1 there
exists an ensemble of (τp, τc) near-threshold secret sharing schemes whose recov-
ery algorithm makes only O(n) additions. Moreover, (1) the share size is con-
stant, (2) the sharing also makes O(n) additions, and (3) the scheme is a BBSS
scheme and the sharing and reconstruction algorithms work universally for all
ﬁnite abelian groups G.
A few comments are in place.
– (Ensembles) The term ensemble refers to the fact that the scheme is param-
eterized with reusable public parameters that are sampled during the ran-
domized set-up of the system. It is guaranteed that, except with exponen-
tially small failure probability over the choice of the parameters, the result-
ing scheme satisﬁes correctness and privacy for all sets of density at most τc
and τp, respectively. That is, each choice of the public parameters deﬁnes a
scheme, and for almost all choices of the public parameters, τc-correctness
and τp-privacy hold. The public parameters can be placed in a public ﬁle
and can be re-used. We can also completely remove the public parameters
without aﬀecting the asymptotic complexity of the scheme at the expense
of introducing a negligible statistical error in the correctness and privacy.
(See Remark 3.) In typical applications (e.g., threshold cryptography), this
relaxation has a minor eﬀect (if any) since the secret sharing scheme will be
employed inside a computational system that can be broken anyway with a
small probability.
– (Main vs secondary features) We view the “near-threshold” property as
well as items (1–3) as “bonus” features. That is, even a weak theorem that,
for every large prime p, promises a ramp secret sharing scheme that supports
some concrete privacy and correctness thresholds (τp, τc) (e.g., (1/3, 2/3)) and
achieves recovery with O(n) additions and, say, quadratic sharing complexity

How to Recover a Secret with O(n) Additions
239
and super-constant share size, would be useful for many usage scenarios.
Furthermore, to the best of our knowledge, even the existence of such a weak
scheme was open prior to this work. We will later present such weak versions
of the main theorem that have very good concrete complexity and are likely
to be useful in practice. (See Sect. 1.4.)
– (Some advantages of the secondary features) The BBSS property is
especially useful for RSA-based threshold cryptography (e.g., threshold RSA
signatures such as in [42]). Moreover, as a by-product, Theorem 1 recov-
ers some recent fundamental results about the complexity of secret-sharing
schemes, such as the existence of BBSS near-threshold schemes with constant-
size shares [19] and the existence of linear-time computable secret-sharing
schemes [16,23]. (See Sect. 1.5). In fact, to the best of our knowledge, even
if we ignore the complexity of recovery, our results are the ﬁrst to obtain
linear-time computable BBSS schemes for any ramp-secret sharing scheme.
– (Application to LWE-based schemes) Our result is also relevant in the
context of LWE-based constructions (e.g., the threshold FHE of [9]). In this
case, instead of placing the shares si ∈Fp in the exponents, one releases
“noisy” versions of the shares modulo a larger prime q, and recovery is applied
over “noisy” shares. Large interpolation coeﬃcients expand the noise magni-
tude by a large factor and lead to errors (e.g., bad threshold-decryption).
To avoid this, one can encode separately each bit of the share, however, this
means that, in the recovery, each party has to send log p noisy elements instead
of a single one. Motivated by this problem, Ball et al. [2] studied the problem
of secret-sharing with 0–1 reconstruction coeﬃcients. (See Sect. 1.5.) We note
that the binary-reconstruction requirement can be typically relaxed to the
more liberal requirement of an addition-only reconstruction algorithm with
low depth since the bit-length of the noise grows linearly with the “depth”
of the algorithm. Indeed, all our constructions achieve an optimal depth of
O(log n), which makes them valuable also in the LWE setting.
1.3
Technical Overview
Additive-only Erasure Codes. We begin by ignoring the privacy condi-
tion in an attempt to construct “non-private” additive-only τc-correct schemes
with a recovery algorithm that performs only O(n) operations. When privacy
is removed, this is essentially equivalent to erasure codes that correct in the
presence of (1 −τc)-fraction of erasures. (For now, we think of the secret as
a vector of Θ(n) ﬁeld elements.) Our ﬁrst observation is that graph-theoretic
codes, e.g., binary low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes [25] and their deriva-
tives (e.g., [35]) admit an additive-only decoding algorithm.
Let us focus, for concreteness, on the LDPC case. An LDPC code that maps
k-long information words to n-long codewords is described by a (n−k)×n binary
parity-check matrix H which is sparse: i.e., each of its rows/columns contains
a constant number of ones. The set of codewords is the right kernel of H, i.e.,
all vectors v ∈Fn
2 for which Hv = 0n−k. We think of H as a constant-degree
bipartite graph G (the Tanner graph of H) whose n left vertices correspond to

240
B. Applebaum et al.
the codeword and its right n−k nodes correspond to constraints nodes. (In other
words, each constraint corresponds to a row of H.) The constraint associated
with a right node asserts that the sum of all the left nodes connected to it is
0. Given a partial codeword yT = (yi)i∈T we use the following peeling-based
decoding algorithm: (1) For i ∈T assign yi to the ith left vertex; (2) While
possible, pick a right (constraint) vertex r that all its neighbors i1, . . . , id−1 have
been assigned except for one neighbor id and set the value of the idth left-node
to 0 −(i1 + . . . + id−1). (The algorithm works with any subset of d −1 neighbors
that have already been assigned values. To simplify the notation, we denoted
these neighbors as i1, . . . , id−1.) It turns out that a proper choice of the graph
(or the sparse matrix) guarantees that, if one starts with a suﬃciently large set
of un-erased symbols T, the decoding process never stops until all the codeword
is recovered. In particular, such codes can achieve a constant rate R = k/n and
recover from a constant fraction of erasures. (In fact, one can get an almost
optimal trade-oﬀand, for any small ε > 0, design a sparse LDPC that recovers
the codeword from (R + ε) fraction of un-erased symbol, see e.g., [35,36].)
Observe that the above procedure works over any ﬁeld, or even abelian group,
G. In particular, if the codeword is a vector that satisﬁes the equation Hv =
0n−k then the peeling-based decoder works properly.2 Indeed, the success of
the decoding is independent of the underlying domain and depends only on
the combinatorial properties of the graph. The decoder performs at most m
additions where m = O(n) is the number of edges in the constant-degree graph.
Let us further assume, for now, that the code also admits an encoder that maps
k-long vectors to n-long codewords by making O(n) blackbox additions. This
assumption does not hold in general for LDPC codes, but it holds for other
related codes that support similar peeling-based decoding with O(n) additions,
e.g., [35]. (We will also explain later how to generically rely on an arbitrary
LDPC code that does not satisfy this additional requirement.)
From Additive-Only Codes to Additive-Only Secret-Sharing. It is well-
known that secret-sharing schemes are closely related to erasure codes [14,37,41].
The literature contains two main approaches for deriving secret-sharing from
codes. The ﬁrst traditional approach of Massey [37] (which is also implicit in
Shamir’s work [41]) is algebraic in nature and relies on the dual-distance of the
code. Roughly speaking, the idea is to sample a codeword y = (s, y1, . . . , yn) and
deliver yi as the share of the ith party. An authorized coalition of density τc can
recover the secret, by using decoding under (1 −τc)-fraction of erasures. It can
be proved that privacy holds for sets of density τp if the code has a dual distance
of τpn + 1. Unfortunately, the codes that are employed in our work (e.g., LDPC
codes) fail to achieve this property.
A second, more modern, approach of Cramer et al. [16] is information-
theoretic in nature. The idea is to encode a random information vector r into
2 The condition Hv = 0n−k is well deﬁned over any abelian group G by interpreting
the multiplication of a group element by an integer as iterated addition over G. See
Sect. 2 for details.

How to Recover a Secret with O(n) Additions
241
a codeword y = (y1, . . . , yn) and deliver yi as the share of the ith party. The
main observation is that, for a privacy threshold τp that is strictly smaller from
the code’s rate R, a τp-fraction of the parties has a small amount of information
about the information vector. Speciﬁcally, given their view, the information vec-
tor is distributed uniformly over a set of size exponential in (R−τp)n. Thus, one
can use pairwise independent hashing to extract from the information word r
an element that is almost-uniform conditioned on the view of the adversary, and
use this element to pad the secret. (In fact, Ω(n) secrets can be packed using
this approach.) One can set the parameters so that the error is suﬃciently small,
and apply a union-bound over all un-authorized sets. This leads to a collection of
ramp (or even near-threshold) secret sharing schemes. Furthermore, if the family
of hash functions is linear, the resulting scheme is linear, and if the code and
hash function are computable in linear-time then so is the secret sharing scheme.
Unfortunately, while there are pairwise-independent hash functions that can be
computed by a linear-size arithmetic circuit [3,23,30] we are not aware of any
pairwise-independent hash functions that can be computed by a linear number
of additions and we conjecture that such an object does not exist.
Our Approach. Our approach follows the approach of Cramer et al. [16] except
that instead of applying the hash function we apply to the information vector
r a random linear combination with small, constant-size integer coeﬃcients. We
replace the information-theoretic argument with a linear-algebraic argument and
show that a random linear combination with small-integer coeﬃcients “extracts”
well from any source that is uniformly distributed over a “nice” low-dimensional
subspace. Furthermore, this extraction works in a domain-independent way. In
more detail, ﬁx the generating matrix M of the code and a subset T, and consider
a random “small” integer column vector a ∈Nk. We show that a extracts well in
the following scenario: Fix an arbitrary group G, and consider a random vector
r
R←Gk, then a · r is almost surely uniform over G even conditioned on the
T-restricted codeword (Mr)T . Equivalently, in linear algebraic terms, for every
prime p, the vector a almost surely falls out of the row span of MT modulo p.
The actual statement depends on the magnitude of the integers in M and
here the fact that the code has O(n) additive complexity plays on our side.
Roughly, the analysis, which uses elementary linear algebra and probability,
treats separately each small prime and each prime larger than some p0 = O(n).
This resembles the case analysis of BBSS of [19] with an important distinction:
In [19] the authors design diﬀerent schemes for each case and glue them together
via CRT, and in our case the construction is uniform and the distinction between
diﬀerent primes happens only in the analysis. Indeed, conceptually, our approach
exploits the combinatorial structure induced by graph-based codes and avoids
the relatively complicated number theory that is employed by previous BBSS
schemes.
Deriving Near-Threshold Schemes. The techniques introduced so far yield
ramp secret sharing but they fall short of providing near-threshold BBSS
schemes. (The main loss is due to the analysis over small primes.) To obtain

242
B. Applebaum et al.
the main theorem, we import the coding-theoretic paradigm of code concatena-
tion to the domain of secret sharing. Speciﬁcally, by using a simple combinatorial
object known as sampler graph that satisﬁes some expansion-like properties, we
show that it is possible to generically combine a “fast” ramp secret sharing scheme
over n parties with a “slow” near-threshold scheme over a constant number d of
parties, and derive a new near-threshold scheme that is almost as eﬃcient as the
fast scheme. The eﬃciency degrades by a constant factor that depends on the
complexity of the slow scheme applied to d parties.
In our case, the fast scheme is the ramp secret sharing with O(n) additive
complexity for sharing and recovering from the previous section. The slow scheme
can be taken to be any BBSS near-threshold or even threshold scheme, such as
the scheme of Benaloh and Leichter [7] that is based on monotone formulas
for the threshold function. It should be emphasized that, in our setting, the
concatenation maneuver cannot be applied at the code level since the bottleneck
is not the code (i.e., the correctness properties) but the analysis of the BBSS
that incurs a loss in the privacy threshold.
We note that this ampliﬁcation approach is quite generic and can be applied
to any natural eﬃciency measure as well as to robust secret-sharing schemes.
Concatenation techniques (aka party virtualization) are commonly used in the
context of secure computation and distributed computing [12,20,24,28,29,31]
and also appear in protocols for veriﬁable secret sharing [1]. However, to the
best of our knowledge, this technique was not used so far in the secret-sharing
context. (Though it was implicitly used when concatenated codes were employed,
e.g., by [16] who employed the code of [27].) We believe that secret-sharing
concatenation forms a useful tool in the secret-sharing toolbox that is likely
to lead to other applications and can probably simplify, in retrospect, previous
constructions. As our concrete setting demonstrates, in some scenarios, secret-
sharing concatenation cannot be replaced by concatenation in the code-level.
1.4
A Practical Instantiation
Theorem 1 mainly forms a feasibility result. However, our techniques give rise to
potentially practical ramp secret-sharing schemes. Let us focus for concreteness
on the problem of constructing threshold BLS-signatures [10] instantiated over,
say, the commonly used BLS12-381 curve. In this case the signature is computed
as (H(m))s in a subgroup of the curve, whose order r is a prime which is 255
bits long. The secret is s and secret sharing must be computed modulo r. In
this case, we can focus on the prime p = r of bit length 255 and design an
LSS over the ﬁeld Fp = {0, . . . , p −1}. (The following example works even for
much smaller primes.) Let us assume that there are n ≥1000 parties. Assume
that we have an R-rate erasure code of codeword length n that can recover the
information word given a fraction of τc = (R+εc) un-erased symbols, by making
D ·n additions for decoding. Then, our basic construction (encode + extract via
short inner-product) can be set to have a privacy threshold of τp = (R −εp),
except with statistical failure probability of 2−100, so that recovering a secret
costs (D + (1.1/εp)n additions. (See Theorem 5) For εp = 0.1 this adds an

How to Recover a Secret with O(n) Additions
243
overhead of 11 operations per party. Next, we should decide which code to use.
There are numerous options here and let us review some of them.
Using Capacity-Achieving LDPCs. We can use LDPC codes that almost achieve
the capacity, i.e., τc = (R + εc) where εc can be arbitrarily small (the computa-
tional overhead D grows with 1/εc). Such an ensemble of LDPC codes appears
in [35,36,38]. However, these codes typically achieve a weak correctness prop-
erty: For every authorized set T of density τc, a random code sampled from
the ensemble can decode a T-partial codeword, except with probability which
is inverse polynomial in the codeword length. Note that there are two issues
here: (1) a non-negligible error probability and (2) the existence of “bad sets” for
which decoding fails given a description of the code. The problem can be fully
avoided by using other ensembles that achieve sub-optimal, yet constant, decod-
ing capability and rate.3 Regardless, we argue that even weakly-correct ensem-
bles of secret-sharing schemes may be useful in some scenarios. First, observe
that privacy remains “strong”, that is, our construction ensures that, except for
probability 2−100, the scheme is private for every coalition of density τc. Keeping
this in mind, we can think of the correctness threshold as a way to guarantee
liveliness against random failures. In this case, the weak correctness guarantee
promises that most of the time reconstruction succeeds. Furthermore, we can
share the secret key independently also via some “slow” secret sharing scheme,
e.g., Shamir. Whenever the fast scheme fails (due to a failure of the decoding
algorithm to handle some authorized coalition T), we can use the slow track to
generate a signature via Shamir’s reconstruction.
Using Standard LDPCs. Suppose that the privacy and correctness threshold
can be far apart. A typical example is the case where τp = 1/3 and τc = 2/3
which corresponds to the classical setting in MPC and byzantine agreement in
which the adversary can corrupt up to n/3 of the parties. In this case, we can
use a random (3, 6) LDPC code whose binary parity-check matrix represents a
random graph with left-degree of 3 and right degree of 6. (In fact, it is better
to sub-sample the code from a sub-family of “expurgated codes”). Peeling-based
decoding takes at most 3n additive operations and can correct up to 0.429-
fraction of errors for suﬃciently large lengths n (and is therefore well within
the bounds τp = 1/3 and τc = 2/3). Concretely, for n = 350 (resp., 700 and
1225), decoding fails with probability smaller than 10−6 for erasure fractions
of 0.3 (resp., 0.375 and 0.4), see [40, Figure 3.156]. The overall complexity of
recovering a secret or computing a signature is less than 10n additions (since
εp = R −τp = 1/2 −1/3 = 1/6).
Low Complexity Encoding. There are families of LDPC codes (and variants of
them) that admit fast and even linear-time encoding (see [40]). In fact, in our
context, there is a simple way to generically achieve this additional feature.
Instead of generating a codeword in the Kernel of an LDPC matrix H, sample a
3 In fact there are deterministic families of such codes and we employ them as part of
the proof of Theorem 1.

244
B. Applebaum et al.
truly random vector v and publish its syndrome Hv = z as public information.
The computation is fast (since H is sparse) and we can think about (H, z) as
the speciﬁcation of the code. The peeling-based algorithm works as before except
that in each peeling step when looking at the ith constraint the right-hand side
value is set to be vi, which is whp non-zero. We abstract this idea via the notion
of public shares/header and think of z as public information that is left in a
public repository.
It is important to mention that this approach has a caveat. Whenever a secret
is reconstructed, the public share which potentially contains large ﬁeld elements
should be combined in the computation (instead of only using 0’s for right-hand
side values). This means that a client who asks for a signature has to raise the
hashed document to the power of the typically-large entries of the public share
z. Still, this part of the computation can be pre-computed by the client non-
interactively or while waiting for the servers’ responses. Alternatively, we can
partially delegate the work to the servers by asking each of them to locally raise
the hashed document to the power of (vi : i ∈S) for a constant-size set of
indices that is determined pseudorandomly (e.g., by applying a hash function
on the identity of the server). In a concrete example where |v| = n/2, if we ask
each party to handle, say C = 3 random public entries, then 2n/3 of the parties
are expected to cover all but n/2 · e−4C/3 = n/2 · e−12/3 ≈n/109 of the public
elements, and so the client is left with a small overhead. Of course, the whole
problem can be avoided by using codes with linear additive encoding complexity
(e.g., the cascade LDPC construction of [36]).
The above discussion covers only a few of the possible instantiations and
other choices would likely lead to diﬀerent eﬃciency trade-oﬀs. We, therefore,
present our constructions and proofs in a modular way that generically supports
both weakly-correct ensembles and public shares/headers.
1.5
Related Work
There is a rich literature that tries to improve various eﬃciency measures of
secret sharing schemes and most notably the share size (See Beimel’s survey [5]).
While we are not aware of previous works that studied the additive complexity
of recovering secrets, let us mention some of the most relevant previous works.
Linear-Time Sharing. Druk and Ishai [23] constructed near-threshold linear
secret sharing schemes (LSS) over constant-size ﬁelds in which one can share a
secret by computing O(n) arithmetic operations where multiplication is counted
as a single operation. Cramer et al. [16] extended this result to the case where
the secret is a vector of length Ω(n). It seems likely that these constructions gen-
eralize to larger ﬁelds Fp. However, the recovery and sharing algorithms in this
case use arbitrary ﬁeld elements, which leads to O(n log p) additions. (Also note
that, unlike [16], in our setting of threshold cryptography the secret is naturally
interpreted as a single element in a large ﬁeld or ring.)
BBSS Schemes.
BBSS schemes were ﬁrst introduced by Desmedt and
Frankel [22] and were further developed by [17–19] (see also references therein).

How to Recover a Secret with O(n) Additions
245
Near-threshold BBSS with constant-size shares were recently constructed by [19].
Roughly speaking, they (1) glue together, via CRT, schemes that work individ-
ually for each prime p < n and combine the result with (2) a scheme that works
simultaneously for all large primes. Consequently, part (1) of the construction
induces recovery coeﬃcients whose order is of the order of nth primorial integer
Pn (the product of the ﬁrst n primes). Since the bit-length of Pn is Ω(n log n)
this means that recovering the secret under scheme (1) takes Ω(n2 log n) addi-
tions. Part (2) has also similar complexity since it employs “Reed-Solomon over
the integers” where each entry is of magnitude Ω(n log n), leading to Ω(n2 log n)
addition during reconstruction.
Secret Sharing with Small Recovery Coeﬃcients. Ball et al. [2] studied the related
problem of designing threshold LSS in which the secret can be recovered by a
0–1 linear combination. Note that the existence of such a scheme with constant-
size shares would also lead to recovery by O(n) additions. Unfortunately, Ball et
al. rule out this possibility by showing that if the recovery vector is a 0–1 vector,
the share size must be Ω(n log n) assuming that the ﬁeld is of characteristic
2 or (for general ﬁelds) assuming that the scheme satisﬁes a natural uniform
distribution requirement. Our results bypass this lower-bound by considering
the more general recovery model of O(n)-size additive circuit and by allowing a
gap between the privacy and correctness thresholds.4
On the positive side, it is observed in [2] that a “bit-decomposition” of
Shamir’s scheme gives rise to a secret sharing scheme in which each share con-
tains log |F| ﬁeld elements for |F| > n. Reconstruction can be applied by taking
a 0–1 linear combination of the shares, and so the number of additions over F is
Ω(n log |F|) for a linear threshold of Θ(n). From our perspective, this variant has
no advantage over “standard” Shamir as the total number of additions remains
the same, i.e., Ω(n log |F|).
As already mentioned, for the motivating application in [2] (i.e., slow-noise-
growth in LWE-based construction), the binary-reconstruction requirement can
be typically relaxed to the more liberal requirement of an addition-only recon-
struction algorithm with low (e.g., log n) depth. From this point of view, our
solutions are valuable also in the LWE setting.
Recovering a Secret “in the Exponent”, and the Cost of Computing the Interpola-
tion Coeﬃcients. Although the issue we discuss here is general, we focus on the
motivating example from the introduction in which a secret key s ∈Zp is being
shared among n servers, and a client broadcasts M ∈G and wishes to compute
the value M s. The textbook solution, based on Shamir’s secret sharing, is to ask
each server respond with M si, and, assuming that the client receives the shares
of a suﬃciently large coalition T of size at least τcn recover the secret in the
exponent. This process consists of two steps:
1. Computing over Zp the Lagrange coeﬃcients (αi)i∈T such that s = 
i αisi.
2. Computing  M αisi where the product is over G.
4 We do not know whether both relaxations are needed.

246
B. Applebaum et al.
The ﬁrst stage is computed over Zp and can be done naively by computing
O(n2) additions and multiplications. It can also be implemented using FFT, as
suggested in [11], and making only O(n log2(n)) additions and multiplications
(and as shown in [44], this technique provides better performance, roughly from
n ≈256). The second stage consists of O(n log p) multiplications over the cryp-
tographic group G which are typically more expensive than modular operations.
To capture the distinction between the above 2 steps, one could partition
the cost of the secret-sharing recovery algorithm Rec(T, (si)i∈T ∪{n+1}) into two
parts: (1) Given T the cost of generating an Addition-Only circuit RecT for
recovering the secret given T-shares; and (2) The number of additions that RecT
performs. Our deﬁnitional framework measures the total number of additions
that are performed in both steps, and, even under this strict measure of com-
plexity, our constructions achieve linear complexity. This is in contrast to Shamir,
and all other existing schemes that achieve super-linear complexity even if we
count only the complexity of Step (2).
Let us emphasize that the gain is even more signiﬁcant when working over
groups of unknown order. Speciﬁcally, the cost of computing Lagrange coeﬃ-
cients is extremely prohibitive for the case of RSA-based threshold cryptography,
such as threshold RSA signatures as suggested in [42]. Indeed, since the order
of the group Z∗
N is unknown, the interpolation coeﬃcients must be computed
over the integers. This leads to very large coeﬃcients as they are the result of
multiplying O(n) integers. Subsequently, raising values to the power of these
exponents modulo N can be quite ineﬃcient.
An Alternative Interactive Solution. Deviating from the textbook solution, one
can get a linear complexity via the following alternative route. The client can
ask who is willing to participate in the recovery. Then, each available party
broadcasts her name. Finally, once the coalition is known the coeﬃcients are
determined and each party can locally raise her share to the power of αi and
send the result to the client that just needs to multiply everything. This solution
has two drawbacks: It adds interaction and it is not resilient to malicious parties
or to simple failures. In contrast, our solution is non-interactive and can be easily
adapted to malicious settings by assuming that the original shares are committed
and that each “signature” share consists of a zero-knowledge proof of consistency.
In the discrete-log setting, this can be done relatively cheaply.
2
Preliminaries
By default, all logarithms are taken to base 2. We let h2(·) denote the binary
entropy function, that maps a real number α ∈(0, 1) to h2(α) = −α log α −(1 −
α) log(1 −α) and is set to zero for α ∈{0, 1}. We use the following standard
estimate for the binomial coeﬃcients
 n
αn

≤2h2(α)n.
(1)

How to Recover a Secret with O(n) Additions
247
For a matrix M we let Mi and M i denote the ith row and ith column of M,
respectively. All vectors are column vectors by default. For two random variables
X and Y , we say that X ≡Y if they are identically distributed.
2.1
Secret Sharing: Deﬁnitions
We begin by recalling the notion of a partial access structures, that deﬁnes autho-
rized and unauthorized sets while allowing a gap between them. A ramp access
structures is a partial access structures with two thresholds, where all sets smaller
than the ﬁrst threshold are unauthorized and all sets larger than the second
threshold are authorized.
Deﬁnition 1 (partial access structure and ramp access structure). A
partial access structure over n parties is a pair Γ = (Γ0, Γ1) where Γ0, Γ1 ⊆2[n]
are non-empty collections of sets such that B ̸⊆A for every A ∈Γ0, B ∈Γ1.
Sets in Γ1 are called authorized, and sets in Γ0 are called unauthorized.
For 0 < τp < τc ≤1, the (τp, τc)-ramp access structure over n parties Γ =
(Γ0, Γ1) is deﬁned by letting Γ0 be the collection of all subsets of size at most τpn
and letting Γ1 be the collection of all subsets of size at least τcn.
We move on and deﬁne the semantics of secret-sharing schemes. Our def-
inition is equivalent to standard deﬁnitions (e.g., [6,15]) though our syntax is
slightly diﬀerent. Notably, the dealing function, which distributes the shares,
(s1, . . . , sn), of the secret s, is also allowed to generate an additional “public”
share, sn+1 that is available to all parties.
Deﬁnition 2 (Secret-sharing schemes). A pair of deterministic algorithms,
(Deal, Rec) is a secret-sharing scheme that realizes a (possibly partial) access
structure Γ = (Γ0, Γ1) with domain of secrets S, domain of random strings R,
and ﬁnite domains of shares S1, . . . , Sn and Sn+1 (the latter domain is for public
shares) if the following hold:
– (Correctness): For any authorized set T ∈Γ1 and every secret s ∈S, the
following T-correctness property holds:
Pr[Rec(T, (si)i∈T ∪{n+1}) ̸= s] = 0,
where (s1, . . . , sn, sn+1)
R←Deal(s). (The latter notation means that r is
selected uniformly at random from R, and (s1, . . . , sn, sn+1) = Deal(s; r).)
– (Privacy): For any unauthorized set T ∈Γ0 and every secret s ∈S, the
following T-privacy property holds:
(si)i∈T ∪{n+1} ≡(s′
i)i∈T ∪{n+1}
where (s1, . . . , sn, sn+1)
R←Deal(s) is a random s-sharing, and the vector
(s′
1, . . . , s′
n, s′
n+1)
R
←Deal(0) is a random 0-sharing for some ﬁxed canonical
element 0 in S.
Note that privacy is a property of the sharing algorithm Deal.

248
B. Applebaum et al.
Ensembles of Secret Sharing. Let Γ = {Γn}n∈N be a sequence of access structures
where Γn is an n-party (possibly partial) access structure. A triple of eﬃcient
algorithms (Setup, Deal, Rec) is a δ-ensemble of Γ secret sharing schemes if for
every n, except with probability 1 −δ(n) over the choice of pp
R
←Setup(1n), the
n-party scheme (Dealpp, Recpp) realizes Γn. We highlight the following properties
of this deﬁnition.
– We refer to δ as the failure or error probability of the ensemble and take it
by default to be negligible in n.
– We can use a relaxed version of ε-weakly-correct δ-private ensemble that
requires strong privacy and weak correctness. Here strong privacy means that
Pr
pp
R
←Setup(1n)
[∀unauthorized T, (Dealpp, Recpp) is T-private] ≥1 −δ(n),
and weak correctness means that for every n and every authorized set T
Pr
pp
R
←Setup(1n)
[(Dealpp, Recpp) is T-correct] ≥1 −ε(n).
By default, we set δ to be negligible in n and set ε to some, possibly non-
negligible function, that converges to 0.
– One can deﬁne weakly-private ensembles analogously though we will not use
this variant in the paper. That is, in this paper even for a ε weakly-correct
ensemble, except with probability δ over the choice of the public parameters,
privacy holds over all unauthorized sets.
All the following variants of secret sharing (e.g., additive-only secret-sharing) can
be naturally generalized to the setting of secret sharing collections. Whenever
possible, we keep this extension implicit.
Remark 1 (Boosting weakly-correct ensembles). It is possible to reduce the cor-
rectness error ε of any weakly-correct ensemble to a negligible error via standard
repetition (e.g., exponential in n) by independently sampling k = O(n/ log(ε))
public parameters pp1, . . . , ppk and sharing the secret k times independently
with respect to each public parameter ppi. As long as ε is polynomially-bounded
away from 1, i.e., ε < 1 −1/poly(n), the overhead k is polynomial and so the
privacy error remains negligible. Recovery can be achieved by applying the orig-
inal recovery algorithm to each part until we ﬁnd an instance for which recovery
succeeds.5 This increases the sharing complexity and share size by a factor of k,
however we can keep the expected running time of recovery essentially unchanged
by applying the original recovery algorithm on the ith copy for a randomly cho-
sen i ∈[k] and re-try if recovery fails.
5 Here we assume that given a pp, T and the shares of a T-subset, one can eﬃciently
check whether the reconstruction succeeds or fail. This assumption always hold for
linear schemes (since detecting a failure boils down to checking whether a system of
equation is solvable) which are the main focus of this paper. It can also be enforced for
general schemes with a relatively minor cost via standard authentication techniques.

How to Recover a Secret with O(n) Additions
249
Remark 2 (deterministic constructions, public parameters and public shares).
When the Setup algorithm is deterministic, the ensemble is referred to simply
as a secret-sharing scheme. We note that one can always turn an ensemble to a
deterministic construction (with statistical error) by pushing the public parame-
ters as part of the public share. However, there is a conceptual diﬀerence between
the public parameters and public share since the former can be sampled once
and for all (and re-used over repeated applications) whereas the latter should be
freshly sampled together with secret.
2.2
Additive-Only Algorithms and BBSS
An additive algorithm A is an algorithm that receives two types of inputs, arith-
metic data inputs x = (x1, . . . , xk) and some binary meta-data information
T = (T1, . . . , Tm). The algorithm A manipulates the arithmetic data by making
queries to an addition/subtraction oracle that takes two arithmetic elements and
returns their sum/diﬀerence. The binary meta-information can be manipulated
arbitrarily. The algorithm generates arithmetic outputs y = (y1, . . . , yℓ). In prin-
ciple, we can allow also binary outputs though we will not need this extension in
this paper. The additive complexity of A is the maximal number of additions and
subtractions that it performs.6 For simplicity, we will ignore the complexity of
non-arithmetic operations. Indeed, in all our constructions, the arithmetic com-
plexity dominates the binary complexity. For any ﬁxing T of the binary inputs
and any ﬁxing of an Abelian group G, the algorithm AG
T (x) = AG(T, x) deﬁnes
a mapping from x ∈Gk to y ∈Gℓ. This mapping can be always described by an
ℓ×k integer matrix M such that, for every i ∈[m], it holds that yi = k
j=1 Mi,jxj
where for a positive integer k (resp., negative integer) and group element g ∈G
we write k · g for k-iterated additions (resp., subtractions) of g and when k = 0
we let k · g be the neutral element of G which will be denoted by 0.
Additive-Only Secret Sharing: Syntax. We say that an (ensemble of) secret-
sharing schemes is Additive-Only if both the distribution and recovery algo-
rithms are additive-only algorithms. For the recovery algorithm Rec the arith-
metic inputs are the shares and the binary inputs are the public parameters pp
and the set of parties T that will be represented by an n-bit vector. For the dis-
tribution algorithm Deal, the vector of random elements r = (r1, . . . , rk) and the
secret s are treated as arithmetic inputs and the public-parameters pp are treated
as binary inputs. As a result, the distribution algorithm can be always repre-
sented by an integer distribution matrix M whose rows are labeled by indices in
[n] such that the rows that are labeled by i correspond to the computation of
the shares of the ith party. That is, for secret s and randomness r = (r1, . . . , rk),
6 One can always reduce the number of subtractions to 1 at the expense of doubling the
number of addition by maintaining for each intermediate arithmetic value v a pair of
values a, b such that v = a−b and postpone the actual subtraction to the end. See [43,
proof of Thm 2.11] for a similar statement for the case of division/multiplication
operations.

250
B. Applebaum et al.
the share that the ith party gets is all the entries Mj · ( s
r ) for which the row j
is labeled by i. Throughout the paper, we will always assume that each party
gets a single group element as a share and so we may assume that the ith share
is computed by the ith row of M. We assume that the public share consists of
ℓgroup elements and is computed by the last ℓrows of M so the distribution
matrix is always an (n + ℓ) × (1 + k) integer matrix.
Additive-Only Secret Sharing: Semantics. We say that an additive-only secret-
sharing scheme (AOS) (Deal, Rec) realizes an access structure Γ over an Abelian
group G if (DealG, RecG) realizes Γ. We say that (Deal, Rec) is a black-box secret-
sharing (BBSS) for Γ if (DealG, RecG) realizes Γ for every Abelian group G. We
say that an additive-only distribution algorithm Deal realizes Γ over G if there
exists an additive-only reconstruction algorithm Rec such that (Deal, Rec) realize
Γ over G. Similarly, we say that Deal is a BBSS for Γ if there exists an additive-
only reconstruction algorithm Rec such that (Deal, Rec) form a BBSS for Γ.
The following proposition follows from pioneering works about linear secret
sharing and black-box secret sharing [4,17,32] and relates the correctness and
privacy properties of an AOS to the properties of the distribution algorithm, and,
more speciﬁcally, to the linear-algebraic properties of the distribution matrix M.
Proposition 1 (implicit in [4,17,32]). An additive distribution algorithm Deal
with an (n + ℓ) × k integer distribution matrix M realizes an access structure Γ
over Fp for a prime p if and only if:
– (correctness) For every authorized set T ⊂[n], the unit vector e1 = (10n−1)
is spanned, modulo p, by the rows of matrix MT that contain all the rows
Mi, i ∈[T] and all the “public-share” rows (Mn+1, . . . , Mℓ).
– (privacy) For every unauthorized set T ⊂[n], the unit vector e1 = (10n−1) is
not spanned, modulo p, by the rows of matrix MT that contains all the rows
Mi, i ∈T and all the “public-share” rows (Mn+1, . . . , Mℓ). Equivalently, there
exists a sweeping (column) vector vT ∈Nn such that MT vT = 0 (mod p) but
⟨e1, vT ⟩̸= 0 (mod p).
Moreover, Deal is a BBSS for Γ if the above holds for every prime p.
The ﬁrst part follows from the works of Karchmer and Wigderson [32] and
Beimel [4] about the relation between linear secret sharing schemes over ﬁnite
ﬁelds and span programs. The “Moreover” part implicitly follows from the work
of Cramer and Fehr [17], and speciﬁcally, from Lemma 1 that asserts that an
integer system over the integers is solvable if and only if it is solvable over any
prime. (Indeed both the privacy and correctness conditions boils down to the
solvability of an integer linear system).
2.3
Additive-Only Erasure Codes
A pair of deterministic encoder and decoder algorithms (Enc, Dec) forms an
(n, k) erasure code over alphabet Σ with correctness capability of η erasures

How to Recover a Secret with O(n) Additions
251
if Enc maps an information word in Σk to a codeword in Σn, and for every
(1 −η)n-subset T, and every information word x ∈Σk and T-partial codeword
yT = (Enc(x)i)i∈T the decoder Dec(T, yT ) returns x. We consider a non-standard
notion of codes with header in which Enc(x) also outputs a public header z ∈Σm
that is always fully available to the decoder and is not subject to erasures.
(Jumping ahead public headers correspond to public shares.) If one stores the
entire information word in the public header then erasures are trivial to correct.
To avoid such trivialities, we require that the length of the information word, k,
will be larger than the length m of the header. Furthermore, letting μ := m/n
be the header rate, we deﬁne the rate R of the scheme to be k
n −μ = k−m
n
and
require a positive rate R. This deﬁnition matches the standard deﬁnition of rate
when there is no public header (i.e., m, μ = 0).
We say that (Enc, Dec) are additive-only erasure codes if the algorithms are
additive-only algorithms, i.e., the information word, codeword and public header
are all treated as vectors of arithmetic elements over a general abelian group G
and the set T is treated as a binary input. We require that correctness holds
over any instantiation of an abelian group G.
Ensembles of erasure codes are deﬁned in the natural way. A tuple C =
(CG, Enc, Dec) is a δ-ensemble of additive erasure codes that corrects up to η
erasures with a rate of R and public-information rate μ if, except with probability
1−δ over the choice of cp
R←CG(1n), it holds that (Enccp, Deccp) form an additive
erasure-code with k = (R + μ)n long information word, n-long codewords, and
μn-long public header, that corrects up to η erasures. The ensemble is δ-weakly
correct if for every n and (1 −η)n-subset T, except with probability 1 −δ over
cp
R←CG(1n), it holds that for every information word x ∈Σk and codeword
(y, z) = (Enc(x)) the decoder Dec(T, (yi)i∈T , z) returns x.
3
The Basic Construction
In the basic construction, the vector of shares is sampled as a random infor-
mation word r, and the ith party receives the ith entry of the corresponding
codeword. In addition, we sample a random vector a of coeﬃcients that is as
long as the information word. The public information includes the public part of
the codeword (if it exists), the vector a, and the value z0 = s + 
i airi, where s
is the secret that is shared. If the information word r is reconstructed, then the
secret s can be recovered from z0. We also show below that an unauthorized set
learns no information about the secret.
Construction 2 (from additive codes to AOS). Let C = (CG, Enc, Dec) be
a (possibly weak) δ-ensemble of additive erasure codes that corrects a fraction of
1 −τc erasures with a rate of R and public-information rate μ. For a parameter
c ∈N, deﬁne the AOS Sharing = (Setup, Deal, Rec) as follows:
1. Setup(1n): Sample a code parameters via cp
R←CG(1n) and sample an integer
vector a
R←{0, . . . , c −1}(R+μ)n, output pp = (1n, cp, a).

252
B. Applebaum et al.
2. Dealpp(s): Sample a random information codeword y ∈Gn and a (possibly
empty) public header z1 ∈Gμn by computing (y, z1) = Enccp(r) where r
R←
G(R+μ)n is a random information word. Set yi to the share of the ith party,
compute z0 = s + 
i airi, and set the public share z = (z0, z1).
3. Recpp(T, z, yT ): For a set T of size at most τcn, recover the information word
r ∈Gn via the decoding-under-erasure algorithm Deccp(z1, T, yT ), and output
s = z0 −
i airi.
Let us demonstrate the construction using an example: Suppose that we wish to
provide n shares, and use a code that has a public header of length n/3. Then,
using the notation of Sect. 2.3 we have that the length of the information word
is k = n, the header is of length m = n/3, the header rate is μ = 1/3, and the
rate is R = k/n−μ = 2/3. The construction chooses in the setup phase a vector
a of (R +μ)n = n coeﬃcients. In the deal phase, it chooses a random vector r of
length (R+μ)n = n, sets y = r and sets the public header z1 of length n/3 to be
the result of multiplying the generating matrix of the code by r. The recovery
phase uses the code to recover r and output s = z0 −n
i=1 airi.
Analysis. The correctness of the scheme (over any group) follows trivially from
the correctness of the erasure code. Also, if the code ensemble is only weakly-
correct then so is the resulting secret-sharing ensemble. The additive complexity
of sharing/recovering is exactly the complexity of encoding/decoding plus the
complexity of recovering the secret from z0, which is (R + μ)n⌈log(c −1)⌉+
(R + μ)n ≤n⌈log(c −1)⌉+ n. (The inequality holds since, by assumption,
R+μ ≤1.) The parallel additive complexity is log log c+log n+log(R+μ)+1 ≤
log log c + log n + 1. The next sub-sections (Sects. 3.1 and 3.2) will be devoted to
the privacy analysis and will focus on the case where the scheme is applied over
Fp for a ﬁxed prime.
3.1
Privacy Lemmas
To analyze the privacy of the scheme, we restrict our attention to a ﬁxed prime
and make use of the following simple claims.
Claim 3 (privacy from linear independence). Fix the code parameters cp,
a prime p and a set T ⊂[n]. Let G denote the generating matrix of the code Enccp
and let GT denote the sub-matrix of G that is obtained by keeping the rows that
are indexed by the set T and the “public” part. Then, the secret-sharing scheme
from Construction 2 indexed by pp = (1n, cp, a) is T-private over Fp if and only
if the vector a is not in the row-span of GT over Fp.
Proof. Let G be the (n + μn) × (Rn + μn) generating matrix of the code Enccp
whose last μn rows correspond to the public header of the encoding. The distri-
bution matrix M of the scheme is the ((1 + μ)n + 1) × (1 + (R + μ)n) integer
matrix M =

0(1+μ)n G
1
a

. Let MT denote the sub-matrix of M that contains

How to Recover a Secret with O(n) Additions
253
the rows that are indexed by T and the last μn + 1 rows (that corresponds to
the public share). By Proposition 1, privacy for a set T over Fp is equivalent to
the requirement that MT does not span the vector e1 over Fp which happens, in
our case, if and only if GT does not span the vector a.
⊓⊔
The following claim shows that a random small-integer vector is likely to fall
out of the span of a degenerate matrix.
Claim 4. Let M be an k × ℓinteger matrix with k < ℓ, let p be a prime and
c be a positive integer. Then the probability that a randomly chosen vector a ∈
{0, . . . , c −1}ℓis in the row-span of M computed modulo p, is at most αℓ−k
c,p =
2−(log(1/αc,p))(ℓ−k) where αc,p equals to 1/c if c ≤p and to ⌈c/p⌉/c otherwise.
Note that αc,p < 1/c + 1/p for every c and p.
Proof. Denote the row span (modulo p) of M by V . The matrix M has k′ ≤k
independent columns M i1, . . . , M ik′ over Fp. Let I = {i1, . . . , ik′} ⊂[ℓ] denote
the set of positions of these columns. Then, for every j /∈I, we can write the jth
column M j as M Iαj for some coeﬃcient (row) vector αj ∈Fk′
p , and therefore,
every vector v ∈V is fully determined by its values over the I-coordinates, i.e.,
vj = αj · vI for every index j /∈I. Hence, we can write Pra[a ∈V ] as

v∈V
Pr
a [a = v] =

v∈V
⎛
⎝Pr
a [aI = vI]
	
j /∈I
Pr[aj = αj · vI]
⎞
⎠
≤

v∈V
⎛
⎝Pr
a [aI = vI]
	
j /∈I
αc,p
⎞
⎠≤α(ℓ−|I|)
c,p
≤2−(log 1/αc,p)(ℓ−k),
where the ﬁrst equality is due to the independence of the entries of a, and
the second inequality holds since, for each j and each b ∈{0, . . . , p −1} the
probability that aj = b (mod p) is at most αc,p. The claim follows.
⊓⊔
By combining the above claims, we derive the following lemma.
Lemma 1 (privacy for a ﬁxed prime). For every code parameter cp, param-
eter c ∈N, and prime p the following holds. For every set T ⊂[n] of size t < Rn,
the secret-sharing scheme from Construction 2 with parameters pp = (1n, cp, a)
is T-private over Fp with probability of 2−(log α−1
c,p)(Rn−t) = (αc,p)Rn−t over
the choice of a. Furthermore, for τp that satisﬁes h2(τp) < (R −τp) log α−1
c,p,
the scheme is τp-private over Fp except with exponentially small probability of
2n(h2(τp)−(R−τp) log α−1
c,p) = 2−Ω(n) over the choice of a.
Proof. Fix the code parameters cp, a prime p and a set T ⊂[n], and let G
denote the generating matrix of the code Enccp, and GT denote the sub-matrix
of G that is obtained by keeping the rows that are indexed by the set T and the
“public” part (as in Claim 3).
The ﬁrst part follows from Claims 4 and 3 by recalling that GT is a (t +
μn) × (Rn + μn) matrix for (t + μn) < (Rn + μn), and the “furthermore” part

254
B. Applebaum et al.
follows by a union-bound over all τpn-size subsets of n and by using the standard
inequality
 n
τpn

≤2nh2(τp).
⊓⊔
3.2
Immediate Corollaries
Let us record two useful corollaries.
Theorem 5 (AOS with optimal privacy for ﬁxed large primes). For
every ε > 0, rate R > 0 and error parameter β > 0, take c to be a constant of bit
length at least (h2(τp) + β)/(R −τp). Then, Construction 2 instantiated with the
constant c and an δ-ensemble (resp., weak δ-ensemble) of R-rate (1−τc)-erasure
codes yields an AOS-ensemble with the following properties:
– (Complexity) The additive complexity (resp., parallel additive complexity)
of sharing/recovering is exactly the complexity of encoding/decoding plus
n(⌈log(c −1)⌉+ 1) (resp., log log c + log n + 1).
– (Correctness) Except with probability δ over the choice of the code parameters
cp and for every choice of a, the scheme is τc-correct for every prime (resp.,
weakly τc-correct if the coding ensemble is weakly correct).
– (Privacy) For every cp ∈Setup(1n) and every prime p ≥c, except with
probability 2−βn over the choice of a, the algorithm Deal(1n,cp,a) is (τp =
R −ε)-private.
Proof. The choice of c guarantees that β < log c(R −τp) −h2(τp). The theorem
now follows from Lemma 1 by recalling that αc,p = 1/c when p ≥c.
⊓⊔
Note that the privacy threshold is almost optimal: it can be arbitrarily close to R
from below. Indeed, if the underlying code is near-optimal, i.e., decoding works
even when we have only τc = (R+ε)n non-erased symbols for an arbitrarily small
constant ε (given to the code-generation algorithm), we get a near-threshold
AOS whose privacy-to-correctness gap, τc −τp, is 2ε. Furthermore, the concrete
constants are relatively small! Assuming that the failure probability should be
at most 2−n (which makes sense if there are at least 100 parties), we can take
β = 1 and use a constant c of bit length at most 2(R −τp)−1. If the number of
parties is n ≥1000, then β can be taken to be 0.1 and the complexity is at most
1.1(R −τp)−1.
If we do not care about the optimality of the privacy threshold, we can derive
a scheme that works for every ﬁxed prime (including small primes such as p = 2)
with high probability.
Theorem 6 (AOS for small primes). For every rate R > 0 there exists small
constants τp, β such that Construction 2 instantiated with any constant c ≥2
and δ-ensemble (resp., weak δ-ensemble) of R-rate (1 −τc)-erasure codes yields
an AOS-ensemble with the following properties:
– Correctness and complexity as in Theorem 5.
– (Privacy) For every cp ∈Setup(1n) and every prime p ≥2, except with
probability 2−βn over the choice of a, the algorithm Deal(1n,cp,a) is τp-private.
Consequently, the ensemble is τp-private simultaneously for all primes smaller
than, say, 2βn/2, except with probability 2−βn/2.

How to Recover a Secret with O(n) Additions
255
Proof. First, observe that for every prime p and constant c ≥2 it holds that
αc,p < 5/6. Indeed, if c = 2, it holds that α2,p = 1/p ≤1/2 for every prime p ≥2;
and if c ≥3, we have αc,p < 1/p + 1/c ≤1/2 + 1/3 = 5/6 for every prime p ≥2.
Next, take τp to be a suﬃciently small constant for which (R−τp) log(6/5)−h2(τp)
is positive and take β < (R −τp) log(6/5) −h2(τp). This guarantees that β <
((R −τp) log α−1
c,p −h2(τp)) and the main part of the theorem now follows from
Lemma 1. The “Consequently” part follows by applying a union bound over all
primes of size at most 2βn/2.
⊓⊔
4
Analyzing the Basic Construction over All Primes
Simultaneously
The above theorems are not suﬃciently strong to handle inﬁnitely many primes
simultaneously. For this purpose, we will have to apply a more reﬁned argument
that exploits the fact that our sharing algorithm makes a linear number of addi-
tions. Let us start with the following claim that will replace Claim 4. In the
following, we say that an integer vector v ∈Nℓhas an additive complexity of e if
the mapping that takes an integer vector x ∈Nℓto ⟨v, x⟩can be computed by
applying at most e additions/subtractions.
Claim 7. Let M be an k × ℓinteger matrix where k < ℓand assume that each
row of M has an additive complexity of e.7 Let b be an integer and c be a prime
of size at least 2b. Then, except with failure probability bk−ℓ(2e + 1)k over the
choice of a ∈{0, . . . , c −1}ℓ,
∃integer vector v ∈[±b]ℓs.t.
Mv = 0k
and
⟨v, a⟩̸= 0,
(2)
where arithmetic is over the integers. Consequently, whenever (2) happens, the
vector a is not in the row span of M modulo p for every prime p > 2(c −1)bℓ.
Proof. Let N := bℓ−k/(2e + 1)k and let V denote the set of integer vectors
0 ̸= v ∈[±b]ℓfor which the equality Mv = 0k holds over the integers. We begin
by showing that V is of size at least N −1. To see this, consider the mapping ρ
that takes v ∈[1..b]ℓand sends it to Mv (computed over the integers). Observe
that the i-th entry of Mv is an integer in the range [−be, .., be] and therefore the
image of ρ is of size at most (2be + 1)k < bk(2e + 1)k. Since the domain of ρ is of
size bℓ, by the pigeonhole principle, there exist a set of at least N = bℓ−k/(2e+1)k
distinct input vectors v0, . . . , vN−1 that are all mapped to the same output. By
the linearity of ρ, the N −1 vectors {vi −v0|1 ≤i ≤N −1} are all non-zero
vectors that are mapped by ρ to zero.
Let us further ﬁlter the set V ⊂[1 −b, b −1]ℓby choosing a maximal subset
V ′ ⊂V of vectors that are linearly independent over Fc. Denote the size of V ′ by
N ′. Observe that the mod-c projected set of vectors {v mod c : v ∈V } contains
7 The hypothesis can be relaxed so that e only upper-bounds the average additive
complexity of the rows in M.

256
B. Applebaum et al.
N ′ distinct non-zero vectors since V ⊂[1 −b, b −1]ℓand since the length of
the interval, [1 −b, b −1], is smaller than 2b < c. Therefore, cN′ −1 ≥|V | and
N ′ ≥logc(|V | + 1) ≥logc(N).
To complete the main argument, it suﬃces to show that, except with prob-
ability c−N′ ≤1/N, there exists a vector v ∈V ′ for which ⟨v, a⟩̸= 0 (mod c).
To see this, consider the random variables
(⟨v, a⟩
(mod c))v∈V ′
induced by the choice of a ∈{0, . . . , c −1}n = Fℓ
c. These random variables are
mutually independent (since the vectors in V ′ are linearly independent) and each
of them is uniformly distributed over Fc. Therefore, the probability that all of
them simultaneously take the value zero is c−N′ ≤1/N as promised.
Finally, the “consequently” part follows, by noting that the integer ⟨v, a⟩is in
the interval [±(c−1)bℓ] and so ⟨v, a⟩(mod p) ̸= 0 for every prime p > 2(c−1)bℓ.
Since Mv = 0k (mod p), v certiﬁes that the vector a is not in the row-span of
M over Fp.
⊓⊔
In order to employ Claim 7, we will need a good upper-bound e on the
complexity of each row of the generating matrix of the underlying erasure code.
Let us refer to such a code as e-bounded. We note that every code whose encoding
can be computed by a linear number of additions can be turned into an O(1)-
bounded code.
Claim 8. There exists an eﬃcient transformation that takes a constant α ∈
[0, 1] and an additive erasure code C = (CG, Enc, Dec) whose additive complexity
is An and outputs an (A/α)-bounded additive erasure code C′ = (CG, Enc′, Dec′)
whose parameters almost match the ones of C. Speciﬁcally, C′ has an additive
complexity of An, public rate of at least μ−α, rate of R−α and it can correct up
to η−α erasures where μ, R and η are the public rate, rate and erasure correction
capability of C. Furthermore, if C is a (possibly weak) δ-ensemble then so is C′.
Proof. Fix some cp ∈CG(1n) and observe that the average complexity of a row
in the generating matrix of Enccp is at most
An
(1+μ)n < A. Let us remove an
α-fraction of the outputs whose complexity is the largest and let Enc′
cp denote
the resulting code. By Markov’s inequality the resulting code is (A/α)-bounded.
Decoding can be performed by invoking Deccp while treating the removed entries
as additional erasures. The other properties of the code can be easily veriﬁed. ⊓⊔
Theorem 9 (AOS for all large primes).
For every constants R, μ > 0,
e ∈N, τp ∈(0, R), error parameter β > 0, and b ∈N whose bit-length log b is at
least (β+h2(τp)+(log(e)+2)(μ+τp))/(R−τp) the following holds. Construction 2
instantiated with any prime c ≥2b and δ-ensemble (resp., weak δ-ensemble)
e-bounded (1 −τc)-erasure codes with rate R and public rate μ yields an AOS-
ensemble with the following properties:
– Correctness and eﬃciency as in Theorem 5.

How to Recover a Secret with O(n) Additions
257
– (Privacy) For every cp ∈Setup(1n), except with probability 2−βn over the
choice of a, the algorithm Deal(1n,cp,a) is simultaneously τp-private for all
primes p larger than c2n (or even p ≥2cb(μ + R)n).
Proof. Fix some prime c > 2b. Fix n and code parameters cp ∈Setup(1n) and
let G denote the (n + μn) × (Rn + μn) generating matrix of the code Enccp
whose last μn rows correspond to the public header of the encoding. For a set
T of size τp, let GT denote the sub-matrix of G that is obtained by keeping the
rows that are indexed by the set T and the “public” part (as in Claim 3). By
Claim 3, it suﬃces to show that, except with probability 2−βn, the event (2)
happens for GT for every set T of size τpn. Recall that GT has k = (μ + τp)n
rows and ℓ= (R + μ)n columns and each of its rows has an additive complexity
of e. Hence, by Claim 7, the event (2) happens for any ﬁxed T, with probability
at most bk−ℓ(2e + 1)k ≤2−ηn where
η ≥(R −τp)(log b) −(log(e) + 2)(μ + τp).
When the bit length of b is larger than (β +h2(τ)+(log(e)+2)(μ+τp))/(R−τp),
we get that η > β+h2(τ), which, by a union bound over all T’s, yields the result.
⊓⊔
For example, for every ﬁxing of constants R > 0, e ∈N, we can take τp ∈(0, R)
to be arbitrarily close to R (up to any small constant), and get an arbitrary
exponential small error probability for all primes larger than c2n by taking a
suﬃciently large constant c. Alternatively, when the code has no public infor-
mation (μ = 0), for every ﬁxed odd prime c, there exist some (small) constants
τp ∈(0, R), β > 0 for which the construction achieves τp-privacy except with
exponentially small probability of 2−βn simultaneously for all primes larger than
c2n.
In any case, by combining the above theorem with Theorem 6 and Proposi-
tion 1, we derive the following theorem.
Theorem 10 (AOS for all primes). For every rate R > 0 there exists con-
stants τp, β and c such that Construction 2 instantiated with c and δ-ensemble
(resp., weak δ-ensemble) of R-rate (1−τc)-erasure codes yields an AOS-ensemble
with the following properties:
– Correctness and complexity as in Theorem 5.
– (Privacy) For every cp ∈Setup(1n) and every prime p ≥2, except with
probability 2−βn over the choice of a, the algorithm Deal(1n,cp,a) is τp-private
simultaneously for all primes.
There exists a (deterministic) construction of AOS erasure codes with linear
complexity constant rate and constant erasure capability (e.g., by using the
Capalbo et al. [13] unbalanced expanders in the cascade construction of Luby et
al. [35]). Thus, by Proposition 1, we derive the following corollary.

258
B. Applebaum et al.
Corollary 1. For some constants 0 < τp < τc < 1 there exists an (τp, τc)-ramp
ensemble of BBSS scheme with constant-size shares, and where the recovery and
sharing algorithms make only O(n) additions, and thee setup algorithm errs with
probability 2−Ω(n). Furthermore, the public share is a single ﬁeld element and so
it can be completely removed (by appending it to each party’s share).
Remark 3 (compressing the ensemble parameters).
Since the underlying code
is computed the public parameters of the secret sharing ensemble contain only
the vector a whose length is O(n) bits. Following [16,34] this public information
can be completely eliminated via information dispersal. Speciﬁcally, encode the
vector a into a vector A ∈{0, 1}O(n) using some AOS-ensemble of erasure codes
with linear complexity and hand Ai to the ith party. The share size remains con-
stant and the additive complexity of sharing and recovering remains unchanged.
Of course, this introduces a negligible error probability in the recovery algorithm
and a negligible deviation in the privacy.
5
Deriving Near-Threshold Schemes
We will need the following proposition about the existence of bipartite sampler
graphs.
Proposition 2 (eﬃcient samplers [26,33]). For every positive constants ε >
0, δ > 0, there exists a constant d = O(1/(ε2δ)) and a poly(n, 1/ε, 1/δ)-time
algorithm that on input 1n outputs an bipartite graph G = ((L, R), E) with the
the following properties:
1. |L| = |R| = n and the right degree of G is d.
2. For every S ⊂L, it holds that for at least 1−δ fraction of the vertices r ∈R,
it holds that

dS(r)
d
−|S|
n
 ≤ε,
where dS(r) is the number of vertices in S that are connected to r.
A graph that satisﬁes the above properties is called an (n, d, ε, δ)-sampler.
The following lemma takes an outer “fast” ramp scheme with “bad threshold”
over n parties and near-threshold “slow” scheme over a constant d = O(1) num-
ber of parties, and generates a new near-optimal scheme over n parties whose
complexity (sharing, reconstruction and share size) are inherited from the fast
scheme up to a constant multiplicative overhead that depends on d.
Lemma 2. For every ε, δ, d and n and (n, d, ε, δ)-sampler G = ((L, R), E) the
following holds for any ε < γ < 1−ε. Let (Dealout, Recout) be an “outer” (δ, 1−δ)-
ramp secret sharing scheme over n parties and let (Dealin, Recin) be an “inner”
(γ −ε, γ + ε)-ramp secret sharing scheme over d parties. Deﬁne a secret-sharing
scheme (Deal, Rec) over the n parties in L as follows:

How to Recover a Secret with O(n) Additions
259
1. Deal(s): Generate n “virtual shares” (s′
r)r∈R
R←Dealout(s). For each r ∈R,
share each virtual share s′
r via (sr,ℓ)ℓ∈L(r)
R←Dealin(s′
r) where L(r) ⊂L is
the set of left neighbors of a vertex r ∈R in the graph G. Set the share of the
ℓ∈L party to be (sr,ℓ)r∈R(ℓ) where R(ℓ) ⊂R is the set of right neighbors of
a vertex ℓ∈L.
2. Rec(T, (si)i∈T ): For a left set T ⊂L denote by
R+(T) = {r ∈R : dT (r) ≥(γ + ε)d}
the set of right vertices r that have at least (γ + ε)d neighbors in T. Recover
all the virtual secrets (s′
r) for r ∈R+(T) by applying Recin((s′
r,ℓ)ℓ∈L(r)∩T ) and
output the result of Recout((s′
r)r∈R+(T )).
Then the secret-sharing scheme (Deal, Rec) is a (γ −2ε, γ + 2ε)-ramp secret
sharing scheme.
Proof. For correctness, consider a left set T of size at least (γ + 2ε)n. By the
sampling properties of G, the set R+(T) is of size at least (1−δ)n and so, by the
correctness of the inner scheme, at least (1 −δ)n fraction of the virtual shares
are recovered by the coalition T. Hence, correctness follows from the correctness
of the outer secret-sharing schemes.
For privacy, consider a left set T of size at most (γ −2ε)n and let R−(T) =
{r ∈R : dT (r) ≤(γ −ε)d} be the set of right vertices r that have at most (γ−ε)d
neighbors in T. By the sampling properties of G, the set R−(T) is of size at least
(1 −δ)n and so, by the privacy of the inner scheme, at least 1 −δ fraction of the
virtual shares are perfectly hidden from the coalition T. Hence, privacy follows
from the privacy of the outer secret-sharing schemes.
⊓⊔
We note that the above lemma naturally generalizes to the case where the graph
is unbalanced. (We omit the details since this variant is not needed here).
For every constant ε > 0, we can instantiate the lemma with an outer (δ, 1 −
δ)-ramp AOS of linear additive complexity O(n) (e.g., from Corollary 1) and an
inner γd-threshold AOS over d = O(1) parties of complexity polynomial in d
(say based on the formula construction of [7]) and derive a near-threshold AOS
with linear complexity as promised by the main theorem (restated here for the
convenience of the reader).
Theorem 11 (Theorem 1 restated). For every constants 0 < τp < τc < 1
there exists an ensemble of (τp, τc) near-threshold ensemble of secret sharing
schemes whose recovery algorithm makes only O(n) additions. Moreover, (1) the
share size is constant, (2) the sharing also makes O(n) additions, and (3) the
scheme is a BBSS scheme and the sharing and reconstruction algorithms work
universally for all ﬁnite Abelian groups G.
Acknowledgements. We thank Amos Beimel for helpful discussions.

260
B. Applebaum et al.
References
1. Applebaum, B., Kachlon, E., Patra, A.: Veriﬁable relation sharing and multi-
veriﬁer zero-knowledge in two rounds: trading nizks with honest majority -
(extended abstract). In: Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2022–42nd Annual
International Cryptology Conference, CRYPTO 2022, Santa Barbara, CA, USA,
August 15–18, 2022, Proceedings, Part IV, pp. 33–56 (2022). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-031-15985-5_2
2. Ball, M., Çakan, A., Malkin, T.: Linear threshold secret-sharing with binary recon-
struction. In: Tessaro, S. (ed.) 2nd Conference on Information-Theoretic Cryp-
tography, ITC 2021, 23–26 July 2021, Virtual Conference. LIPIcs, vol. 199, pp.
12:1–12:22. Schloss Dagstuhl - Leibniz-Zentrum für Informatik (2021)
3. Baron, J., Ishai, Y., Ostrovsky, R.: On linear-size pseudorandom generators and
hardcore functions. Theor. Comput. Sci. 554, 50–63 (2014)
4. Beimel, A.: Secure schemes for secret sharing and key distribution. Ph.D. thesis,
Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, Israel (1996)
5. Beimel, A.: Secret-sharing schemes: a survey. In: Chee, Y.M., et al. (eds.) IWCC
2011. LNCS, vol. 6639, pp. 11–46. Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-642-20901-7_2
6. Beimel, A., Chor, B.: Universally ideal secret-sharing schemes. IEEE Trans. Inf.
Theory 40(3), 786–794 (1994)
7. Benaloh, J., Leichter, J.: Generalized secret sharing and monotone functions. In:
Goldwasser, S. (ed.) CRYPTO 1988. LNCS, vol. 403, pp. 27–35. Springer, New
York (1990). https://doi.org/10.1007/0-387-34799-2_3
8. Blakley, G.R.: Safeguarding cryptographic keys. In: 1979 International Workshop
on Managing Requirements Knowledge, MARK 1979, New York, NY, USA, 4–7
June 1979, pp. 313–318. IEEE (1979)
9. Boneh, D., et al.: Threshold cryptosystems from threshold fully homomorphic
encryption. In: Shacham, H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2018. LNCS, vol.
10991, pp. 565–596. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
96884-1_19
10. Boneh, D., Lynn, B., Shacham, H.: Short signatures from the weil pairing. J. Cryp-
tol. 17(4), 297–319 (2004)
11. Borodin, A., Moenck, R.: Fast modular transforms. J. Comput. Syst. Sci. 8(3),
366–386 (1974)
12. Bracha, G.: An asynchronous [(n-1)/3]-resilient consensus protocol. In: Proceedings
of the Third Annual ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing
(PODC), 1984. pp. 154–162 (1984)
13. Capalbo, M.R., Reingold, O., Vadhan, S.P., Wigderson, A.: Randomness conduc-
tors and constant-degree lossless expanders. In: Reif, J.H. (ed.) Proceedings on 34th
Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, 19–21 May 2002, Montréal,
Québec, Canada, pp. 659–668. ACM (2002)
14. Chen, H., Cramer, R., Goldwasser, S., de Haan, R., Vaikuntanathan, V.: Secure
computation from random error correcting codes. In: Naor, M. (ed.) EUROCRYPT
2007. LNCS, vol. 4515, pp. 291–310. Springer, Heidelberg (2007). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-540-72540-4_17
15. Chor, B., Kushilevitz, E.: Secret sharing over inﬁnite domains. J. Cryptology 6(2),
87–95 (1993). https://doi.org/10.1007/BF02620136
16. Cramer, R., Damgård, I.B., Döttling, N., Fehr, S., Spini, G.: Linear secret sharing
schemes from error correcting codes and universal hash functions. In: Oswald, E.,

How to Recover a Secret with O(n) Additions
261
Fischlin, M. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2015. LNCS, vol. 9057, pp. 313–336. Springer,
Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-46803-6_11
17. Cramer, R., Fehr, S.: Optimal black-box secret sharing over arbitrary abelian
groups. In: Yung, M. (ed.) CRYPTO 2002. LNCS, vol. 2442, pp. 272–287. Springer,
Heidelberg (2002). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-45708-9_18
18. Cramer, R., Fehr, S., Stam, M.: Black-box secret sharing from primitive sets in
algebraic number ﬁelds. In: Shoup, V. (ed.) CRYPTO 2005. LNCS, vol. 3621, pp.
344–360. Springer, Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/11535218_21
19. Cramer, R., Xing, C.: Blackbox secret sharing revisited: a coding-theoretic app-
roach with application to expansionless near-threshold schemes. In: Canteaut, A.,
Ishai, Y. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2020. LNCS, vol. 12105, pp. 499–528. Springer,
Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-45721-1_18
20. Damgård, I., Ishai, Y., Krøigaard, M., Nielsen, J.B., Smith, A.: Scalable mul-
tiparty computation with nearly optimal work and resilience. In: Wagner, D.
(ed.) CRYPTO 2008. LNCS, vol. 5157, pp. 241–261. Springer, Heidelberg (2008).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-85174-5_14
21. Desmedt, Y.: Threshold cryptography. Eur. Trans. Telecommun. 5(4), 449–458
(1994)
22. Desmedt, Y., Frankel, Y.: Threshold cryptosystems. In: Brassard, G. (ed.)
CRYPTO 1989. LNCS, vol. 435, pp. 307–315. Springer, New York (1990). https://
doi.org/10.1007/0-387-34805-0_28
23. Druk, E., Ishai, Y.: Linear-time encodable codes meeting the gilbert-varshamov
bound and their cryptographic applications. In: Naor, M. (ed.) Innovations in The-
oretical Computer Science, ITCS 2014, Princeton, NJ, USA, 12–14 January 2014,
pp. 169–182. ACM (2014)
24. Fitzi, M., Franklin, M., Garay, J., Vardhan, S.H.: Towards optimal and eﬃcient
perfectly secure message transmission. In: Vadhan, S.P. (ed.) TCC 2007. LNCS,
vol. 4392, pp. 311–322. Springer, Heidelberg (2007). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-540-70936-7_17
25. Gallager, R.G.: Low-density parity-check codes. IRE Trans. Inf. Theory 8(1), 21–28
(1962)
26. Goldreich, O.: A sample of samplers: a computational perspective on sampling. In:
Goldreich, O. (ed.) Studies in Complexity and Cryptography. Miscellanea on the
Interplay between Randomness and Computation. LNCS, vol. 6650, pp. 302–332.
Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-22670-0_24
27. Guruswami, V., Indyk, P.: Linear-time encodable/decodable codes with near-
optimal rate. IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 51(10), 3393–3400 (2005)
28. Harnik, D., Ishai, Y., Kushilevitz, E.: How many oblivious transfers are needed
for secure multiparty computation? In: Menezes, A. (ed.) CRYPTO 2007. LNCS,
vol. 4622, pp. 284–302. Springer, Heidelberg (2007). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-540-74143-5_16
29. Ishai, Y., Kushilevitz, E., Ostrovsky, R., Sahai, A.: Zero-knowledge from secure
multiparty computation. In: Proceedings of the 39th Annual ACM Symposium on
Theory of Computing, San Diego, California, USA, 11–13 June 2007, pp. 21–30
(2007)
30. Ishai, Y., Kushilevitz, E., Ostrovsky, R., Sahai, A.: Cryptography with constant
computational overhead. In: Dwork, C. (ed.) Proceedings of the 40th Annual ACM
Symposium on Theory of Computing, Victoria, British Columbia, Canada, 17–20
May 2008, pp. 433–442. ACM (2008)

262
B. Applebaum et al.
31. Ishai, Y., Prabhakaran, M., Sahai, A.: Founding cryptography on oblivious trans-
fer - eﬃciently. In: Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2008, 28th Annual Inter-
national Cryptology Conference, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, 17–21 August 2008.
Proceedings. pp. 572–591 (2008)
32. Karchmer, M., Wigderson, A.: On span programs. In: Proceedings of the Eigth
Annual Structure in Complexity Theory Conference, San Diego, CA, USA, 18–21
May 1993. pp. 102–111. IEEE Computer Society (1993)
33. Karp, R., Pippenger, N., Sipser, M.: A time-randomness tradeoﬀ. In: AMS Con-
ference on Probabilistic Computational Complexity, vol. 111 (1985)
34. Krawczyk, H.: Distributed ﬁngerprints and secure information dispersal. In: Ander-
son, J., Toueg, S. (eds.) Proceedings of the Twelth Annual ACM Symposium on
Principles of Distributed Computing, Ithaca, New York, USA, 15–18 August 1993,
pp. 207–218. ACM (1993)
35. Luby, M., Mitzenmacher, M., Shokrollahi, M.A., Spielman, D.A.: Eﬃcient erasure
correcting codes. IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 47(2), 569–584 (2001)
36. Luby, M., Mitzenmacher, M., Shokrollahi, M.A., Spielman, D.A., Stemann, V.:
Practical loss-resilient codes. In: Leighton, F.T., Shor, P.W. (eds.) Proceedings of
the Twenty-Ninth Annual ACM Symposium on the Theory of Computing, El Paso,
Texas, USA, 4–6 May 1997, pp. 150–159. ACM (1997)
37. Massey, J.L.: Some applications of source coding in cryptography. Eur. Trans.
Telecommun. 5(4), 421–430 (1994)
38. Oswald, P., Shokrollahi, A.: Capacity-achieving sequences for the erasure channel.
IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 48(12), 3017–3028 (2002)
39. Pippenger, N.: On the evaluation of powers and monomials. SIAM J. Comput.
9(2), 230–250 (1980)
40. Richardson, T.J., Urbanke, R.L.: Modern Coding Theory. Cambridge University
Press, Cambridge (2008)
41. Shamir, A.: How to share a secret. Commun. ACM 22(11), 612–613 (1979)
42. Shoup, V.: Practical threshold signatures. In: Preneel, B. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2000.
LNCS, vol. 1807, pp. 207–220. Springer, Heidelberg (2000). https://doi.org/10.
1007/3-540-45539-6_15
43. Shpilka, A., Yehudayoﬀ, A.: Arithmetic circuits: a survey of recent results and open
questions. Found. Trends Theor. Comput. Sci. 5(3–4), 207–388 (2010)
44. Tomescu, A., et al.: Towards scalable threshold cryptosystems. In: 2020 IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy, SP 2020, San Francisco, CA, USA, 18–21
May 2020, pp. 877–893. IEEE (2020)

