Improved Alternating-Moduli PRFs
and Post-quantum Signatures
Navid Alamati1(B), Guru-Vamsi Policharla2, Srinivasan Raghuraman3,
and Peter Rindal1
1 VISA Research, Foster City, USA
nalamati@visa.com
2 UC Berkeley, Berkeley, USA
3 VISA Research and MIT, Cambridge, UK
Abstract. We revisit the alternating moduli paradigm for construct-
ing symmetric key primitives with a focus on constructing highly eﬃ-
cient protocols to evaluate them using secure multi-party computation
(MPC). The alternating moduli paradigm of Boneh et al. (TCC 2018)
enables the construction of various symmetric key primitives with the
common characteristic that the inputs are multiplied by two linear maps
over diﬀerent moduli, ﬁrst over F2 and then over F3.
The ﬁrst contribution focuses on eﬃcient two-party evaluation of alter-
nating moduli PRFs, eﬀectively building an oblivious pseudo random
function. We present a generalization of the PRF proposed by Boneh
et al. (TCC 18) along with methods to lower the communication and
computation. We then provide several variants of our protocols, with
diﬀerent computation and communication tradeoﬀs, for evaluating the
PRF. Most are in the OT/VOLE hybrid model while one is based on
specialized garbling. Our most eﬃcient protocol eﬀectively is about 3×
faster and requires 1.3× less communication.
Our next contribution is the eﬃcient evaluation of the OWF f(x) =
B·3(A·2x) proposed by Dinur et al. (CRYPTO 21) where A ∈Fm×n
2
, B ∈
Ft×m
3
and ·p is multiplication mod p. This surprisingly simple OWF can
be evaluated within MPC by secret sharing x over F2, locally comput-
ing v = A·2x, performing a modulus switching protocol to F3 shares,
followed by locally computing the output shares y = B·3v. We design
a bespoke MPC-in-the-Head (MPCitH) signature scheme that evaluates
the OWF, achieving state of art performance. The resulting signature
has a size ranging from 4.0–5.5 KB, achieving between 2-3× reduction
compared to Dinur et al. To the best of our knowledge, this is only ≈5%
larger than the smallest signature based on symmetric key primitives,
including the latest NIST PQC competition submissions. We addition-
ally show that our core techniques can be extended to build very small
post-quantum ring signatures for small-medium sized rings that are com-
petitive with state-of-the-art lattice based schemes. Our techniques are
in fact more generally applicable to set membership in MPCitH.
G.-V. Policharla—Part of this work was done while the second author was an intern
at VISA Research.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2024
L. Reyzin and D. Stebila (Eds.): CRYPTO 2024, LNCS 14927, pp. 274–308, 2024.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-68397-8_9

Improved Alternating-Moduli PRFs and Post-quantum Signatures
275
1
Introduction
We revisit the line of work on building cryptographic primitives such as one-way
functions (OWFs) [51], pseudo random generators (PRGs) [17,65], and pseudo
random functions [35] that can be evaluated eﬃciently in a distributed setting.
Traditionally, instantiations of these primitives have taken two approaches as
described in [4]. The ﬁrst is the reductionist approach where the security of the
construction can be reduced to a “standard” set of well-studied computational
assumptions such as the hardness of factoring, discrete logarithm, or learning
with errors. The second is a direct construction approach where the construction
itself is considered to be the computational assumption. Indeed, many of today’s
most widely used primitives follow the direct approach (e.g., AES, SHA).
The reductionist approach comes with several beneﬁts—it improves our the-
oretical understanding of how various computational hard problems are related
and allows the cryptographic community to focus its cryptanalytic eﬀorts on
a small set of assumptions. With the test of time, newer assumptions become
widely accepted and eventually considered standard by the community. Unfortu-
nately, the beneﬁt of this approach often comes at a large cost to eﬃciency: often
resulting in orders of magnitude worse eﬃciency compared to the direct con-
struction approach (consider the eﬃciency gap between SHA-256 and discrete-
logarithm-based hash functions). Moreover, with the looming threat of quantum
computers, many of the existing standard assumptions are at risk of becom-
ing insecure which, in turn, motivates the investigation of new cryptographic
assumptions.
The security of the direct or new constructions, while often not reducible to
a standard assumption, are often based on a set of principles that are developed
and reﬁned as the problem is studied. The canonical example of this is linear and
diﬀerential cryptanalysis of symmetric key cryptography. Other examples include
early lattice-based construction such as NTRU [41]. In many cases, these schemes
ﬁrst developed security principles which, in time, were reﬁned into a small set
of underlying (standard) assumptions.
An additional beneﬁt of direct constructions is that it allows for an added
degree of ﬂexibility to conform to a changing set of requirements. This is partic-
ularly true in this work where we are focused on designing and using symmetric
key primitives that are extremely eﬃcient to evaluate in the secure multi-party
setting. Indeed, it seems highly unlikely that assumptions and constructions
designed for a wildly diﬀerent set of constraints would be ideal for this setting.
An added advantage of the direct approach is that this ﬂexibility often allows
the construction to lack the algebraic structure that a quantum computer could
exploit. In some cases algebraic techniques such as Grobner bases can still apply.
However, this still requires exploiting speciﬁc structure in the construction which
is not always present. This is contrasted by traditional assumptions such as fac-
toring or discrete logarithm which have a large amount of structure.
With the increased use of secure multi-party computation (MPC) and the
looming approach of quantum computers, there has been a need to consider a new
set of assumptions that meet a new set of requirements. In particular, primitives

276
N. Alamati et al.
such as ring signatures [61], oblivious pseudo random functions (OPRFs) [33,57],
veriﬁable random functions (VRFs) [54], blind signatures [25], and more lack
eﬃcient constructions that meet one or more of these requirements. This work
is focused on using new symmetric key techniques and novel protocol designs
to implement these applications using secure multi-party computation, or the
zero-knowledge compiler known as MPC-in-the-head.
MPC-friendliness. There are two main categories of concretely eﬃcient MPC
protocols—garbling-based (round optimal but large communication overhead)
and linear secret sharing-based (communication eﬃcient but round complexity
grows with the depth of the circuit). Garbling-based approaches are typically
thought to have prohibitively high overheads making them impractical for most
applications as also noted in [27]. Ideally, we want to design primitives that can
be evaluated in just one round trip (the minimum required) using linear secret
sharing-based protocols.
There has been a long line of work in this direction, with a focus on modifying
existing symmetric key primitives to make them MPC-friendly [8,9,28,29,36,37].
Despite making progress towards MPC-friendliness, these constructions still suf-
fer from a large round complexity and/or large communication overhead (see [18]
for a discussion). To understand the reason behind the unsatisfactory progress
in building MPC-friendly symmetric key primitives, it helps to understand the
high-level strategy underlying the cryptanalysis of symmetric key primitives.
A popular approach is diﬀerential cryptanalysis [16] for block ciphers which
analyses the eﬀect that a change in the input has on the output. By making
suﬃciently many queries, one may be able to later distinguish the output from a
uniformly random string. The depth of the function is correlated with the diﬃ-
culty of building a distinguisher and low-depth functions are expected to be less
secure—conﬂicting with the goal of MPC-friendliness.
Deep Yet Shallow. A key observation made by [18] is that the notions of depth
required by MPC and security against cryptanalysis are in fact very diﬀerent.
Starting with this observation, they propose the alternating-moduli paradigm
which mixes linear functions over diﬀerent moduli. One can build concretely
eﬃcient MPC protocols to evaluate such functions, where the number of rounds
needed only depends on the number of piecewise linear functions. The same
function when expressed as a polynomial over a single modulus has a much
higher degree, making it resistant to cryptanalysis. This key observation allowed
them to build a depth-2 weak PRF which can be evaluated in just one round
trip, given a preprocessing phase. Their construction has mostly resisted initial
cryptanalysis, with some (easily ﬁxable) attacks requiring a large number of
samples found in [26]. This work was followed by Dinur et al. [27] who proposed
a new OWF, PRG, and a weak PRF based on the same paradigm and showed
that one could construct eﬃcient MPC protocols to evaluate them leading to a
very eﬃcient round-optimal oblivious pseudo random function. They also showed
that the OWF could be used to build a post-quantum signature scheme with good

Improved Alternating-Moduli PRFs and Post-quantum Signatures
277
concrete eﬃciency albeit still larger than the state-of-the-art using symmetric-
key primitives.
Good but not Great. While prior work designed eﬃcient protocols around the
OWF/wPRFs that were proposed, they still either fell short of beating the state-
of-the-art or suﬀered from other limitations. Despite being able to design crypto-
graphic primitives from the ground up, it is unsatisfactory that these protocols
are not “the best”. In particular, the signature scheme from [27] has a much
larger size than the state-of-the-art 4-7 KB. More advanced primitives such as
ring signatures and veriﬁable random functions have remained relatively unex-
plored. Moreover, the 2PC protocols for evaluating these symmetric key func-
tions required signiﬁcant time to generate the required correlated randomness
while the main phase of these protocols have more communication than one
would hope for.
1.1
Our Contributions
We emphasize that the goal of this work is to revisit the alternating-moduli
paradigm and show that when protocols are carefully designed, such that they
exploit the structure of alternating-moduli primitives, they indeed achieve state-
of-the-art performance. In light of the limitations discussed above, we make the
following contributions:
– New Candidate wPRF. We investigate bottlenecks in the (weak) PRF
candidates and propose a new candidate in Sect. 4. Our wPRF requires less
communication and eﬀectively a third of the number of OTs when evaluated
in MPC. While prior work [27] propose a protocol with good performance for
the main phase, they omit their relatively large cost of generating correlated
randomness. The careful design of our new wPRF optimizes the end-to-end
cost of the protocols while at the same time achieving better performance
in the main phase. Our construction allows one to instantiate it with O(λ)
amortized evaluation time while prior works [18,27] mandated O(λ2) time.
While previous work [18,27] has primarily focused on using linear secret shar-
ing, and dismissed garbling-based approaches, we show that using specialized
garbling schemes leads to competitive protocols that oﬀer an interesting trade-
oﬀbetween the computation and communication.
– New Cryptanalysis & Generalized wPRF Candidate. Sect. 4 contin-
ues where we present new cryptanalysis of our construction and the prior art.
We show that the hardness of this class of wPRFs is connected to the hard-
ness of solving sparse multivariate polynomials over F3 or, in its dual form,
the hardness of interpolating sparse multilinear polynomials. This analysis
suggests a generalized construction based on solving a system of sparse mul-
tilinear equations over a small ﬁnite ﬁeld (or the dual) and might, with time,
form the basis of an underlying cryptographic assumption.
– Fastest OPRF and wPRF Protocols. In Sect. 2 we give an overview and
a detailed description in [5]. We report their performance metrics in Sect. 7.

278
N. Alamati et al.
When compared to the prior alternating-moduli wPRF of [27], our implemen-
tation is an order of magnitude faster, due in part to the implementation itself
and the structure of the new wPRF. Compared to commonly used LowMC
construction, we observe that our protocols have far fewer rounds of interac-
tion (2 vs. 14 to 88) and are 3 to 20 times faster. Indeed, even compared to
DDH-based OPRF protocols, our protocols are an order of magnitude faster
and require only slightly more communication. Concretely, our fastest proto-
col requires just 2 rounds, 7.7 microseconds, and 100 bytes of communication
in the amortized setting.
– Small pq-signatures from Symmetric-key Assumptions. We begin
Sect. 6 by revisiting the digital signature scheme from [27] and build a special-
ized MPC-in-the-Head (MPCitH) protocol targeting the same OWF, giving
us signature sizes ranging from 4.0–5.5 KB. To the best of our knowledge,
this gives the second smallest signature (only 5% larger than the smallest)
based on symmetric-key/MPCitH techniques.1 This also addresses an implicit
open question in [27] about whether a specialized proof system for the AM-
OWF can lead to better performance. In this process, we also oﬀer additional
insights into the security of the AM-OWF, which serves as a useful guideline
when introducing additional structure in B.
– Smallest pq-ring signatures. In Sect. 9 of [5], we extend our digital signa-
ture scheme to a ring signature scheme by introducing a simple yet powerful
technique to prove disjunctions of the same relation in MPCitH. Our ring
signature grows linearly in the size of the ring, but for small to medium-sized
rings, we are concretely smaller than the state-of-the-art. For larger rings,
most MPCitH-based signatures, including ours, can be combined with the
compiler by Goel et al. [34] to build ring signatures whose size only grows
logarithmically in the ring size.
2
Overview
MPC-friendly wPRF. We propose a new weak PRF in the alternating-moduli
paradigm [18]. For n, m, t = O(λ), our construction is deﬁned as
F(k, x) := B ·3 (A ·2 [k ⊙2 x])
where x, k ∈Fn
2 are the input and key, A ∈Fm×n
2
is a random matrix, B ∈Ft×m
3
is a compressing random matrix, and ·p, ⊙p are multiplication and component-
wise multiplication modulo p. This diﬀers from the prior constructions [18] which
can be deﬁned as F(A, x) := B(Ax) where the matrix A is interpreted as the
key.
We conjecture that the core hardness of these construction stems from three
components.
1 Compared against submissions to the most recent NIST call for additional post-
quantum digital signature schemes. See Post-Quantum signatures zoo for easy com-
parison.

Improved Alternating-Moduli PRFs and Post-quantum Signatures
279
1. The input and key are non-linearly combined modulo two.
2. Modulo two summations of subsets are taken.
3. Modulus conversion is followed by a public compressing linear map B.
Observe that both our construction and the construction of [18] follow these
three phases. In particular, the matrix-vector multiplication of [18] can be viewed
as performing (1) component-wise multiplication with each row of the matrix,
followed by (2) summation. When viewed this way, observe that the summations
in (2) are over disjoint sets, i.e., 
j(Ai ⊙x)j. This is in contrast with our
construction where we take random summations over a common combined input
vector (k ⊙x). In a sense our construction is reusing the hidden variable of kixi
many times while [18] uses it in a single term.
When interpreted in the MPC context, recall that linear operations are essen-
tially free while multiplications require communication.2 The number of multi-
plication terms of [18] is proportional to the size of A, i.e., O(λ2), and as such,
O(λ2) communication is required. [27] gave specialized protocols for the wPRF
of [18] which reduced the communication complexity to O(λ) in the amortized
setting. In particular, [27] proposed modifying the key matrix A to be circulant,
i.e., each row is a shift of the previous, which allows one eﬃciently multiply K·x
for many x with an amortized O(λ) communication overhead. However, we show
that the process of generating the correlated randomness for this multiplication
still requires O(λ2) work with relatively high constants.
In contrast, our construction only performs n = O(λ) multiplications in step
(1) and therefore can completely sidestep the need for this expensive correlated
randomness. Moreover, we show how the parties can use the fact that the key
is typically static to generate reusable correlated randomness (i.e., n OTs) to
compute shares of (k ⊙x) for an unbounded number of x. The main complexity
of our protocols is how shares of A(k ⊙x) are converted from modulo 2 to
modulo 3. We show that this can be done with m = O(λ) communication and
m OTs which can be generated with sublinear communication using pseudo
radnom correlation generators [22,59]. Compared to [27], our techniques require
less correlated randomness and therefore are more eﬃcient. The ﬁnal setup of
our protocol is for the parties to locally apply the F3 linear map B to their Fm
3
secret sharing of (A · (k ⊙x)). To improve eﬃciency, we propose instantiating
A, B such that multiplication can be done in linear time while maintaining their
desired security properties.
We give two additional variants of this protocol. The ﬁrst switches the order
of the moduli. That is, the wPRF is deﬁned as F(k, x) = B ·2 (A ·3 [k ⊙3 x]).
The resulting protocol is conceptually similar. The primary advantage of this
protocol is for MPC applications where the output should be in binary secret
sharing format [11,56]. Our second variant is based on a specialized garbling
scheme. The main advantage of this protocol is that it does not require any
OT correlations when performing modulus conversion. However, it comes at the
2 That is, given a modulo p secret sharing of v ∈Fn
p and public M ∈Fm×n
p
, the
parties can compute M ·p v without any communication. However, multiplication of
two secret shared scalers requires communication.

280
N. Alamati et al.
expense of requiring O(λ2) communication to compute (k ⊙x). We believe this
construction is interesting when only a few evaluations are performed. For details
on our protocols we refer to Sect. 5.4 of [5].
We implement our MPC protocols and report their performance in Sect. 7.
Overall, we observe a 3 to 20 times reduction in running time compared to alter-
natives such as [9,27] while substantially reducing the communication overhead.
Indeed, compared to the DDH OPRF protocol [53], our construction is an order
of magnitude faster with comparable communication.
Beyond proposing the new wPRF and the associated MPC protocols, we
adapt existing cryptanalysis techniques to determine parameters for the wPRF.
Compared to [18,27], we observe the n, m, t parameters must be increased a mod-
erate amount. However, we give techniques to mitigate this increased parameter
size, and in some cases even allow for less communication overhead. Our anal-
ysis suggests that the most relevant attack on the construction is a reduction
from subset sum [27]. In particular, given an input output pair (x, y = F(k, x)),
one can deﬁne the intermediate vector w := A(k ⊙x). Viewing A as a linear
code and letting P be the associated parity check matrix, the adversary has the
constrains that Pw = 0 and Bw = y. One can solve for w using subset sum
solvers which have running time O(20.33m). For some of our parameters regimes
we show that the adversary must consider multiple samples and present a new
extension of subset sum to this setting. We refer to Sect. 4.3 for details.
Lastly, we show that the hardness of our construction along with the other
alternating-moduli constructions can be reduced to the hardness of solving sparse
multivariate polynomials. In particular, we show that our wPRF is equivalent
to F ′(k, x) = m
i=1
m
j=1 ¯kAijxj
j
mod 3. Therefore, a key recovery attack for
the construction directly corresponds to solving a system of sparse multilinear
equations over F3. This leads us to a generalized framework for instantiating
alternating-moduli weak PRFs. In particular,
F(k, X) =
m

i=1
m

j=1
kj
xij
mod p
where the distribution of X can be varied to capture the various constructions.
Signatures. Given that the alternating-moduli OWF (AM-OWF) was designed
with the eﬃcient evaluation within MPC in mind, i.e., low non-linear depth but
high algebraic degree, it is natural to try to build a signature scheme using the
MPC-in-the-head paradigm. In particular, the AM-OWF of [27] is deﬁned as
F(x) := B ·3 (A ·2 x)
for some n, m, t ∈O(λ) where x ∈Fn
2 are the input, A ∈Ft×m
2
is an expanding
random matrix, B ∈Fm×n
3
is a compressing random matrix, and ·p, ⊙p are
multiplication and component-wise multiplication modulo p. The hardness of
inverting this function stems from the non-linearity of changing the modulus
between multiplying by A and B. One interpretation of this problem is Be is an
LPN instance with correlated noise vector e = Ax.

Improved Alternating-Moduli PRFs and Post-quantum Signatures
281
To build a signature in the MPC-in-the-head paradigm, the public key is the
output y = F(x) = B(Ax) on some uniformly random input x, and a signature is
simply a proof of knowledge of a pre-image x. Indeed, this was the exact approach
taken in prior work [27], where they used the KKW proof system [49] resulting
in signatures with sizes ranging from 10.3–13.3KB, which are still 2-3× larger
than the best known signatures from symmetric-key assumptions. The issue is
that the KKW proof system has a generic way of handling the pre-processing
material needed for the MPC, that is oblivious to the function being evaluated.
These checks on pre-processed material account for a signiﬁcant chunk of the
overall proof size.
The MPCitH protocol that we design is very close the KKW proof system,
except for the way in which we handle preprocessing checks. Instead of using a
cut-and-choose strategy, we use an idea from [23], that has the prover ﬁrst com-
mit to the inputs, and (possibly maliciously generated) preprocessing material.
The veriﬁer then permutes the preprocessing material and forces the prover to
use this ordering when executing the online phase of the MPC protocol. We then
show that for any choice of (incorrect) preprocessing material, a malicious prover
who does not know a valid pre-image, has a very low-probability of producing
an accepting proof. Although the high level ideas are borrowed from prior work,
the concrete hard problem that we consider is very diﬀerent and hence demands
a completely separate, non-trivial analysis. Instead of using a ball-and-bins anal-
ysis as done in [23], we view the problem through the lens of Error Correcting
Codes, which enables us to give much cleaner bounds in comparison to prior
work which relied on conjectures that were conﬁrmed for their parameters by
explicitly computing them via python scripts (Sect. 5.2).
Ring Signatures. A ring signature allows a party to sign a message, while
remaining anonymous amongst a chosen set of ℓ(say) parties. Given a signature
scheme, there is a generic way to build ring signatures by providing a zero-
knowledge proof for the statement:
“I know a signature σ, on the message m that veriﬁes under a public key
pki for some i ∈[ℓ].”
The challenge, however, lies in minimizing the concrete overhead introduced
on top of a single signature, when trying to prove membership of the public
key pki ∈{pk1, . . . , pkℓ}. The state-of-the-art in post-quantum ring signatures
are lattice-based schemes [31,52], which build concretely eﬃcient zero-knowledge
proofs for set-membership adapted to the lattice setting.
The only competing alternative appears to be based on MPCitH [34], where
the ring signature size grows as O(log ℓ) but they are concretely worse than
[31,52]. This can be attributed to two main factors:
– First, they use Picnic [24] as the core signature scheme which is quite large
≈42 KB when instantiated with NIST L5 parameters.3
3 https://microsoft.github.io/Picnic/.

282
N. Alamati et al.
– Second, although the signature size is only O(ℓ), the concrete constants are
still quite high for small-medium sized rings.
The former issue can be handled easily by replacing Picnic with either the signa-
ture scheme we propose or one of the other newer, smaller, MPCitH based signa-
ture schemes (see Fig. 2). This would yield concretely good signatures, that are
competitive with lattice-based schemes at large ring sizes. However, we observe
that in practice, small-medium sized rings are used. For instance, in the ring
signatures protocol used by Monero as part of RingCT, the number of public
keys used in the anonymity set was only very recently upgraded from 11 to 16.4
We close this gap in the literature for small-medium sized rings using a simple
yet powerful idea (Sect. 9 of [5]). When combined with our signature scheme
described above, this yields competitive post-quantum ring signatures for rings
of size < 32.
At a high-level, our strategy is to interpolate a polynomial Y (X) such that
Y (i) = pki for i ∈[ℓ] and have the prover show that the public key they know
(i, pki, Q(X)) satisﬁes Y (X) −pki = Q(X)(X −i) for some degree ℓ−2 polyno-
mial Q(X). The veriﬁer then checks that this equation holds at a random point
r in the ﬁeld. With overwhelming probability, we are then guaranteed that the
claimed polynomial and public key indeed satisfy the relation above. However,
this is not suﬃcient by itself, as the prover has to now show that i ∈[ℓ]. We
obtain this for free when the public keys can be interpreted as ﬁeld elements in
GF(pt) for some prime t. This is indeed the case for the AM-OWF and other
MPCitH signatures based on AES,LowMC,Rain4,AIM [2,9,30,50], etc. Instead
of secret sharing i over GF(pt), the prover shares it over GF(ℓ), and if ℓis a
power of p, the parties in the MPC, can locally embed their shares in GF(pt)
by appending 0s. Note that this immediately guarantees that i can be expressed
using logp ℓdigits and this also does not leak any information about i as the
veriﬁer already knows that any honest prover uses an i ∈GF(ℓ).
3
Preliminaries
We use [n] to denote the set {1, 2, . . . , n}. The computational and statistical
security parameter is denoted by λ, σ ∈N. A function f : N →N is said to be
polynomial if there exists a constant c such that f(n) ≤nc for all n ∈N, and
we write poly(·) to denote such a function. A function f : N →[0, 1] is said to
be negligible if for every c ∈N, there exists N ∈N such that for all n > N,
f(n) < n−c, and we write negl(·) to denote such a function. A probability is
noticeable if it is not negligible, and overwhelming if it is equal to 1 −negl(λ)
for some negligible function negl(λ). For a set S, we write s ←S to indicate
that s is sampled uniformly at random from S. For a random variable D, we
write d ←D to indicate that d is sampled according to D. An algorithm A
is PPT (probabilistic polynomial-time) if its running time is bounded by some
4 https://github.com/monero-project/research-lab/issues/79.

Improved Alternating-Moduli PRFs and Post-quantum Signatures
283
polynomial in the size of its input. We use Δ(X, Y ), to denote the statistical
distance between two random variables X and Y and ΔH(x, y) to denote the
hamming distance between two vectors x, y ∈{0, 1}k. For two ensembles of
random variables {D0,λ}λ∈N, {D1,λ}λ∈N, we write D0 ≈c D1 to indicate that for
all PPT A, it holds that

Pr
d←D0,λ[A(d) = 1] −
Pr
d←D1,λ[A(d) = 1]
 ≤1
2 + negl(λ).
We use x to denote an additive sharing of x and overload this with arith-
metic operations such as multiplication and addition to show operations applied
on individual shares by the parties in the MPC. We will also write xi to denote
the share of the i-th party. When useful, we will explicitly state the ﬁeld Fp that
is being secret shared over as xp. We use ⟨a, b⟩to denote the inner product of
two vectors a, b ∈Fn
p and ⊙to denote the Hadamard product of two vectors.
We recall the deﬁnition of universal hash families and the Leftover Hash
Lemma. Let H∞(X) denote the min-entropy of a random variable X and Un
denote the uniform distribution over {0, 1}n.
Deﬁnition 1 (Strong Extractors). A function f : {0, 1}n×{0, 1}d →{0, 1}m
is said to be a strong (k, ε) extractor, with seed length d, if for all random vari-
ables X on {0, 1}n, independent of Ud, with H∞(X) ≥k,
Δ(f(X, Ud), Um) ≤ε.
Deﬁnition 2 (Universal Hash Families). A family H of hash functions of
size 2d from {0, 1}n to {0, 1}m is said to be universal if, for every x, y ∈{0, 1}n
with x ̸= y,
Pr
h∈H[h(x) = h(y)] ≤2−m.
Deﬁnition 3 (Leftover Hash Lemma [39]). Let X be a random variable with
H∞(X) ≥k, and H : {0, 1}n →{0, 1}m be a universal hash family of size 2d. If
m = k −2 log 1
2ε, then h(x) is a strong (k, ε) extractor, with seed length d and
output length m.
Deﬁnition 4 (q-ary entropy). For any integer q ≥2 and real x ∈[0, 1], the
q-ary entropy function is deﬁned as Hq(x) = x logq (q −1) −x logq (x) −(1 −
x) logq (1 −x)
Deﬁnition 5 (Volume of Hamming Ball [38]). Let q ≥2 and 0 ≤r/n ≤
1−1/q. Then the volume of a Hamming ball of radius r in Fn
q is qHq(r/n)n−o(n) ≤
Volq(r, n) ≤qHq(r/n)n.
4
AM-Based Pseudo Random Functions
We now move on to the design, analysis, and implementation of our new weak
PRF and the associated MPC protocols. To better understand our new construc-
tion we ﬁrst review closely related MPC-Friendly (weak) PRFs [35]. Additional
discussion can be found in Sect. 5 of [5].

284
N. Alamati et al.
Boneh et al. Weak PRF. Boneh et al. [18] propose a weak PRF with expo-
nential security that can be computed by depth 2 circuits with mixed moduli. In
particular, they consider the function f(K, x) = g(K ·2 x) where g(w) = 
i wi
mod 3 and the matrix K is viewed as the key. w := K ·2 x ∈Fm
2 is a binary
vector that is embedded into Fm
3 component-wise in the natural way. As dis-
cussed later, [18] proposes to restrict K to being a circulant (or toeplitz) matrix,
that is, each row is a shift of the previous. [18,27] show that various types of
learning algorithms provably cannot learn this function by showing that there
are no ﬁxed function families of exponential size that is correlated with it. They
additionally show that it can not be approximated by any low-degree polyno-
mial. This result follows from the result of Razborov-Smolensky [60,64] showing
that MODp can not be approximated by any low depth mod q circuit, where
p, q are distinct primes. [27] proceed to give several extensions to their core con-
struction. The ﬁrst is support for multiple output bits. The function is deﬁned
as f(K, x) := B ·3 (K ·2 x) where K is a square matrix and B is a compressing
matrix. In particular, one can view B as a generator matrix for a linear code
that has high minimum distance. The best-known attacks for this construction
attempt to distinguish by detecting a linear bias in the output. However, these
attacks scale exponentially in the minimum distance of B [18]. We note that
the structure of this PRF is identical to the aforementioned OWF. Indeed, [27]
based the OWF on the PRF construction of [18] where the key K is replaced with
a public random matrix. [27] also conjectures that the F2, F3 can be replaced
by any distinct prime ﬁelds Fp, Fq. The core hardness of the problem appears
unaﬀected with all known attacks performing equally poorly on larger moduli.
However, F2, F3 and F3, F2 appear to be the most eﬃcient choice due to yielding
more eﬃcient modulus conversion protocols.
[18] suggests choosing the key K ∈Fm×n
p
to be a square cirulant matrix, i.e.
choose K1 ∈Fn
2 uniformly and deﬁne the remaining rows as a rotation by one
of the previous. Choosing K with this distribution allows one to express K in
O(λ) space and, as we will see below, enables eﬃcient matrix vector products,
i.e. x·K, in the two party setting [27]. With some exception that we will discuss
later, choosing K with this distribution does not appear to degrade security for
the parameters used by [18,27], i.e. n = m = 2λ, t ≈0.6λ.
Previous works [18,27] on implementing this PRF in MPC have considered
two settings. Honest majority three-party and two-party semi-honest setting with
both follow a similar structure. First the F2 secret shared inputs K2 and x2
are multiplied5 together to obtain w2 := K2x2. The exact method used to
compute this depends on the setting and is discussed below. Once the sharing of
w = K · x is computed, the parties perform a modulus switching protocol where
the shares w2 are converted into w3. [27] suggests that one can preprocess
a random double sharing r2, r3 for a uniform r ∈F2 using some protocol
and to reveal w′ := r2 + w2. Using r3, it is then possible to subtract oﬀ
5 When the inputs are plaintext, more eﬃcient multiplication can be used.

Improved Alternating-Moduli PRFs and Post-quantum Signatures
285
r from w′ to obtain w3. The ﬁnal step of the protocol is to locally compute
f(K, x)3 := B ·3 w3.
The outline above requires two missing steps, eﬃciently computing a sharing
of x · K and generating random modulus conversion double sharings r2, r3.
Next we discuss how [27] suggests this be done.
Honest Majority Three Party Setting. In the honest majority setting, the inner
product between two vectors can be computed with O(1) communication [10]
which implies that w2 = x2 · K2 can be computed with linear communica-
tion overhead, i.e. O(n + m). Similarly, it is possible to have one of the parties
generate r2, r3 locally and then only reveal w′ to the other parties, i.e. O(m)
communication.
Two Party Setting. The two party setting the situation is more complicated due
to not having a O(1) communication inner product protocol. However, when
evaluating the wPRF for a ﬁxed key K for many inputs, one can amortize this
cost. In particular, for bits b1, ..., bq ∈F2 and a ﬁxed vector Δ ∈Fm
2 , one
can use correlated OT protocols, e.g. IKNP [45], SoftSpoken [62] or Silent OT
[21,59], to generate the secret sharings biΔ2. Moreover, Silent OT can achieve
this with an amortized cost of q bits of communication when q is suﬃciently
large, alternatively, SoftSpoken achieves q λ
c communication for any constant c,
e.g. c = 4. Specially, this corresponds to a subﬁeld VOLE protocol with F2
as the subﬁeld and F2m as the extension. When K is circulant, one can set
Δ := K1 ∈F2m and generate sharings of x(i)
j
· Δ and locally rotate these to
obtain x(i)
j
· Kj and sum them to compute Kx(i) as desired. We note that [27]
only mentions the technique above in passing and does not implement or report
on its performance. Instead, they focus on the setting with (free) preprocessed
correlated randomness where Kx can be computed using other methods (which
also leverage the fact that K is cirulant).
[27] does not explicitly state how to generate modulus conversion double shar-
ings and again assumes (free) preprocessing for r2, r3. A natural choice would
be using oblivious transfer or the more recent work of [44]. Looking forward, we
will oﬀer improvements to these technique in Sect. 6 of [5].
4.1
Our PRF Constructions
An Alternative View of
[18]. We now move on to our main construction
deﬁned in Deﬁnition 7. Leading up to this, let us reconsider the PRF of Boneh
et al. [18] f(K, x) := B·3(K·2x) where x ∈Fn
2 is the input, K ∈Fm×n
2
is the key
(typically square & circulant), and B ∈Ft×m
3
is a public compressing matrix.
Observe that this function can be computed as f(K, x) := B ·3 [A ·2 (k ⊙2 x′)]
where for n′ := nm, k′, x′ ∈Fn′
2 are the appropriately unrolled version of K, x. In
particular, let k′
im+j := Ki,j and x′ := xx...x be m copies of x. Computing the
component-wise product of these two vectors provides all of the terms required
to compute K·2 x. All that remains is to perform the summations corresponding

286
N. Alamati et al.
to the rows of K. This can be achieved using an appropriately deﬁned public
matrix A ∈Fm×nm
2
. In particular, A will be the (compressing) repetition code,
or equivalently it will look like a staircase with consecutive runs of n ones in
each of the m rows.
We argue that this formulation more explicitly describes the construction as
it separates the additive and multiplicative steps. An additional beneﬁt of the
explicit formulation is that the n′ = nm = O(λ2) scalar multiplications between
secret vectors k′, x′ are apparent.
Our Weak PRF. Instead of asking if we can reduce the overhead of the Boneh
et al. construction, it will be more instructive to ask if there are any methods
for plausibly improving the hardness of the function. The most natural option
is to remove all structures from k′, x′, A. If A is the repetition code of [18,27],
then wj is the sum 
i∈[n]+(j−1)m x′
ik′
i = 
i∈[n] xiK1,i+j. As demonstrated by
our insecure construction in Sect. 4 of [5], the alternating modulus paradigm
becomes insecure if each wj is not the combination of O(λ) multiplications and
additions for each wj. As such, choosing a circulant K with dimension O(λ) in
some sense appears to be the most succinct option while remaining secure, i.e.
each input bit xi for i ∈[n] is multiplied by each (independent) key bit K1,j,
leading to nm = O(λ2) terms where the summations are taken over disjoint sets
where xi, K1,j each appear once.
However, we observe that this is by no means the only option. Let us remove
the constraints on x′, k′ ∈Fn′
2
such that they are uniformly distributed and
replace A ∈Fm×n′ with a code with high minimum distance, e.g. A is uniform.
Observe that each wj is now a linear combination of the x′
ik′
i terms. In expec-
tation, each wj will be the summation of n′ = nm = O(λ2) terms. In light of
the known cryptanalysis, this construction appears overly conservative in that
the wj terms only need to be a sum of O(λ) terms while at the same time not
having small linear dependency. We have now deﬁned our new (F2, F3)-wPRF
which is a generalization of the Boneh et al. PRF. In particular, we can write
the implicit construction above more formally as follows:
Deﬁnition 6. Let
n, m, t
∈
N,
our
(F2, F3)-weak-PRF
construction
is
F(k, x) := B ·3 (A ·2 [k ⊙2 x]) where x, k ∈Fn
2 and A ∈Fm×n
2
, B ∈Ft×m
3
are uniformly distributed.
The weak PRF construction of Boneh et al. is then deﬁned by requiring that
x, k, A have repetitive structure along with deﬁning n = O(λ2). However, we will
argue that the problem for uniform x, k, A remains hard even when n = O(λ).
Indeed, one interpretation of our result is that prior works perform O(λ2)
multiplications followed by multiplication with a repetition code while our con-
struction more eﬃciently amortizes the multiplications by replacing the repeti-
tion code with a high minimum distance code. In this way our construction more
diligently uses the limited number of multiplications that are available.
As with Boneh et al. [18], one can similarly generalize our construction to
any prime ﬁelds. That is our (Fp, Fq)-wPRF is deﬁned as

Improved Alternating-Moduli PRFs and Post-quantum Signatures
287
Deﬁnition 7 (Generalized Weak PRF). Let n, m, t ∈N and distinct primes
p, q, our (Fp, Fq)-weak-PRF construction is F(k, x) := B ·q (A ·p [k ⊙p x]) where
x, k ∈Fn
p and A ∈Fm×n
p
, B ∈Ft×m
q
are uniformly distributed.
Following the same analysis as [18], we conjecture that our depth-2 weak
PRF can be compiled into a strong PRF by ﬁrst encoding the input using an
error correcting code with a diﬀerent modulus than the key. In particular, we
conjecture that Deﬁnition 8 is a strong PRF for appropriately chosen n, m, t, d.
Deﬁnition 8 (Generalized Strong PRF). Let n, m, t, d ∈N and distinct
primes p, q, our (Fp, Fq)-strong-PRF construction is F(k, x) := B ·q (A ·p [k ⊙p
(G ·q x)]) where x, k ∈Fn
p and G ∈Fn×d
q
, A ∈Fm×n
p
, B ∈Ft×m
q
are uniformly
distributed.
The core intuition behind this construction is that known attacks against
our weak PRF and the weak PRFs of [18] in the strong setting heavily rely
on PRF evaluations for highly correlated inputs, e.g. having small hamming
distance. [18] proposes a compiler that they deﬁne as encoded input. The core
idea is to restrict the adversary’s choice of inputs to the underlying weak PRF
so that highly correlated inputs are not allowed. A natural example of such an
encoding is encoding the input using a linear error correcting code, i.e. G. The
most eﬃcient option for doing this is to perform the encoding in Fp. However,
[18] shows that this does not work as one can recast this encoded input function
as a new instance of the underlying weak PRF with a diﬀerent A matrix. This
recasting crucially relies on the fact that A and G are over the same modulus and
therefore compose into a new matrix A′. Given this observation [18], suggestions
that G is uniformly sampled over a diﬀerent modulus, e.g. q, and performing an
additional round of modulus conversion of G·qx from Fq to Fp before multiplying
it with the key. We defer to [18] for a more detailed analysis of relevant learning
algorithms for alternating moduli weak PRFs in the strong PRF setting.
4.2
Optimizations
We consider two optimizations to our construction PRF with the aim of improved
eﬃciency when evaluated in the two party setting where the key k is ﬁxed for
many inputs x(1), ..., x(q). Due to the generality of our construction, both can be
framed as changing the distribution of the key k or PRF input x.
Structured Input x. For now, let us focus on the (F2, F3)-wPRF where x(i), k ∈
Fn
2. We consider the general methods for computing x(i) ⊙k, i.e. component-wise
multiplication.
Reusable Key OTs. Given that k is ﬁxed, a natural protocol for computing
k · x(i) is to preprocess a random OT for each bit k1, .., kn of the key. These
can then later be derandomized using standard technique to generate the sharing
k · x(i) using only O(n) communication and minimal computation. The advan-
tage of this approach is that no per evaluation OTs are required. When combined

288
N. Alamati et al.
with our OT based modulus switching, we will show we need only m = 2λ OTs
per evaluation. Alternatively, when combined with our custom garbled circuit
modulus switching protocols, no per evaluation OTs are needed at all. However,
we will see that the disadvantage of this approach is that it requires n = 4λ
bits of communication and as a result this approach will have more commu-
nication (but few OTs) compared to the protocol of [27] with n = 2λ bits of
communication.
Nonreusable Input OTs. To bring down the overall communication, we make the
observation that the input x can have an smaller “eﬀective” size of just λ bits.
First we change the distribution of x such that for some ˆx ∈Fλ, one can express
x as s copies of ˆx, i.e. x = (ˆx||ˆx||...||ˆx). We will then be able to eﬃciently
multiply each bit of ˆxi with the s bits of the key that is corresponds to, i.e.
ki, ki+n/s, ..., using subﬁeld VOLE. In particular, when using Silent VOLE in the
amortized setting, the communication complexity is essentially independent of s.
As a result, the total amortized communication for computing x⊙k with s = 4 is
just λ = n/s bits, a 4 to 2 times reduction depending on the protocol. However,
this change implies that n/s = λ additional VOLE correlations will be consumed
per evaluation. We note that for small s, these Silent VOLE correlations can
be packed together such that computing λ/s of them can be computed at the
eﬀective computational cost of a single random OT.
Finally, we note that for [18,27], applying a similar optimizations results in
their schemes being insecure due to certain weaknesses associated with the use
of the circulant key K, see below for details.
Structured F3 key k. In the case of (F3, F2)-wPRF it will be advantageous
for us to consider a key to restrict the key k which would typically be in Fn
3 to
lay in the binary subset. The operations of multiplying A ·3 (k ⊙3 x) will still be
performed modulo three. We conjecture that this variant is as secure given that
n is increased to compensate for the loss of entropy in the key. When combined
with the Reusable Key OTs optimization above, this enable x⊙k to be computed
with n log2(3) bit of communication as opposed to n log2(3).
Implementation. See Sect. 6 of [5] for a detailed description of our protocols
and Sect. 7 for the performance evaluation of them and a comparison to related
works.
4.3
Secuirty Analysis & Parameter Selection
In this part we show that the plausible security of our weak PRF is connected
to the hardness of solving sparse multivariate polynomials over F3. We then
proceed to details various combinatorics methods for breaking our construction,
with a focus on a reduction from subset sum.
Polynomial Representation. The security of our construction is closely
related to solving the hardness of sparse multivariate polynomials. Indeed, in
Sect. 4 of [5] we present a weakened variant of our construction that can be

Improved Alternating-Moduli PRFs and Post-quantum Signatures
289
broken when viewed as a problem over polynomials. Recall that for t = 1 our
construction is F(k, x) = bT ·3 (A·2 [k⊙2 x]). Observe that one can emulate addi-
tion over F2 using multiplication over F3 by relying on the mapping φ(x) = x+1
(arithmetic in F3), which maps 0 →1 and 1 →−1 (we also use the notation
¯xj = φ(xj) and ¯kj = φ(kj) for j ∈[n]). Then, F(k, x) can be rewritten as
m

i=1
bi · φ−1 m

j=1
¯kaijxj
j

=
m

i=1
bi ·
 m

j=1
¯kaijxj
j
−1

=
m

i=1
m

j=1
¯kaijxj
j
−
m

i=1
bi
	 
 
P
.
The term P is public and hence can be computed by the adversary. Thus, the
hardness of our weak PRF construction boils down to the pseudo randomness of
the following: F ′(k, x) = m
i=1
m
j=1 ¯kaijxj
j
, where operations are done over F3.
For any input x, the weak PRF output is simply a sparse multilinear polynomial
over F3 (where the polynomial is deﬁned by the input and public parameters),
so a key recovery attack for the construction directly corresponds to solving a
system of sparse multilinear equations over F3.
A Generalized Construction. Building upon the idea above, we now describe
a simple framework to instantiate new weak PRFs based on the hardness of
solving a system of sparse multilinear equations over a ﬁnite ﬁeld of (small)
size. First, we ﬁx a ﬁnite ﬁeld Fp and two dimensions m and n. Let F∗
p
n be
the key space and let D be a distribution over m × n binary matrices. The
construction can be succinctly described as follows: F(k, X) = m
i=1
m
j=1 kj
xij,
where all operations are done over Fp. Note that m is the number of terms
in the polynomial and the ith term in the polynomial simply corresponds to a
subset product over the components of the key k according to the ith row of the
input X. For instance, the preceding construction (with public matrix A) is an
instantiation of the framework above with the ﬁeld F3 and the distribution D is
obtained by sampling x ←{0, 1}n and setting the ith row of X as Ai ⊙x.
On the Duality of Polynomial Representation. We remark that in the
polynomial representation outlined above, one can alternatively put ¯xj = φ(xj)
in the base and obtain the following representation of F ′ (a similar representa-
tion can be found for F as well): F ′(k, x) = m
i=1
m
j=1 ¯xaijkj
j
. Note that in this
representation, a key recovery attack would correspond to interpolating sparse
multilinear polynomials. While the connection between AM-based symmetric
primitives and the hardness of interpolating sparse multilinear polynomials has
already been observed by [18], neither of [18] or [27] consider the dual prob-
lem of solving a system of sparse multilinear polynomial equations for their
constructions.
We present several possible parameterizations of our wPRF. The most eﬃ-
cient known attacks [27] are based on a reduction from solving subset sum
[15,20,42]. We will review the core reduction which focuses on the AM-OWF.
We then discuss how this applies to the wPRF where the key is eﬀectively the
AM-OWF input.

290
N. Alamati et al.
Subset Sum Attack. At a high level, the main idea to attack the AM-OWF
can be described in two steps. In the ﬁrst step, inverting the OWF is reduced
to a specialized subset-sum problem. In the second step, modern subset-sum
solving algorithms such as [15,20,42] are modiﬁed in a way that they enable us
to solve the resulting specialized subset-sum problem and invert the OWF. We
focus on the ﬁrst step, as the modiﬁcation can be done via standard algebraic
and combinatorial techniques.
Let y ∈Ft
3 be an output of the OWF on an input x ∈Fn
2, and let w = A ·2 x
be the intermediary evaluation. Observe that there is an (m−n)×m parity check
matrix P such that w = A·2x iﬀw lies in the kernel of P. So, for any intermediary
evaluation w we have P ·2 w = 0 and B ·3 w = y. We now aim to ﬁnd w by a
reduction to subset sum. Denoting the i-th unit vector by ei, note that if we can
ﬁnd a set of indices I ⊆[m] such that

i∈I P ·2 ei, 
i∈I B ·3 ei

= (0, y), then
we can invert the OWF simply be solving A ·2 x = 
i∈I ei. Therefore, we have
a reduction to the subset problem with the target

0, y

∈Fm−n
2
× Ft
3 and m
variables β1, . . . , βm, where we associate βi = 1 with

P ·2 ei, B ·3 ei

. We point
out that this problem can also be seen as a special case of generalized knapsack
problem for the additive group (Fm−n
2
× Ft
3, +), for which search-to-decision
reductions with diﬀerent parameter setting have been proposed by [55].
As mentioned in [27], a slightly modiﬁed version of [42] needs 20.337m time
and 20.256m space (ignoring polynomial factors in m) to invert the OWF. In
addition, the algorithm of [20] (with slight modiﬁcation) runs in 20.283m time
and space. Overall, to achieve s-bit security one needs to set m ≥3.53s. Thus,
a suggested choice of the parameters (n, m, t) in terms of λ for the AM-OWF
would be (λ, 3.53λ, λ/ log2 3).6
One-to-One Parameters. We now present a conservative parameter set for
our wPRF constructions given the subset sum attack. One can rely on the OWF
attack described above to break our (F2, F3) wPRF. Consider ﬁxing some input-
output pair (x, y = F(k, x)) and observe that this can be viewed as an instance
of the OWF applied to the key k. For each xi = 0, it is clear that ki does not have
any impact on the output of the wPRF. Thus, on average, one needs to double
the key/input size to prevent the subset-sum attacks attack from recovering k
given a single (x, y) sample.
We propose the following parameter setting for our (F2, F3)-wPRF to get λ
bits of security: n = 2λ, m = 7.06λ, t = 2λ/ log2 3, which is simply doubling
the parameters in OWF setting to thwart the subset-sum attacks. In particular,
both key and input will be 2λ-bit strings. For the (F3, F2)-wPRF we propose
n = 2λ/ log2(3), m = 7.06λ/ log2(3), t = 2λ.
Indeed, in the restricted single wPRF sample setting, it is not hard to show
that the hardness of the OWF implies the hardness of a key recovery attack.
Recall that the parameters of the OWF imply that it is approximately one-
to-one. As such, for any given x we should expect there to be one value for
x⊙k that is consistent with any given sample. Hence, we denote the parameters
6 More aggressive parameter have been proposed, e.g., (λ, 3.13λ, λ/ log2 3) [27].

Improved Alternating-Moduli PRFs and Post-quantum Signatures
291
above as one-to-one. When generalized beyond the artiﬁcial constrain of a single
sample, one can view each sample (x1, y1), ..., (xq, yq) as deﬁning a related OWF
instance, where the OWF input k and parameter A are “subsetted” by xi.
Many-to-One Parameters. Unlike the OWF, recall that given a sample (x, y),
non-invertability is not a requirement of a wPRF with respect to arbitrary key
k′. Building on this observation we propose to deviate from the OWF param-
eter regime and consider the setting where there are many consistent x ⊙k
for any given (x, y). Speciﬁcally, we deﬁne n = 4λ, m = 2λ, t = λ/ log2(3) for
the (F2, F3)-wPRF and n = 4λ/ log2(3), m = 2λ, t = λ for the (F3, F2)-wPRF.
Focusing on the (F2, F3)-wPRF, observe that for any given sample (y, x), there is
a set Zy,x := {z | y = B·(A·z)∧z⊙x = z} representing the valid k⊙x preimages.
For the parameter regime above, it holds that |Z| = O(2λ). Indeed, consider the
A′, k′ where A′ consists of the columns of A indexed by i s.t. xi = 1 and k′
consists of ki. For the average case of |x| = 2λ, we have A′ ∈Fm×m
2
and there-
fore the size of Z is precisely the size of W = {w | y = B ·3 w ∧w ∈Fm
2 }.
That is, W is deﬁned by the binary codewords of a random t × m linear
codes (viewing B as the parity check matrix) and therefore we would expect
|W| ≈(2/3)m3m−t > 2m−1.6t > 2λ. Therefore the adversary has no advantage
in recovering k given a single sample.
Consider q samples (x(1), y(1)), ..., (x(q), y(q)). Let w(i) := A · (k ⊙x(i)) and
observe that given A, B, x(i), one can compute A′ ∈Fqm×n
2
, B′ ∈Fqt×qm
3
such
that (w(1), ..., w(q)) = A′ · k and (y(1), ..., y(q)) = B′ · (w(1), ..., w(q)).
Therefore, assuming q is suﬃciently large, one can deﬁne P as the
parity check matrix of A′ and solve the following subset sum problem
(
i∈I Pei, 
i∈I B′ei) = (0, y) to recover w = 
i∈I ei and therefore k. However,
the running time of for this problem with the best-known subset sum solver [20]
is O(20.337qm). Based on the discussion above, q must be at least 2 and therefore
the running time is at least O(20.337·2·2λ) = O(21.35λ).
Parameters for Optimizations. In Sect. 4.2 we propose two alterations to the
construction. The ﬁrst proposes to restrict x to be s copies of ˆx ∈Fλ, i.e. n = sλ.
The main attack that this alteration impacts is the potential improved eﬃciency
for sparse polynomial. As with the prior works, our scheme can be framed as the
problem of interpolating sparse polynomials, i.e. F ′(k, x) = m
i=1
n
j=1 ¯xAijkj
j
.
The eﬃciency of these solvers require evaluating the polynomial at speciﬁc val-
ues, e.g. roots of unity. Therefore, one must ensure that suﬃciently few of such
points coincide with the random weak PRF inputs, x(1), ..., x(q). Given that at
most q = 240 queries are made, we conjecture that such techniques remain expo-
nential time. Indeed, [18] shows that if such attacks are eﬀective, then Learning
with Rounding (LWR) [12] for similar parameters is broken. Should a large
bound on q be desired, one can increase n or decrease s accordingly to maintain
the security margin between 2n/s and q.
We note that similar optimizations should not be applied to the protocol of
[27] with a circulant key. In particular, when the wPRF is deﬁned as F(K, x) =
B ·3 (K ·2 x) and K is circulant, the scheme suﬀers from a vulnerability when
x is symmetric, i.e. x = (ˆx||ˆx). Due to the symmetry of both x and K, the

292
N. Alamati et al.
intermediate value w = K·x will also be symmetric, i.e. w = ( ˆw|| ˆw). Given that
B is close to a rate 0.5 matrix, i.e. m/2 ≈t, the attacker can eﬃciently solve for
ˆw and thereby recover w, rendering the scheme insecure. To prevent this, [27]
requires x to be uniform over n = 2λ which result in symmetric x occurring with
negligible probability, unlike the case of n = λ.
The second security relevant optimization we suggest is the restriction of
the key k ∈Fn
3 for the (F3, F2)-wPRF to lie in the binary subset. As discussed,
this halves the communication complexity of computing x⊙k when implemented
using Reusable Key OTs technique. We are not away of any attacks that can take
advantage of this distribution change beyond relatively trivial attacks that par-
tially relay on brute force. To mitigate the impact of these, we suggest increasing
the key length by log2(3), i.e. n = 4λ.
Other Attacks. Another avenue of attack would be utilizing Gr¨obner basis to
solve a system of multilinear polynomial equations. However, in its plain for-
mat, the algorithmic cost of such an attack is quite high and it does not seem
to impact the security of our wPRF constructions. [18,27] both demonstrated
appropriately designed alternating moduli constructions can not be approxi-
mated by low degree polynomials. Moreover, they give conjectures that this
extends to relational functions as well. Assuming the equivalent conjecture for
our construction holds, it appears implausible that generic algebraic techniques
will be eﬀective for our parameters. On the ﬂip side, we are not aware of any
other algebraic attack that particularly exploits the extra structure/information
provided by the wPRF and hence we suggest setting parameters based on subset
sum.
Finally, we refer to the analysis in [18,27] for additional attacks that leverage
some common structure to all of our schemes. For example, one can break the
security if B has small minimum distance, if one is able to eﬃciently enumerate
all w for a ﬁxed y, if one is able to detect bias in the output bits, if one can
use the parity of x, y to distinguish [27], along with attacks based on LPN, and
connections to learning theory [18]. However, these attacks are not signiﬁcantly
impacted by our changes and are less eﬃcient that the subset sum attack.
5
Properties of the AM-OWF
We now turn our attention to constructing post-quantum secure signatures using
the MPC-in-the-head paradigm and AM-OWF of [27]. Recall that the AM-OWF
is deﬁned as f(x) = B(Ax) where A ∈Fm×n
2
and B ∈Ft×m
3
are ﬁxed public
matrices chosen uniformly at random, and Ax is interpreted as a binary vector
in Fm
3 . Before diving into our signature constructions, we ﬁrst prove some useful
properties of the AM-OWF. Roughly speaking, our core lemma shows that when
the input size is made slightly larger than the output, the statistical distance
between the distribution of the output of the AM-OWF on a uniformly random
input and the uniform distribution is negligible. At the same time, we show
that a uniformly random value from Ft
3 lies in the image of the OWF with
overwhelming probability. We will then use this lemma to prove the hardness of

Improved Alternating-Moduli PRFs and Post-quantum Signatures
293
various problems closely related to the AM-OWF that will allow us to reduce
the size of our post-quantum signature scheme. All proofs in this section can be
found in Sect. 10 of [5].
Lemma 1. Let H = {hA,B | A ∈Fm×n
2
, B ∈Ft×m
3
; rank(A) = n} be a family
of hash functions such that hA,B : {0, 1}n →{0, 1}t log 3, then H is a universal
hash family.
By appealing to the Leftover Hash Lemma, we have the following corollary.
Intuitively, Corollary 1 shows that there is a if we swap the output of the AM-
OWF with a uniformly random string of the same size, even a computationally
unbounded adversary fails to distinguish them with some noticeable probability.
Corollary 1. Let hA,B ←H, as deﬁned in Lemma 1 and n ≥t log 3+ω(log λ),
then hA,B is a strong (n, negl(λ)) extractor with output length t log 3.
In addition to being close to the uniform distribution, we will now show that
the AM-OWF covers an overwhelming fraction of the output domain Ft
3.
Lemma 2. For any hA,B ←H, let OhA,B = {hA,B(x)|x ∈Fn
2} denote the
covering of hA,B. Then, with overwhelming probability over the choice of hA,B,
we have |OhA,B|/3t ≥1 −negl(λ).
5.1
Variants of the AM-OWF
We next investigate three variants of the AM-OWF and reduce their hardness
to the hardness of inverting the AM-OWF. Recall that in the (OWF) game,
a challenger samples A ←Fm×n
2
, B ←Ft×m
3
, and x ←Fn
2 and computes an
instance (A, B, y = B(Ax)). The adversary is tasked with ﬁnding any x such
that B(Ax) = y. The advantage of an adversary in this game is the probability
with which it outputs such an x.
Systematic Form. To improve the eﬃciency of our protocols using the AM-
OWF, we wish to use the AM-OWF in systematic form i.e. the lowest m × m
entries of B form an identity matrix. Formally, the systOWF game is identical
to the OWF game except that B is enforced to have a systematic form. The
adversary is given (A, B, x) where all entries are sampled uniformly at random
except for the bottom-most entries of A and the right-most m × m entries of B.
We now prove that this new game is just as hard the original OWF game.
Lemma 3. Given an adversary A that wins the systOWF game with noticeable
advantage, there exists an adversary A′ that wins the OWF game with noticeable
advantage.
Anti-Solution. Due to technical reasons in our protocols, we also need to argue
that it is diﬃcult to ﬁnd an anti solution. We deﬁne another game (antiOWF)
which is identical to the OWF game, except the adversary needs to output an x
such that B(1 ⊕(Ax)) = y and now argue that this as hard as the OWF game.

294
N. Alamati et al.
Lemma 4. Given an adversary A that wins the antiOWF game with noticeable
advantage, there exists an adversary A′ that wins the OWF game with noticeable
advantage.
Approximate-Solution. We deﬁne a ﬁnal game approxOWF(n, m, t), which is
identical to the OWF game but with a relaxed requirement on the solution where
the adversary is given (A, B, y), and must output (x, v, v′) such that v = Ax,
y = Bv′, and ΔH(v, v′) ≤1. In fact, our result holds for any ΔH(v, v′) ≤O(1).
Lemma 5. Given an adversary A that wins the approxOWF(n, m + 1, t) game
with noticeable advantage, there exists an adversary A′ that wins the OWF game
with noticeable advantage, for a slightly smaller OWF(n, m, t) game.
5.2
Combinatorial Analysis
Similar to [23], we compute a bound on the success probability of a cheating
prover who is free to choose the correlations used in the MPCitH. Although the
high-level approach is the same, we use require very diﬀerent techniques, relying
on the properties of error correcting codes.
Deﬁnition 9 (Combinatorial bound - informal). A real p ∈(0, 1) is a
combinatorial bound, if for every incorrect witness x, and every pair (r, r′) ∈
Fm
2 × Fm
3 , the probability over a random permutation π that x satisﬁes the fol-
lowing equations:
– v′ = z ⊙(1 −π(r′)) + (1 −z) ⊙π(r′) with z = π(r) ⊕v, and v = Ax
– Bv′ = y
is upper-bounded by p.
We begin by making a few observations. As also noted in [23], for all possible
combinations of r, r′, the eﬀect of the share conversion step can be mapped to
one of three diﬀerent actions:
– Identity (copy): v′
i = vi, whenever ri = r′
i.
– Flip (ﬂip): v′
i = 1 ⊕vi, whenever r′
i ∈{0, 1} ∧ri ̸= r′
i
– Constant 2 (const2): v′
i = 2, whenever r′
i = 2.
A malicious adversary who does not use a valid witness x will arrive at a v such
that Bv ̸= y. Therefore, the only way to satisfy Bv′ = y is to modify enough
positions of v, to make it a codeword. Since we permute the randomness used,
the actions chosen by the adversary are permuted before being used. Intuitively,
the larger the number of ﬂips, the lower the probability that a permutation aligns
the ﬂips with the positions that need to be modiﬁed.
We begin with the observation that B can be viewed as the parity-check
matrix of a random linear code where instead of checking whether the party is
0, we check that it is y. Therefore, Bv′ = y if and only if v′ a codeword. Because B
is a random linear code, it has good distance with high probability. Therefore, the

Improved Alternating-Moduli PRFs and Post-quantum Signatures
295
possible values of v′ are suﬃciently spread out. Suppose the minimum number
of ﬂip and const2 operations required to reach a particular word v′ from v are
δ1 and δ2 respectively. Then the number of permutations that map v to v′
is given by (m −δ1 −δ2)! δ1! δ2! ≤(m −δ)! δ!, where δ = δ1 + δ2. Over the
choice of permutations, the probability that the adversary successfully lands on
a particular word is upper bounded by 1/
m
δ

. Thus, if we can upper bound the
number of codewords, at a distance δ from v, and take a union bound over all
of them, we obtain the adversary’s probability of successfully cheating using a
conﬁguration with δ modiﬁcations.
Few ﬂips (0 < δ < d/2). If the minimum distance of B is d, then within any
hamming ball of radius < d/2, there is at most one codeword. Thus, if the
adversary modiﬁes fewer than d/2 positions, there is at most one codeword that
satisﬁes Bv′ = y.
Many ﬂips (d/2 ≤δ ≤m). This case is more tricky because there are now
(potentially) many codewords on the hamming ball of radius δ. It is easy to
see that the total number of words on the hamming ball is
m
δ

. However, any
codeword is at least a distance d away from any other codeword. Therefore,
for every codeword that we try to ﬁt on the hamming ball, there are some
number of words adjacent to this codeword that cannot also be a codeword.
Formally, this set of adjacent words can be described as Bδ = {c | ΔH(v′, c) ≤
d ∧ΔH(v, c) = δ}. Without loss of generality, we can choose v to be the origin
{0}m and v′ = {0}m−δ∥{1}δ1∥{2}δ2, where δ1 + δ2 = δ. The description of Bδ
can be simpliﬁed as Bδ = {c | Wt(c) = δ ∧Wt(c−v′) ≤d}. We can now compute
a lowerbound on |Bδ| and hence an upperbound on Cδ, the number of codewords
at a distance δ. Observe that we enumerate over words in Bδ by ﬁrst choosing
an α ≤min(d/2, δ, m −δ) subset of the 0 positions that will be ﬂipped to either
1 or 2 and then restoring the weight to δ by zero-ing out an α sized subset of
the 1/2 positions. In addition, one can ﬂip the 1/2 positions to 2/1, in each of
the above conﬁgurations.
|Bδ| ≥
min(d/2,δ,m−δ)

α=0
m −δ
α
δ
α

2α
⎛
⎝
min(d−2α,δ−α)

β=1
δ −α
β
⎞
⎠,
(1)
Therefore, Cδ = ⌈
m
δ

/|Bδ|⌉is an upperbound on the number of codewords on
the hamming ball of radius δ. To ﬁnish the argument, we simply take a union
bound over all the codewords on the hamming ball to obtain an upperbound
on the probability of successfully landing on some codeword, p2 ≤Cδ/
m
δ

. By
explicitly plotting the combinatorial bound for the parameters of the AM-OWF,
we can see that |Bδ| >
m
δ

, in the regime where δ < d/2 and δ > m −d/2.7
In otherwords, a single code word and it’s adjacent words are suﬃcient to cover
the entire hamming ball. This is illustrated in Fig. 5 of [5].
7 In fact, there is only one codeword on a hamming ball at distance δ > m −d∗for
some d∗> d/2, as seen in Fig. 5 of [5].

296
N. Alamati et al.
Anti-Solution. Observe that if the adversary found an x such that B(1⊕Ax) = y,
then they could chose all operations to be ﬂip,8 and succeed every single time.
However, from Lemma 4, we know that this is as hard as the OWF game itself.
Looking ahead, when we build a zero-knowledge proof of knowledge of a pre-
image of the AM-OWF, we actually only achieve a weakened notion of knowledge
soundness that extracts either a pre-image or an anti-solution. Since we have
show that both these problems are hard, it suﬃces to compile our MPCitH
protocol to a signature scheme. Similar to [23], if we further relax the soundness
notion to an appropriately deﬁned approximate notion, where the extractor is
able to ﬁnd an x such that B(Ax) = v, and there exists a v′ such that Bv′ = y
and ΔH(v, v′) ≤f for an appropriately chosen f. By appealing to Lemma 5, we
know that for f = O(1), this problem is also hard, thus in each parallel repetition
of the MPCitH protocol, the chance of the adversary cheating is smaller, thereby
requiring fewer repetitions.
6
Post-quantum Signature
We use the MPC-in-the-head framework [46] and instantiate it with the
alternating-moduli OWF proposed in [27], which is in turn based on [18]. Instead
of using a generic compiler such as [49], we aim to compute the same circuit but
use a bespoke MPC protocol, tailored to the AM-OWF, allowing us to shrink
the size by 2-3×, when compared to [27].
Overview. Our MPC protocol is quite simple and proceeds as follows. The N
parties start with an additive sharing of x and can locally compute Ax. They
then engage in a share conversion procedure to convert shares of v = Ax to
shares of v′ ∈Fm
3 . We do this by using pre-processed randomness of the form
(r2, r3), where r ∈Fm
2 . To convert the shares, parties mask shares of x with
shares of r in F2, reconstruct x+r, and then compute v′3 = v ⊙1 −r3 +(1−
v) ⊙r3. The parties ﬁnish the protocol by computing Bv′ and reconstructing
the output.
However, the main diﬃculty is in eﬃciently compiling this MPC protocol to
a publicly veriﬁable proof of knowledge of a pre-image of the AM-OWF. One
can of course use generic techniques such as the KKW [49] or ZKB++ [24]
proof systems as done in [27], and although they produce competitive signature
sizes, they are still larger than more recent post-quantum signatures based on
symmetric-key assumptions [3,14,23,32,48]. We use a technique similar to [23],
to handle the pre-processing for free and design a bespoke MPCitH protocol for
proving knowledge of the pre-image of an AM-OWF.
The high-level idea is as follows. We allow the prover to freely choose (poten-
tially malicious) correlations (r2, r3), but demand that the correlations are
8 The adversary could also choose all operations to be const2, but with overwhelming
probability {2}m is not in the code.

Improved Alternating-Moduli PRFs and Post-quantum Signatures
297
permuted using a uniformly random permutation π that is chosen by the veri-
ﬁer.9 This allows use to completely avoid any checks on the preprocessed correla-
tions, as we are able to bound the probability with which a prover can cheat for
the very speciﬁc circuit we are interested in. The rest of the protocol proceeds
as described above. The proof of security can be found in [5].
The full zero-knowledge proof of knowledge protocol is speciﬁed in Fig. 1. A
signature scheme can then be constructed by applying the Fiat-Shamir heuristic,
where the random coins provided by the veriﬁer is replaced by a random oracle
hash of the protocol transcript and the message being signed.
Our security proof proceeds in a manner very similar to that of [23]. We ﬁrst
note that Kales and Zaverucha [47] showed that there was an attack on signature
schemes using Fiat-Shamir heuristic on 5-round MPC-in-the-Head protocol. The
core observation is that a malicious prover can cleverly resample veriﬁer chal-
lenges in the second and fourth round such that the cost of ﬁnding a forgery is
reduced to
costforge :=
min
τ1,τ2:τ1+τ2=τ
1
τ
i=τ1
τ
i

pi(1 −p)τ−i + N τ
2
(2)
where p is the combinatorial bound. We handle this by making the combinato-
rial bound very small, allowing us to use (approximately) the same number of
repetitions as if this attack did not exist. We now deﬁne an analogous f-strongly
invalid witness and combinatorial bound.
Deﬁnition 10 (f-strongly invalid witness).
We say that x ∈Fn
2 is an
f-weakly valid witness if there exists v′ ∈Fm
3 such that Ax = v, Bv′ = y, and
either ΔH(v, v′) ≤f or ΔH(1 ⊕v, v′) ≤f. If x is not an f-weakly valid witness,
then it is an f-strongly invalid witness.
Deﬁnition 11 (Combinatorial Bound).
A combinatorial bound for the
zero-knowledge proof Fig. 1 with parameters (n, t, m) is a real p = p(t, m, f) ∈
(0, 1) such that for any f-strongly invalid witness x ∈Fn
2, and for any pair of
vectors (r, r′) ∈Fm
2 × Fm
3 ,
Pr
π ←$ Permm[Bv′ = y | v = Ax, v′ = π(r′) + (x ⊕π(r)) ⊙(1 −2π(r′))] ≤p(t, m, f),
where Permm denotes the set of all permutations of {1, . . . , m}.
We are now ready to state the main theorem of soundness for Fig. 1, which we
prove in Section ??.
Theorem 1 Let Commit be a non-interactive commitment scheme and H be a
collision resistant hash function. Let p be a combinatorial bound for the protocol
in Fig. 1. Then the protocol in Fig. 1 is a gap honest-veriﬁer zero-knowledge
argument of knowledge for the relation R such that ((A, B, y), x) ∈R iﬀ
B(Ax) = y. The gap relation R′ is such that ((A, B, y), x) ∈R′ if B(Ax) = y
and x is an f-weakly valid witness. The soundness error of the proof is at most
ε = p + 1/N −p/N.
9 This technique of using shuﬄed correlations was ﬁrst observed in [23].

298
N. Alamati et al.
Fig. 1. A 5 round zero-knowledge proof of knowledge of a pre-image of the AM-OWF.

Improved Alternating-Moduli PRFs and Post-quantum Signatures
299
Proof Size. The prover sends the following to the veriﬁer in the proof of knowl-
edge of the pre-image of the AM-OWF.
– Commitments h and h′ of size 2λ bits each.
– The co-path of i∗of size λ log N bits.
– comi∗of size 2λ bits.
– The N-th shares of x and t of size (n + m log 3) bits.
– z of size m −t bits.
where the h, h′ commitments across all τ parallel executions can be combined
into one commitment of size 2λ each.
Size = 4λ
	

h,h′
+τ

λ(log N)
	



PPRF key
+ 2λ
	

comi∗
+ n
	

xN
+
m −t
	 
 
Compressed z
+ m log 3
	 
 
tN

In Fig. 2, we report sizes of our signature scheme for the parameter sets listed
below. We expect performance similar to [23] during signing/veriﬁcation. We
also note that because our MPC-in-the-Head is based on additive secret sharing,
the hypercube technique from [3] can be used to scale up to a larger number of
parties while remaining computationally eﬃcient.
Parameters. In [27], the authors propose (n, m, t) = (λ, 3.53λ, λ/ log 3). How-
ever, for the relaxed notion of soundness that our zero-knowledge proof achieves,
we actually require that it must be hard to ﬁnd an f-weakly valid witness for the
AM-OWF (Deﬁnition 10). The parameter f is set such that the combinatorial
bound is made as low as possible in order to minimize the impact of the attack
from [47] on the signature size. As well will show later, this in turn determines
the value of n, m, and t. During our search for parameters, we also identiﬁed an
important metric that must be paid attention to when introducing any form of
additional structure in B.
We target 128 bit security with the following parameters a) Fast: (18, 193),
b) Balanced: (13, 1723), and c) Short: (9, 65536) reported as (τ, N), where N
is the number of parties and τ is the number of parallel repetitions. Using Eq. 2,
we set f = 11, and now determine n, m, t such that it is still hard to ﬁnd an
f-weakly valid witness. To ensure that the covering lemma (Lemma 2) still holds
true we ﬁx n = t log 3 + 10.
Choosing t and m. We choose t, m such that if we sample a uniformly random
value, it is not an f-weakly valid witness, with overwhelming probability. The
reason we use this strategy is because there does not seem to be a good way
to choose inputs such that the output of Ax lies close to the codewords of B.
Indeed if there existed a strategy that did better than simply trying at random,
then we can extend the approxOWF reduction (Lemma 5) to the setting where
ΔH(v, v′) ≤f and break the AM-OWF for the parameters proposed in [27].
Thus, when introducing any additional structure in B, it must be the case that
the codewords must be suﬃciently spread out, at least on average.
Coming back to the choice of t and m, a random linear code approaches
the GV bound. Therefore, the number of codewords of B is approximately

300
N. Alamati et al.
Fig. 2. Comparison of signature sizes against state-of-the-art schemes based on
symmetric-key assumptions. For [1], we report the Ia maximum signature sizes of the
hypercube variant. EM-AES refers to AES in Even-Mansour mode.
3m/qHq(d/m)m, where d is the minimum distance of B. The fraction of volume
occupied by all words within hamming distance f of codewords of B is therefore
given by qHq(f/m)m−Hq(d/m)m, which we set to be smaller than 2−128 as this is
also the probability with which a random word is withing hamming distance f
of a codeword. This gives us t = 135, m = 450 and n = 224.
7
PRF Protocol Evaluation
We present our Two-party protocols in Sect. 6 of [5] and summarize them in
Sect. 2. We build on [58] and intend to open source the implementation. The pro-
tocols generate all correlated randomness via Silent OT techniques, see Sect. 6.1
of [5].

Improved Alternating-Moduli PRFs and Post-quantum Signatures
301
We implement our wPRF protocols for the OPRF setting as well as plaintext
inputs and secret shared output. We compare their performance to the alternat-
ing moduli protocol of [27] and our GMW-based implementation of LowMC [9].
Our LowMC implemention employs various optimizations such as transposed
representation, vectorization, and precomputed key schedule. LowMC oﬀers a
variety of parameters that give tradeoﬀs between computational overhead, round
complexity, and number of OTs/OLEs that are required. We parameterize it as
(n, m, k, d, r) ∈{(256, 63, 128, 128, 14), (128, 3, 128, 128, 88)}.
Running times were obtained on a core i7 consumer-grade laptop with 16GB
RAM. Each party is executed on a separate thread with network communication
being simulated, i.e., minimal communication overhead. Given that our proto-
col is 2 rounds, one can easily estimate the cost of network communication by
dividing the communication by the bandwidth plus network latency.
Protocols with the Key OT optimization perform a setup phase where OTs
for each bit of the key are performed. This reusable correlated randomness allows
the parties to compute shares of (k⊙x). Alternatively, our Input-OTs protocol for
multiplying (k ⊙x) requires more OTs but less communication. We implement
two version of our modulus conversion protocol Πot-3→2-conv for the (F3, F2)-
wPRF protocol which uses m F4 VOLE correlations or 2m OT/OLE correlations.
We refer to each as F4-VOLE and F2-OLE respectively. The modulus conversion
for (F2, F3)-wPRF requires just m OT/OLE correlations. The ﬁnal protocol uses
garbling techniques to implement modulus conversion and does not require any
additional OTs beyond the reusable OTs for the key.
OPRF. In Fig. 3 we report the metrics for our protocol when used as an OPRF in
comparison related works. We consider the setting where a succinct setup phase
is performed. During this phase, the key is known but the evaluation points, i.e.,
x, are not. For [27] and our protocols in Fig. 3, we separate the preprocessing p
and online o metrics as p + o.
The most eﬃcient protocol is our OT base (F2, F3)-wPRF protocol (Fig. 3 of
[5]) with the Input-OTs optimization. It requires 7.0 ms per amortized evaluation
and a total of two rounds, including the preprocessing. Excluding the succinct
setup phase (7.0μs & 38 bits), the amortized communication cost is 916 = λ+m+
(m+t) log2(3) bits and 0.4μs for (n, m, t) = (4λ, 2λ, λ/ log2(3)) and λ = 128, see
Sect. 4.3. This protocol requires λ + m OLE/OTs per evaluation which form the
dominant computational cost, 7.0μs compared to 0.4μs of online time. The prior
protocol [27] based on alternating moduli requires an amortized total of 32.9μs
and 1, 317 bits of communication, a 3.7× and 1.4× improvement. Due to a lack
of implementation, for their online time we use their reported plaintext running
time of 6.1μs [27], however, our implementation technique would likely lower this
closer to our 0.4μs. Regardless, the bulk of the running time improvement comes
from our protocol requiring fewer OTs. Moreover, our 128 input OTs are of 4 bit
strings while [27] uses 256 OTs of 256 bit strings. When properly implemented,
this results in an almost 256/4 = 64× faster OT generation due multiplying
smaller vectors with the syndrome decoding matrix.

302
N. Alamati et al.
Fig. 3. Comparison of our distributed wPRF protocols against other OPRF proto-
cols. We consider the setting where multiple (adaptive) evaluations for a ﬁxed key are
performed. r denotes the round complexity and + denotes that additional rounds are
required to set up the protocols. Comm. reports the end-to-end amortized communi-
cation (including any preprocessing) per evaluation in bits.
The lowest communication OPRF protocol is based on DDH [53]. It is
extremely communication-eﬃcient, requiring just two curve elements to be sent.
However, DDH is insecure in the post-quantum setting and, unlike ours, does not
lend itself to secret shared output. Moreover, it requires an order of magnitude
more time which makes it less attractive when performing many evaluations.
However, for a single evaluation DDH [53] remains the best option.
We also consider our (F3, F2)-wPRF but observe that the communication
overhead are worse than our (F2, F3)-wPRF while it remains competitive in terms
of computation when F4-VOLE is used. The communication overhead is due to
requiring disproportionately larger parameters and the mod operation being less
eﬃcient. Finally, we consider the garbling based protocol of Fig. 4 of [5]. This
protocol has the interesting advantage that it only requires OT correlations in
the setup phase where the key is set. In particular, one OT per bit of the key
is performed. All subsequent evaluations of the protocol can be implemented
with only calls to the random oracle. The advantage of this is highlighted when
only a small number of evaluations are performed. In this regime the sublinear
OT protocols have relatively high computational/communication overhead due
to the hidden constants. The communication overhead of this protocol is 215 =
λn + (m + t) log2(3).
OPRF with Shared Output. We now turn our attention to a more detailed
analysis of our wPRFs and related work. For this analysis we will continue to
assume x is known to one party while k is known to the other. The parties will
receive a secret sharing of F(k, x). We report our ﬁndings in Fig. 4. As above,
we divide the running time of the protocol into the time to generate the OT

Improved Alternating-Moduli PRFs and Post-quantum Signatures
303
correlations and the online time. As can be seen in Fig. 4, the main cost is OT
generation, requiring between 15 to 30 times more time than the online phase.
Fig. 4. Comparison of our distributed wPRF protocols with secret shared output
against LowMC [9] when performing q = 220 concurrent evaluations. r denotes the
round complexity excluding a reusable setup. Times reported are amortized per eval-
uation. † denotes estimated running time.
We present several variants of our protocols. As with the OPRF performance
numbers, we observe that our (F2, F3)-wPRF with the Input-OTs optimization
performs the best, requiring a total of 7.97μs and just 38 + 790 bits of online
communication, where the 38 bits of communication is for the OT generation.
The next most eﬃcient protocol is also our (F2, F3)-wPRF but with the Key-
OT optimization which reduces the number of OTs required at the expense of
more communication. However, despite requiring 50% fewer OTs, we observe a
minimal decrease in running time. This is because the Input-OT optimization
makes use of a VOLE correlation for short strings, i.e., 4 bits, while OT/OLE
requires generation of a VOLE correlation for 128 bit strings. When properly
implemented, this essentially translates to a 128/4 = 32× improvement in run-
ning time for the matrix multiply step in the VOLE protocol, which is the main
overhead. As a result, we generally suggest only using the Input-OT optimization
for the (F2, F3)-wPRF.
However, a major drawback of the (F2, F3)-wPRF with secret shared output
is that the output shares and values are mod 3. This is highly non-standard
and if shared output is desired, more post processing would be required. A more
natural (and eﬃcient) option is for the wPRF to naively output the desired
share format, e.g., (F3, F2)-wPRF. We only implement this protocol with the
Key-OT optimization. The protocol requires 0.4μs and between 7 to 14μs of
online and OT generation time, respectively. The protocol requires 1,151 bits of
online communication and 52 bits for OT generation. One could consider using
the Input-OT optimization to lower the communication overhead but this would
require implementing F3 Silent OT/VOLE which has higher computational cost,
approximately 5× by our estimates.

304
N. Alamati et al.
Compared to [27], our protocols perform better in communication, running
time, and the number of OTs used. When compared to LowMC [9], our online
phase is between 7 and 13 times faster. When proﬁling both implementations,
we observe that almost all of the time is spent in the matrix-vector multiplica-
tion routine. Given that [9] requires many more such multiplications, it follows
that their running time should be worse. Additionally, their protocol requires
substantially more OTs/OLEs, a factor between 20 and 3 times depending on
the parameters used.
Acknowledgements. We thank Omar Alrabiah for helpful discussions related to
Error Correcting Codes. We thank Zijie Lu for his contributions to the subﬁeld VOLE
protocol of libOTe [58] which allowed us to benchmark our F4 modulus conversion
protocol. We also thank the anonymous reviewers for their feedback.
Disclaimer. Case studies, comparisons, statistics, research and recommendations are
provided “AS IS” and intended for informational purposes only and should not be relied
upon for operational, marketing, legal, technical, tax, ﬁnancial or other advice. Visa
Inc. neither makes any warranty or representation as to the completeness or accuracy
of the information within this document, nor assumes any liability or responsibility
that may result from reliance on such information. The Information contained herein
is not intended as investment or legal advice, and readers are encouraged to seek the
advice of a competent professional where such advice is required.
These materials and best practice recommendations are provided for informational
purposes only and should not be relied upon for marketing, legal, regulatory or other
advice. Recommended marketing materials should be independently evaluated in light
of your speciﬁc business needs and any applicable laws and regulations. Visa is not
responsible for your use of the marketing materials, best practice recommendations, or
other information, including errors of any kind, contained in this document.
References
1. Adj, G., et al.: MiRitH. Tech. rep., National Institute of Standards and Technology
(2023). https://csrc.nist.gov/csrc/media/Projects/pqc-dig-sig/documents/round-
1/spec-ﬁles/MiRitH spec-web.pdf
2. Advanced Encryption Standard (AES). National Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology, NIST FIPS PUB 197, U.S. Department of Commerce (2001)
3. Aguilar Melchor, C., Gama, N., Howe, J., H¨ulsing, A., Joseph, D., Yue, D.:
The return of the SDitH, pp. 564–596 (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-
30589-4 20
4. Akavia, A., Bogdanov, A., Guo, S., Kamath, A., Rosen, A.: Candidate weak pseu-
dorandom functions in AC0 o MOD2, pp. 251–260 (2014).https://doi.org/10.1145/
2554797.2554821
5. Alamati, N., Policharla, G.V., Raghuraman, S., Rindal, P.: Improved alternat-
ing moduli PRFs and post-quantum signatures (full version). Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Paper 2024/582 (2024). https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/582
6. Albrecht, M.R., Davidson, A., Deo, A., Gardham, D.: Crypto dark matter on the
torus: oblivious PRFs from shallow PRFs and FHE. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Report 2023/232 (2023). https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/232

Improved Alternating-Moduli PRFs and Post-quantum Signatures
305
7. Albrecht, M.R., Davidson, A., Deo, A., Smart, N.P.: Round-optimal veriﬁable
oblivious pseudorandom functions from ideal lattices, pp. 261–289 (2021). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-75248-4 10
8. Albrecht, M.R., et al.: Feistel structures for MPC, and more, pp. 151–171 (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-29962-0 8
9. Albrecht, M.R., Rechberger, C., Schneider, T., Tiessen, T., Zohner, M.: Ciphers
for MPC and FHE, pp. 430–454 (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-46800-
5 17
10. Araki, T., Furukawa, J., Lindell, Y., Nof, A., Ohara, K.: High-throughput semi-
honest secure three-party computation with an honest majority, pp. 805–817
(2016). https://doi.org/10.1145/2976749.2978331
11. Badrinarayanan, S., Das, S., Garimella, G., Raghuraman, S., Rindal, P.: Secret-
shared joins with multiplicity from aggregation trees, pp. 209–222 (2022). https://
doi.org/10.1145/3548606.3560670
12. Banerjee, A., Peikert, C., Rosen, A.: Pseudorandom functions and lattices. In:
Pointcheval, D., Johansson, T. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT
2012 - 31st Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applications of
Cryptographic Techniques, Cambridge, UK, April 15-19, 2012. Proceedings. Lec-
ture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 7237, pp. 719–737. Springer (2012). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-29011-4 42
13. Basso, A.: A post-quantum round-optimal oblivious PRF from isogenies. Cryptol-
ogy ePrint Archive, Report 2023/225 (2023). https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/225
14. Baum, C., et al.: Publicly veriﬁable zero-knowledge and post-quantum signatures
from VOLE-in-the-head. In: Handschuh, H., Lysyanskaya, A. (eds.) Advances in
Cryptology – CRYPTO 2023: 43rd Annual International Cryptology Conference,
CRYPTO 2023, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August 20–24, 2023, Proceedings, Part
V, pp. 581–615. Springer Nature Switzerland, Cham (2023). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-031-38554-4 19
15. Becker, A., Coron, J.S., Joux, A.: Improved generic algorithms for hard knapsacks,
pp. 364–385 (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-20465-4 21
16. Biham, E., Shamir, A.: Diﬀerential cryptanalysis of DES-like cryptosystems 4(1),
3–72 (1991). https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00630563
17. Blum, M., Micali, S.: How to generate cryptographically strong sequences of pseudo
random bits, pp. 112–117 (1982). https://doi.org/10.1109/SFCS.1982.72
18. Boneh, D., Ishai, Y., Passel`egue, A., Sahai, A., Wu, D.J.: Exploring crypto dark
matter: new simple PRF candidates and their applications, pp. 699–729 (2018).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-03810-6 25
19. Boneh, D., Kogan, D., Woo, K.: Oblivious pseudorandom functions from isogenies,
pp. 520–550 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-64834-3 18
20. Bonnetain, X., Bricout, R., Schrottenloher, A., Shen, Y.: Improved classical and
quantum algorithms for subset-sum, pp. 633–666 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-64834-3 22
21. Boyle, E., Couteau, G., Gilboa, N., Ishai, Y., Kohl, L., Rindal, P., Scholl, P.:
Eﬃcient two-round OT extension and silent non-interactive secure computation,
pp. 291–308 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1145/3319535.3354255
22. Boyle, E., Couteau, G., Gilboa, N., Ishai, Y., Kohl, L., Scholl, P.: Eﬃcient pseudo-
random correlation generators: silent OT extension and more, pp. 489–518 (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-26954-8 16
23. Carozza, E., Couteau, G., Joux, A.: Short signatures from regular syndrome decod-
ing in the head, pp. 532–563 (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-30589-4 19

306
N. Alamati et al.
24. Chase, M., et al.: Post-quantum zero-knowledge and signatures from symmetric-
key primitives, pp. 1825–1842 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1145/3133956.3133997
25. Chaum, D.: Blind signatures for untraceable payments, pp. 199–203 (1982)
26. Cheon, J.H., Cho, W., Kim, J.H., Kim, J.: Adventures in crypto dark matter:
attacks and ﬁxes for weak pseudorandom functions, pp. 739–760 (2021). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-75248-4 26
27. Dinur, I., Goldfeder, S., Halevi, T., Ishai, Y., Kelkar, M., Sharma, V., Zaverucha,
G.: MPC-friendly symmetric cryptography from alternating moduli: candidates,
protocols, and applications, pp. 517–547 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-84259-8 18
28. Dobraunig, C., et al.: Rasta: a cipher with low ANDdepth and few ANDs per bit,
pp. 662–692 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-96884-1 22
29. Dobraunig, C., Grassi, L., Guinet, A., Kuijsters, D.: Ciminion: symmetric encryp-
tion based on Toﬀoli-gates over large ﬁnite ﬁelds. In: Canteaut, A., Standaert, F.-X.
(eds.) Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT 2021: 40th Annual International
Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques, Zagreb,
Croatia, October 17–21, 2021, Proceedings, Part II, pp. 3–34. Springer Interna-
tional Publishing, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-77886-6 1
30. Dobraunig, C., Kales, D., Rechberger, C., Schofnegger, M., Zaverucha, G.: Shorter
signatures based on tailor-made minimalist symmetric-key crypto. In: Yin, H.,
Stavrou, A., Cremers, C., Shi, E. (eds.) Proceedings of the 2022 ACM SIGSAC
Conference on Computer and Communications Security, CCS 2022, Los Angeles,
CA, USA, November 7-11, 2022, pp. 843–857. ACM (2022). https://doi.org/10.
1145/3548606.3559353
31. Esgin, M.F., Steinfeld, R., Zhao, R.K.: MatRiCT+: more eﬃcient post-quantum
private blockchain payments, pp. 1281–1298 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1109/
SP46214.2022.9833655
32. Feneuil, T., Joux, A., Rivain, M.: Syndrome decoding in the head: shorter sig-
natures from zero-knowledge proofs, pp. 541–572 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-031-15979-4 19
33. Freedman, M.J., Ishai, Y., Pinkas, B., Reingold, O.: Keyword search and oblivious
pseudorandom functions, pp. 303–324 (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-
30576-7 17
34. Goel, A., Green, M., Hall-Andersen, M., Kaptchuk, G.: Eﬃcient set membership
proofs using MPC-in-the-head. 2022(2), 304–324 (2022). https://doi.org/10.2478/
popets-2022-0047
35. Goldreich, O., Goldwasser, S., Micali, S.: How to construct random functions
(extended abstract), pp. 464–479 (1984). https://doi.org/10.1109/SFCS.1984.
715949
36. Grassi, L., Øygarden, M., Schofnegger, M., Walch, R.: From farfalle to MEGA-
FONO via Ciminion: the PRF hydra for MPC applications. In: Hazay, C., Stam,
M. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT 2023 - 42nd Annual Interna-
tional Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques,
Lyon, France, April 23-27, 2023, Proceedings, Part IV. Lecture Notes in Computer
Science, vol. 14007, pp. 255–286. Springer (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
031-30634-1 9
37. Grassi, L., Rechberger, C., Rotaru, D., Scholl, P., Smart, N.P.: MPC-friendly
symmetric key primitives, pp. 430–443 (2016). https://doi.org/10.1145/2976749.
2978332
38. Guruswami, V., Rudra, A., Sudan, M.: Essential coding theory. http://www.cse.
buﬀalo.edu/atri/courses/coding-theory/book2(1) (2012)

Improved Alternating-Moduli PRFs and Post-quantum Signatures
307
39. H⊕stad, J., Impagliazzo, R., Levin, L.A., Luby, M.: A pseudorandom generator
from any one-way function. SIAM J. Comput. 28(4), 1364–1396 (1999)
40. Heimberger, L., Hennerbichler, T., Meisingseth, F., Ramacher, S., Rechberger, C.:
OPRFs from isogenies: designs and analysis. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper
2023/639 (2023). https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/639
41. Hoﬀstein, J., Pipher, J., Silverman, J.H.: NTRU: a ring-based public key cryptosys-
tem. In: Buhler, J.P. (ed.) Algorithmic Number Theory, pp. 267–288. Springer,
Berlin, Heidelberg (1998). https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0054868
42. Howgrave-Graham, N., Joux, A.: New generic algorithms for hard knapsacks, pp.
235–256 (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-13190-5 12
43. Hulsing, A., et al.: SPHINCS+. Tech. rep., National Institute of Standards and
Technology (2022). https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/post-quantum-cryptography/
selected-algorithms-2022
44. Ishai, Y., Kelkar, M., Narayanan, V., Zafar, L.: One-message secure reductions:
On the cost of converting correlations. In: Handschuh, H., Lysyanskaya, A. (eds.)
Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2023, pp. 515–547. Springer Nature Switzer-
land, Cham (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-38557-5 17
45. Ishai, Y., Kilian, J., Nissim, K., Petrank, E.: Extending oblivious transfers eﬃ-
ciently, pp. 145–161 (2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-45146-4 9
46. Ishai, Y., Kushilevitz, E., Ostrovsky, R., Sahai, A.: Zero-knowledge from secure
multiparty computation, pp. 21–30 (2007). https://doi.org/10.1145/1250790.
1250794
47. Kales, D., Zaverucha, G.: An attack on some signature schemes constructed from
ﬁve-pass identiﬁcation schemes, pp. 3–22 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-65411-5 1
48. Kales, D., Zaverucha, G.: Eﬃcient lifting for shorter zero-knowledge proofs and
post-quantum signatures. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2022/588 (2022).
https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/588
49. Katz, J., Kolesnikov, V., Wang, X.: Improved non-interactive zero knowledge with
applications to post-quantum signatures, pp. 525–537 (2018). https://doi.org/10.
1145/3243734.3243805
50. Kim, S., et al.: Aim: symmetric primitive for shorter signatures with stronger
security. In: Proceedings of the 2023 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and
Communications Security, pp. 401–415 (2023)
51. Levin, L.A.: One-way functions and pseudorandom generators, pp. 363–365 (1985).
https://doi.org/10.1145/22145.22185
52. Lyubashevsky, V., Nguyen, N.K., Seiler, G.: SMILE: set membership from ideal
lattices with applications to ring signatures and conﬁdential transactions, pp. 611–
640 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84245-1 21
53. Meadows, C.A.: A more eﬃcient cryptographic matchmaking protocol for use in the
absence of a continuously available third party. In: IEEE Symposium on Security
and Privacy, pp. 134–137. IEEE Computer Society (1986)
54. Micali, S., Rabin, M.O., Vadhan, S.P.: Veriﬁable random functions, pp. 120–130
(1999). https://doi.org/10.1109/SFFCS.1999.814584
55. Micciancio, D., Mol, P.: Pseudorandom knapsacks and the sample complexity of
LWE search-to-decision reductions, pp. 465–484 (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-642-22792-9 26
56. Mohassel, P., Rindal, P., Rosulek, M.: Fast database joins and PSI for secret shared
data, pp. 1271–1287 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1145/3372297.3423358
57. Naor, M., Reingold, O.: Number-theoretic constructions of eﬃcient pseudo-random
functions, pp. 458–467 (1997). https://doi.org/10.1109/SFCS.1997.646134

308
N. Alamati et al.
58. Peter Rindal, L.R.: osu-crypto/libOTe: an eﬃcient, portable, and easy to use Obliv-
ious Transfer Library. https://github.com/osu-crypto/libOTe
59. Raghuraman, S., Rindal, P., Tanguy, T.: Expand-convolute codes for pseudoran-
dom correlation generators from LPN. In: Handschuh, H., Lysyanskaya, A. (eds.)
Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2023, pp. 602–632. Springer Nature Switzer-
land, Cham (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-38551-3 19
60. Razborov, A.A.: Lower bounds on the size of bounded depth circuits over a com-
plete basis with logical addition. Math. Notes Acad. Sci. USSR 41(4), 333–338
(1987)
61. Rivest, R.L., Shamir, A., Tauman, Y.: How to leak a secret, pp. 552–565 (2001).
https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-45682-1 32
62. Roy, L.: SoftSpokenOT: quieter OT extension from small-ﬁeld silent VOLE in the
minicrypt model, pp. 657–687 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15802-
5 23
63. Seres, I.A., Horv´ath, M., Burcsi, P.: The legendre pseudorandom function as a
multivariate quadratic cryptosystem: security and applications. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Report 2021/182 (2021). https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/182
64. Smolensky, R.: Algebraic methods in the theory of lower bounds for Boolean circuit
complexity. In: Proceedings of the Nineteenth Annual ACM Symposium on Theory
of Computing, pp. 77–82 (1987)
65. Yao, A.C.C.: Theory and applications of trapdoor functions (extended abstract),
pp. 80–91 (1982). https://doi.org/10.1109/SFCS.1982.45

