k-SUM in the Sparse Regime: Complexity
and Applications
Shweta Agrawal1, Sagnik Saha2, Nikolaj I. Schwartzbach3
,
Akhil Vanukuri1
, and Prashant Nalini Vasudevan4(B)
1 Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Chennai, India
shweta.a@cse.iitm.ac.in
2 Computer Science Department, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, USA
3 CIFRA Institute, Bocconi University, Milan, Italy
4 Department of Computer Science, National University of Singapore, Singapore,
Singapore
prashant@comp.nus.edu.sg
Abstract. In the average-case k-SUM problem, given r integers chosen
uniformly at random from {0, . . . , M −1}, the objective is to ﬁnd a “solu-
tion” set of k numbers that sum to 0 modulo M. In the dense regime
of M ≤rk, where solutions exist with high probability, the complexity
of these problems is well understood. Much less is known in the sparse
regime of M ≫rk, where solutions are unlikely to exist.
Motivated by applications to cryptography, we initiate the study of the
sparse regime for k-SUM and its variant k-XOR, especially their planted
versions, where a random solution is planted in a randomly generated
instance and has to be recovered. We provide evidence for the hard-
ness of these problems and show applications to constructing public-key
encryption schemes. Our contributions are summarized below.
Complexity. We study the complexity of these problems in the sparse
regime and show:
• Conditional Lower Bounds: Assuming established conjectures
about the hardness of average-case (non-planted) k-SUM/k-
XOR when M
= rk, we provide non-trivial lower bounds
on the running time of algorithms for planted k-SUM when
rk ≤M ≤r2k.
S. Agrawal—This work was supported in part by the DST “Swarnajayanti” fellowship,
Cybersecurity Center of Excellence, IIT Madras, National Blockchain Project and the
Algorand Centres of Excellence programme managed by Algorand Foundation.
N. I. Schwartzbach—Supported by the European Research Council (ERC) under the
European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme (Grant agreement
No. 101019547). Part of this work was done while Nikolaj was a Ph.D. student at Aarhus
University and was funded by VILLUM FONDEN under the Villum Kann Rasmussen
Annual Award in Science and Technology under grant agreement no 17911.
P. N. Vasudevan—Supported by the National Research Foundation, Singapore, under
its NRF Fellowship programme, award no. NRF-NRFF14-2022-0010. Part of the work
was done when Sagnik and Nikolaj were visiting the National University of Singapore,
and were also supported by this award.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2024
L. Reyzin and D. Stebila (Eds.): CRYPTO 2024, LNCS 14921, pp. 315–351, 2024.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-68379-4_10

316
S. Agrawal et al.
• Hardness Ampliﬁcation: We show that for any M ≥rk, if an
algorithm running in time T solves planted k-SUM/k-XOR with
success probability Ω(1/polylog(r)), then there is an algorithm
running in time 
O(T) that solves it with probability (1 −o(1)).
This enables us to use even relatively mild hardness of k-SUM/k-
XOR in our cryptographic constructions. Our primary technical
contribution is the proof of this result, which departs signiﬁ-
cantly from existing approaches to hardness ampliﬁcation.
• New Reductions and Algorithms. We provide reductions for k-
SUM/k-XOR from search to decision, as well as worst-case and
average-case reductions to the Subset Sum problem from k-
SUM. Additionally, we present a new algorithm for average-case
k-XOR that is faster than known worst-case algorithms at low
densities.
Applications. We show that by additionally assuming mild hardness
of k-XOR, we can construct Public Key Encryption (PKE) from a
weaker variant of the Learning Parity with Noise (LPN) problem
than was known before. In particular, such LPN hardness does not
appear to imply PKE on its own – this suggests that k-XOR/k-SUM
can be used to bridge “minicrypt” and “cryptomania” in some cases.
We are optimistic that this technique will ﬁnd other applications in
cryptography
Keywords: k-SUM · hardness ampliﬁcation · public key encryption
1
Introduction
In the k-SUM problem, given a set of r numbers from {0, . . . , M −1}, the task
is to ﬁnd a set of k of them that sum to 0 (modulo M), if such a set exists.1
This problem has been central to studying the complexity of important prob-
lems in a variety of domains such as computational geometry, data structures
and graph theory [3,13,33,51,61,65]. It has found several applications in crypt-
analysis [14,67], and is essentially a parametrized version of the Subset Sum
problem. As we shall see, variants of this problem are also closely related to
problems such as the Short Integer Solution (SIS) problem and Learning Par-
ity with Noise (LPN) that have found widespread use in cryptography. In this
work, motivated by applications to cryptographic constructions, we study the
average-case complexity of this problem.
Worst-Case Complexity of k-SUM. The na¨ıve algorithm of iterating
through all k-sets takes time O(rk) to solve k-SUM. The “meet-in-the-middle”
algorithm that computes the sums of all ⌈k/2⌉-sets and looks for collisions runs
in time 
O(r⌈k/2⌉) [42]. Better algorithms are known that are faster than r⌈k/2⌉
1 The k-SUM problem is usually deﬁned with the sum being over the integers. These
variants are equivalent in complexity in the worst-case, and also in the average-case
in certain regimes of parameters (see [20,30]).

k-SUM in the Sparse Regime: Complexity and Applications
317
by a few polylog factors [12,24,39]. There are also FFT-based algorithms that
run in time 
O(M + r) [21,48], which is faster if M ≪r⌈k/2⌉.
The 3-SUM hypothesis of Gajentaan and Overmars [33] states that it is
not possible to do much better than the above – that any algorithm for the
3-SUM problem in general takes time at least r2−o(1). This hypothesis has been
instrumental in establishing conditional lower bounds on the complexities of
a variety of interesting problems. More generally, it is conjectured that any
algorithm for k-SUM takes time at least r⌈k/2⌉−o(1) [2].
Average-Case k-SUM. In the average-case k-SUM problem, the r numbers
in the input are each chosen uniformly at random from {0, . . . , M −1}. The
characteristics of the problem now change depending on the relative sizes of M,
r, and k. In analogy to Subset Sum [53], we deﬁne the density of average-case
k-SUM as the following ratio:
Δ =
log
r
k

log M .
When this density Δ is 1, the expected number of k-SUM solutions in an instance
is also 1. In general, the expected number of solutions is approximately rk (1−1/Δ).
For values of Δ larger than 1 (the dense regime), this number is polynomial in
r, and for Δ smaller than 1 (the sparse regime), the number of solutions is
vanishing with r. When k is small, the density can be approximated by the
ratio (k log r/ log M) and we will use this simpliﬁcation in the remainder of this
paper2.
In the dense regime, several non-trivial algorithms are known for average-case
k-SUM that are more eﬃcient than the worst-case algorithms. For instance, the
“birthday” algorithm that computes the sum of random sets of k/2 numbers and
looks for collisions runs in expected time O(
√
M) = O(rk/(2Δ)) which is rO(1)
for densities larger than k. For densities larger than ≈k/(1 + log2 k), Wagner’s
k-tree algorithm [67] solves the problem in time 
O(r).3
However, at density Δ = 1, when there is only a single solution in expectation,
no algorithms are known that outperform the best worst-case algorithms. The
average-case k-SUM problem at this density is believed to be as hard as the
worst-case variant, although no worst-case to average-case reduction is currently
known [30,54,63].
Conjecture 1.1 (Average-Case k-SUM Conjecture). Any algorithm for average-
case k-SUM at density 1 with constant probability of success has running time
at least Ω

r⌈k/2⌉−o(1)
.
Building on this conjecture, Dinur, Keller and Klein [30] showed lower bounds
on the complexity of k-SUM at densities in the range (1, 2). In particular, their
2 Please see Remark 2.1 for a discussion of the accuracy of this approximation.
3 This algorithm was used by Wagner to perform non-trivial attacks on a variety of
cryptosystems.

318
S. Agrawal et al.
results implied that Wagner’s algorithm is optimal for k = 3, 4, and 5, for certain
densities in this range. LaVigne, Lincoln and Williams [54] used a decision version
of a weaker form of this conjecture to construct ﬁne-grained One-Way Functions.
The Sparse Regime. In this work, we investigate the average-case complexity
of k-SUM at densities at most 1, where random instances are unlikely to have
solutions. Unlike the dense regime, i.e. with densities 1 and higher [20,30,54,67],
very little is known about the complexity of average-case k-SUM in the sparse
regime. Addressing this basic gap in our understanding of k-SUM is the goal of
the present work.
In the sparse regime where solutions are unlikely, a meaningful variant of the
k-SUM problem is the planted k-SUM problem – here a randomly chosen set of
k numbers that sum to 0 is planted at random locations in a random k-SUM
instance. There are two problems that arise naturally in this setting:
– The planted search k-SUM problem is to recover a k-SUM solution given such
an instance (at low densities, with high probability, the planted solution is
the only one).
– The planted decision k-SUM problem is to distinguish a random instance with
a planted solution from a random instance without a planted solution.
Even aside from their applications to cryptography, these are interesting and
natural problems that warrant study in their own right.
1.1
Our Results
In this work, we initiate the study of k-SUM and its variants, namely the k-
XOR and vector k-SUM problems, in the sparse regime. In vector k-SUM, the
elements in the input are vectors from Zm
q for some m, and addition is done over
this vector space; k-XOR is the special case of q = 2. Our results are described
below. Please also see Fig. 2 for a summary.
Applications to PKE. Towards motivating the study of these problems in
the sparse average-case setting, we demonstrate an application to constructing
Public-Key Encryption (PKE) schemes. Speciﬁcally, we show that somewhat
mild hardness of planted search k-XOR at suﬃciently low densities (together
with our hardness ampliﬁcation procedure) can be used to construct PKE assum-
ing weaker hardness of the Learning Parity with Noise (LPN) problem than was
known before. Previously, it has been shown how to construct PKE assuming
either that LPN with m-bit secrets at noise rate O(1/√m) is hard for poly(m)-
time algorithms [6], or that LPN with constant noise rate is hard for 2m0.5-time
algorithms [69]. In contrast, adding k-XOR enables us to use just 2mc hardness
(for any constant c > 0) of LPN with constant noise rate.
Intriguingly, the level of hardness needed from LPN in our construction does
not appear to imply public-key encryption by itself. This suggests the possibility

k-SUM in the Sparse Regime: Complexity and Applications
319
of the k-SUM family of problems serving as a bridge for problems from the world
of “Minicrypt” (where one way functions exist) to the world of “Cryptomania”
(where public-key encryption exists)—see also [44]. Qualitatively, our technique
allows to interpret the k-SUM family of problems as a computational variant of
the famous Leftover Hash Lemma (LHL) [43], which provides statistical guar-
antees and is used ubiquitously in cryptography [11]4. Looking ahead, this can
help to not only weaken the required hardness from the “core” problem being
used in the cryptographic construction, but may also improve overall eﬃciency
of the construction. We demonstrate this phenomenon in two PKE schemes,
one based on LPN and another (with lesser improvement) based on its large-
ﬁeld analog Learning With Errors (LWE) [64]. Various problems related to the
k-SUM family that provide similar computational versions of LHL have conse-
quently found widespread use in cryptography, such as Subset Sum [57], Short
Integer Solution [56], and variants of k-XOR with bounded but super-constant
values of k [6]. Please see Sect. 3 and the full version [4] for details.
Theorem 1.1 (Theorem 3.1, Sect. 3). Suppose that constant-noise LPN with
an m-bit secret is 2mc-hard for some constant c, and that any algorithm for
planted-search k-XOR at densities Δ = 1/polylog(r) with success probability
(1 −o(1/ log r)) has running time at least r⌈k/2⌉−o(1). Then, there is a PKE
scheme which is secure against adversaries running in time r⌈k/2⌉−Ω(1).
Complexity. Beginning our study of the average-case complexity of these prob-
lems, we provide conditional lower bounds on the complexity of the planted
k-SUM problem in the sparse regime via the following theorem, assuming the
hardness of the regular (non-planted) k-SUM problem at density 1.
Theorem 1.2 (Theorem 4.3, Sect. 4.2).
Assuming the average-case k-
SUM conjecture (Conjecture 1.1), any algorithm that solves planted search k-
SUM at density Δ ∈
 1
2, 1

with constant success probability has to take time
Ω

rk (1−
1
2Δ)−o(1)	
. This generalizes to the k-SUM problem deﬁned over any
abelian group.
To establish the above, we ﬁrst show a reduction from non-planted search k-
SUM to planted search k-SUM at density 1. Then, for any Δ ∈(1/2, 1), we reduce
planted k-SUM at density 1 to planted k-SUM at density Δ. We demonstrate
two such reductions, one of which additionally lets us show lower bounds for
4 Technically, we are using k-XOR as a substitute for a speciﬁc strong extractor –
the family of all linear functions Ax + b. Indeed, LHL is more general – it says
any pairwise independent hash family is a strong extractor, but we only replace this
speciﬁc family with k-SUM. However, this family suﬃces for most applications in
cryptography.

320
S. Agrawal et al.
k-SUM assuming the hardness of k′-SUM for a diﬀerent k′. Please see Sects. 4.1
and 4.2 for details. Following these lower bounds, our current understanding of
the complexity of average-case k-SUM at various densities is depicted in Fig. 1.
We then connect the complexity of the search k-SUM problem to related
problems such as the subset sum problem and the decision variant of the k-SUM
problem. We show an average-case reduction from very sparse planted k-SUM
over integers to the average-case subset sum problem at low densities, as well
as a search-to-decision reduction for planted k-SUM that, in particular, carries
over the above conditional lower bounds to the decision k-SUM problem. Please
see Sects. 4.3 and 4.4 for details.
Finally, we show an algorithm for the k-XOR problem that, at densities
less than O(1/√r), is faster than the best known worst-case algorithms. More
precisely, we show that the planted search k-XOR problem can be solved in time

O

rk  1
Δ
3−k	
for any Δ ≥1/r. Please see Sect. 4.5 for details.
Δ
log T
k log r
Density
Runtime exponent
0
1
2
1
4
3
2
1
2
0
k-SUM conjecture
Worst-case algorithm
Birthday algorithm
Wagner 4-tree algorithm
Dinur-Keller-Klein lower bound
Our lower bound (Theorem 1.2)
Fig. 1. Landscape of the known bounds on the complexity of average-case (planted)
k-SUM problems as k →∞(except for the Wagner algorithm, which is depicted for
k = 4). The x-axis represents the density Δ = k log r
m
of the instances, and the y-axis
represents the runtime T, with y =
log T
k log r . More speciﬁcally, the y-axis is the exponent
of the runtime, such that if the runtime of an algorithm at density Δ is rkα, we plot
the point (Δ, α). We have omitted the algorithm that works at density O(log(r)/r2)
presented in Sect. 4.4 since its runtime is independent of k. Similarly, we have omitted
the algorithm for k-XOR that works at density O(1/r0.5+ϵ) presented in Sect. 4.5.

k-SUM in the Sparse Regime: Complexity and Applications
321
Hardness Ampliﬁcation. For the k-SUM and vector k-SUM problems (includ-
ing k-XOR) at density 1 or less, we show that the success probability of an
algorithm for the planted search problem can be ampliﬁed. We do this using a
random walk over instances that preserves the planted solution (with non-trivial
probability) and is also rapidly mixing. This ampliﬁcation also extends to k-SUM
over general groups, albeit for density slightly smaller than 1.
Theorem 1.3 (Theorems 5.2 and 5.3, Sect. 5). At any density Ω

1
polylog(r)
	
≤Δ ≤1, for any constant k ≥3, suppose there is an algorithm that runs in time
T and solves planted search k-SUM (resp. vector k-SUM) with success probability
Ω(1/polylog(r)). Then, there is an algorithm that runs in time 
O (T) and solves
planted search k-SUM (resp. vector k-SUM) at the same density with success
probability

1 −o

1
log r
		
.
The above also extends to super-constant values of k, with some additional
loss in the running time. This hardness ampliﬁcation, together with a search-
to-decision reduction, enables us to use relatively mild hardness of k-SUM (or
its variants) in applications – for instance in the public key encryption scheme
we construct, it is suﬃcient for us to assume hardness of solving search k-XOR
with success probability (1−o(1/ log r)), see Lemma 3.1 for details. Without the
hardness ampliﬁcation, we would have had to assume the hardness of solving it
with some Ω(1) success probability.
1.2
Technical Overview
In this section, we give a high-level overview of some of our results and the
techniques we use to show them.
Public Key Encryption. We start by demonstrating an application of the
planted search k-XOR problem to constructing Public-Key Encryption (PKE).
We construct a PKE scheme whose security is based on the hardness of the
planted search k-XOR problem at low densities together with the hardness of
the Learning Parity with Noise (LPN) problem. The hardness required from
LPN here is weaker than what was previously known to imply PKE. At a high
level, this is possible because the hardness of (decision) k-XOR serves as a com-
putational analogue of the leftover hash lemma – this allows us to set the LPN
parameters to result in public keys that are only computationally close to ran-
dom, rather than statistically close to random, allowing us to weaken the hard-
ness needed from LPN.
In our construction, we simply generate an instance of planted k-XOR and use
the result as the public key, with the location of the planted solution being used
as the secret key. Note that the secret key can be interpreted as a k-sparse vector.
The security parameter is the number r of vectors which must be generated. Such

322
S. Agrawal et al.
Density Δ
1
1
2
1
polylog(r)
1
ro(1)
1
r0.5+ϵ
k log r
r
0
∞
Planted and unplanted
equivalence
(Section 4.1)
Reduction
to
Subset Sum
(Section 4.4)
Search ≤Decision (Section 4.3)
Hardness ampliﬁcation
(Section 5)
Conditional lower bound
(Section 4.2)
PKE from 2m0.5-hardness of
Θ(1)-noise LPN (Section 3)
PKE from 2mc-hardness of
Θ(1)-noise LPN (Section 3)
PKE from poly-hardness of
Θ(1)-noise LPN (Section 3)
Faster algorithms for
k-XOR (Section 4.5)
Fig. 2. Overview of our results in terms of the density of the generated instances
(excluding Δ ∈{0, ∞}), where r is size (number of elements) of the instance. The x-
axis is not to scale. The PKE schemes for Δ ≤1 can be constructed from the speciﬁed
hardness of LPN under the assumption that k-XOR is hard at the densities depicted
on the plot. By contrast, the PKE scheme for Δ > 1 works under no assumptions on
the hardness of k-XOR, and for Δ ∈( 1
2, 1] under the standard average-case k-SUM
conjecture.
an instance can be interpreted as a matrix X ∈Fm×r
2
where m = k lg r/Δ. We
then encrypt a bit as follows. To encrypt zero, we sample a uniform random
vector of length r. To encrypt one, we take a random linear combination of the
rows of the public key, i.e. we sample a random vector s ←Fm
2 and output the
ciphertext s⊤X. Our hope is that only a recipient who knows the location of
planted vector can distinguish s⊤X from a random vector. Unfortunately, this
transformation preserves the kernel of X which makes distinguishing between
an encryption of zero and one easy. To circumvent this issue, we add i.i.d. noise
to each entry of the ciphertext, i.e. we sample e ←Berr
η where η ∈(0, 1) is
some noise parameter. Distinguishing such a noisy linear combination from a
random vector is now hard by LPN, implying indistinguishability of ciphertexts.
Decryption follows by using the location of the planted solution to annihilate
the large term s⊤X in the encryption of one. Sparsity of the secret key vector
ensures that the added noise does not blow up too much.
The reason the hardness of k-XOR helps weaken the assumption on LPN is
as follows. Suppose we wish to work with LPN with some constant noise rate
η. In order to be able to decrypt correctly in the above construction, we would

k-SUM in the Sparse Regime: Complexity and Applications
323
need to plant a set of fewer than k = (1/η) vectors in the public-key matrix that
sum to 0. Doing so might alter the distribution of the public matrix, whereas
the hardness of LPN is only with respect to a public matrix that is uniformly
random. If we want the distribution of the planted matrix to be close to uniform,
then it needs to at least have enough rows so that sets of k vectors that sum
to 0 occur naturally in the uniform distribution. This ends up requiring around
2m0.5 rows, and so LPN had to be hard for algorithms running in this time. If
decision k-XOR was hard, we would not need to rely on this statistical closeness
to uniform, and the number of rows in the public matrix can be much smaller
while keeping it computationally indistinguishable from uniform. This lets us
weaken the hardness required from constant-noise LPN. Similar observations
can be used to replace the assumptions about the SIS problem with those about
k-SUM in constructions using the LWE assumption. Please see Sect. 3 and the
full version [4] for details.
Relating Planted and Non-planted k-SUM. Towards showing our condi-
tional lower bounds, we ﬁrst show that any algorithm for planted search k-SUM
at density 1 also works for non-planted search k-SUM with a small loss in suc-
cess probability. This follows from showing that the planted and non-planted
distributions at densities 1 and higher are statistically close. At densities some-
what larger than 1, it is not hard to show that these are, in fact, very close in
total variation distance. At density 1, however, their total variation distance is
some constant. Nevertheless, we still show that any algorithm that has any con-
stant success probability over planted instances also has some constant success
probability over non-planted instances. We sketch our approach below.
Let D0 denote the distribution of uniformly random k-SUM instances, and
D1 the distribution of such instances with random planted k-SUM solutions. We
construct a class of hybrid distributions D(ℓ) that “interpolates” between these.
For ℓ∈[4, rk], the distribution D(ℓ) has the following properties:
– D(ℓ) has total variation distance at most 2/(ℓ−3)2 from D1
– D(ℓ) has R´enyi divergence5 (of order ∞) at most ck (ℓ+ 1) relative to D0,
where ck is a constant that depends only on k.
So if an algorithm succeeds with probability ϵ on D1, then it succeeds with
probability at least ϵ′ = (ϵ −2/(ℓ−3)2) on D(ℓ), and thus with probability at
least
ϵ′
ck(ℓ+1) on D0. Picking an appropriate ℓ= Θ(1/√ϵ) then gives us what we
want.
It remains to construct the distribution D(ℓ), which is deﬁned as follows. It
samples an instance from X from D1, checks if the instance at most ℓsolutions:
if so, it outputs X, and otherwise it outputs a fresh sample from D0. The above
bounds on the distances are then shown by expressing the probability mass
5 To be precise, this bound is on the maximum ratio of probability values between the
distributions. Technically, the R´enyi divergence of order ∞is actually the log of this
quantity, but for simplicity, throughout the paper we use the term to refer to this
maximum ratio itself instead.

324
S. Agrawal et al.
functions of D(ℓ) and D1 in terms of that of D0, and using bounds on the
probability of an instance from D0 having more than ℓsolutions.
We brieﬂy mention the relevance of this reduction to cryptography. Previ-
ously, it was shown by LaVigne, Lincoln and Williams [54] that the hardness of (a
variant of) the planted k-SUM problem yields a ﬁne-grained one way function.
Our aforementioned reduction (Theorem 4.1) shows that this can rely on the
hardness of the standard non-planted k-SUM problem instead. For more details,
please refer to Sect. 4.1.
Conditional Lower Bounds. Following the above reduction, the average-case
k-SUM conjecture implies that planted search k-SUM at density 1 needs at least
r⌈k/2⌉−o(1) time. Assuming this, we show lower bounds for lower densities. In
more detail, suppose there is an algorithm A that runs in time T(r) and solves
planted search k-SUM at some density Δ < 1 with constant probability. The idea
is, given an instance X at density 1, to convert X into an instance of density Δ
that still contains the planted solution, and then use A to recover the solution.
We implement this in two diﬀerent ways.
In the ﬁrst approach, given an instance X consisting of r elements sampled
at density 1, we choose a random subset X′ of X of size rΔ (thus reducing
the density to Δ) and run A on X′. If we condition on all elements of the
solution planted in X being copied to X′ in this process, then X′ is distributed
identically to a planted k-SUM instance of size rΔ sampled at density Δ. In this
case, A will ﬁnd this solution with constant probability (over X). The event we
conditioned on happens with probability at least Ω(1/rk (1−Δ)), and so if we
repeat this process O(rk (1−Δ)) times, it happens at least once with constant
probability and we can ﬁnd a solution in X. The k-SUM conjecture now implies
that rk (1−Δ) · T(rΔ) ≥rk/2. This, in turn, implies that T(r) ≥rk (1−
1
2Δ), which
is the bound we show.
The second approach is to reduce the density by combining elements in the
input and reducing the k in the k-SUM problem being considered, not unlike
the Wagner k-tree algorithm. For example, given instance X for planted k-SUM
at density 1, randomly choose r/4 disjoint pairs of elements to remove from the
instance, compute their sum and put the result back in to get instance X′. If it
happened that, out of the k elements in the solution in X, two were picked as
one of these pairs to be combined and the remaining were left untouched, then
this leads to a set of (k −1) elements in X′ that sum to 0. Seen as an instance of
(k−1)-SUM, X′ has density ≈(1−1/k), and an algorithm solving it can be used
to solve X. Computing the probability of this happening then leads to a similar
lower bound of rk (1−
1
2Δ) for density Δ, with two important diﬀerences. First, it
translates between diﬀerent values of k, inferring lower bounds on k′-SUM from
the hardness of k-SUM for k′ ̸= k. This allows us to e.g. establish that solving
4-SUM at density Δ = 4
5 requires r2−o(1) time, assuming that 5-SUM is hard to
solve at density Δ = 1 (see Theorem 4.4). Second, the lower bound only works
for a discrete set of densities for a given value of k, whereas the ﬁrst lower bound
works “continuously” as depicted in Fig. 1. Please see Sect. 4.2 for details.

k-SUM in the Sparse Regime: Complexity and Applications
325
Hardness Ampliﬁcation. We show that an algorithm that solves planted
search k-SUM (resp. k-XOR) at density in the range (1/polylog(r), 1] with prob-
ability Ω(1/polylog(r)) in time T implies an algorithm that solves it at the same
density with probability (1 −o(1)) in time 
O(T). Our procedure also works for
k-SUM over general abelian groups, though in this case it only works for densi-
ties slightly less than 1. We brieﬂy describe our approach here, using the speciﬁc
case of k-XOR for illustration; all the steps described below except the ﬁnal
reduction from density 1 can be applied with any abelian group.
For simplicity, we will start with the stronger assumption that there is an
algorithm A that solves planted search k-XOR with probability Ω(1) and, fur-
ther, is deterministic. Let TA ⊆(Fm
2 )r be the set of k-XOR instances for which
A correctly ﬁnds a solution; note that TA consists of an Ω(1) fraction of planted
instances. Our approach, given an instance X ∈(Fm
2 )r with a planted solution,
is to ﬁnd an X′ ∈TA such that a solution for X can be recovered from A(X′).
If there is an eﬃcient procedure that ﬁnds such an X′ given X and fails for at
most a o(1)-fraction of X’s, then this would prove the required ampliﬁcation.
We do this using the following process.
Walk(X, t):
1. Set X0 ←X
2. For i from 1 to t:
2.1. Sample j ←[r]
2.2. Replace the jth element Xi−1[j] with a random element x ←Fm
2 such
that x ̸= Xi−1[j]
2.3. Set Xi to be the resulting instance
3. Output Xt
Consider a graph where each vertex corresponds to an instance in (Fm
2 )r,
with an edge between two vertices iﬀthey diﬀer in exactly one column. This is
a well-studied graph known as the Hamming graph, here deﬁned over length-r
strings and alphabet of size 2m. The above process is a t-step random walk on this
graph starting from the vertex corresponding to X. The expansion properties
of the Hamming graph imply that random walks of length ω(r) mix quite well.
In other words, with t = ω(r), for any sets S and T that each contain an Ω(1)
fraction of instances, at least an Ω(1) fraction of t-step random walks that start
from S end in T.
With T = TA, this is reminiscent of what we want – by the above property, if
TA contains an Ω(1)-fraction of instances, then the set of instances X from which
a constant fraction of walks do not lead to TA has to be of relative size o(1).
There are some issue here, though – ﬁrst, this random walk does not preserve
solutions so it is not clear how to use it to solve X; and second, this graph mostly
consists of non-planted instances, and TA does not actually contain a constant
fraction of these. We deal with both of these by considering a conditioning of
this random walk.
For simplicity, we restrict our attention to planted instances X that have a
unique solution. Denote by span(X) the set of all instances X′ such that the

326
S. Agrawal et al.
solution in X′ appears at the same locations and consists of exactly the same
elements as that in X. Now, conditioning on all the Xi’s being contained in
span(X), the process Walk(X, t) is again a t-step random walk over a Hamming
graph, this time deﬁned over span(X). This conditioned random walk does pre-
serve the solution of X, as Xt is now in span(X). Further, for densities less than
1, with high probability no additional solutions are introduced during this walk.
Suppose the fraction of instances in span(X) that are contained in TA is
at least Ω(1). Then the set of X′ ∈span(X) = span(X′) for which an Ω(1)-
fraction of conditioned t-step random walks starting from X′ do end in TA is
of relative size at least (1 −o(1)). For each such X′, the event we conditioned
on happens with probability at least (1 −k/r)t. So for all but a o(1) fraction of
X′ ∈span(X), the unconditioned t-step random walk starting from X′ ends in
TA with probability at least Ω ((1 −k/r)t). We can set t = r · log log r so that
it is large enough for the walk to mix, and also (1 −k/r)t = 1/polylog(r) is not
too small so that success can then be ampliﬁed by repetition.
It remains to show that the fraction of instances in span(X) contained in
TA is at least Ω(1). We show that this property can be achieved for all but a
o(1)-fraction of planted instances X by obfuscating the planted solution. Our
obfuscation works by sampling a random set of k vectors E that sum to 0, and
then adding a random element from this set to each column of the given instance
X. With probability at least 1/kk, a distinct element from E is added to each
element of the solution planted in X, and thus the existence and location of the
solution are preserved, while the set of vectors that form the solution is fully
randomized. The columns of the modiﬁed X are then randomly permuted. This
ensures that the location of the solution is also randomized.
By repeating the above obfuscation process (and the entire reduction) O(kk)
times, we can ensure that a solution in X is preserved in at least one of the iter-
ations with high probability. This process hides most properties of the solution
and ensures that for most instances X, the fraction of span(X) that is solved
correctly by the algorithm is the same, and hence is at least Ω(1). This entire
argument works at every density ≤1 −log log r
log r , and in fact works for k-SUM
over any abelian group. For the cases of k-SUM over integers and vector k-SUM,
we can further extend the result to density 1 using a couple of other reductions.
Please see Sect. 5 for details.
1.3
Related Work
The worst-case complexity of the k-SUM problem has been studied extensively
in the ﬁeld of ﬁne-grained complexity due to its reductions to a large number of
other interesting problems [3,12,13,24,28,33,51,61,65, . . . ]. We refer the reader
to the survey by Williams [68] for details. The complexity of the k-SUM problem
in other computational models has also been studied, and it is known to have
non-trivial decision trees [35,39], non-deterministic algorithms [23], and lower
bounds in some of these models [5,31]. Questions regarding data structures for
it have also been studied [25,38,52].

k-SUM in the Sparse Regime: Complexity and Applications
327
Some conditional bounds for worst-case k-SUM are known in certain settings.
For super-constant k, an algorithm that runs in time ro(k) would contradict the
Exponential Time Hypothesis (ETH) [62]. Additionally, an algorithm for k-SUM
with numbers in the range {0, . . . , M −1} that runs in time M 1−Ω(1) would
contradict the Strong Exponential Time Hypothesis (SETH) [1].
Average-Case k-SUM. Average-case k-SUM and k-XOR in the dense regime
have several applications in cryptanalysis and has been the subject of substantial
work in the area, most involving better algorithms and applications [19,29,55,
58–60,67].
More recently, diﬀerent conditional lower bounds have been shown in this
regime. Brakerski, Stephens-Davidowitz and Vaikuntanathan [20] show that
Wagner’s algorithm is near-optimal for k-SUM at large densities as k tends
to inﬁnity, using reductions from worst-case lattice problems. Dinur, Keller and
Klein [30], as discussed above, show lower bounds at densities in (1, 2) assuming
the k-SUM conjecture at density 1. Dalirrooyfard, Lincoln and Williams [26]
show the average-case hardness of counting solutions in a “factored” version of
k-SUM assuming SETH. They also show search-to-decision reductions for the
average-case Zero-k-Clique problem.
The study of average-case ﬁne-grained complexity in general has proliferated
in the past few years [9,26]. Of particular relevance here is line of work on
worst-case to average-case reductions for counting k-cliques, which focuses on
reducing from and to the same problem [18,37]. The general paradigm of looking
for small hidden solutions in random instances is common in problems studied
in statistical inference, such as planted clique, Sparse PCA, etc. [15,16,34,47].
Worst-case versions of these problems have also been subjects of interest in ﬁne-
grained complexity [40,68].
Fine-Grained Cryptography. The question of constructing cryptographic
primitives with ﬁne-grained security guarantees assuming ﬁne-grained hard-
ness conjectures has been studied alongside average-case ﬁne-grained complex-
ity [10,22,54]. LaVigne, Lincoln and Williams [54] use an assumption about
the hardness of decision k-SUM to construct a ﬁne-grained One-Way Function.
They also construct ﬁne-grained Public-Key Encryption (with quadratic secu-
rity) assuming the average-case hardness of the Zero-k-Clique problem. Juels
and Peinado [49] similarly constructed One-Way Functions from the conjectured
hardness of planted clique for certain parameters.
Structured problems where a hidden solution can be planted have also been
used to construct cryptography in [8,54]. An immediately relevant illustra-
tion of this may be seen in the case of the subset sum problem, which is the
unparametrized version of k-SUM where the size of the solution is not restricted.
The average-case hardness of the planted subset sum problem at very low densi-
ties has been used to construct Public Key Encryption by Lyubashevsky, Palacio
and Segev [57]. We stress that our PKE construction based on LPN and k-XOR

328
S. Agrawal et al.
is not a simple modiﬁcation of this construction. In fact, the appropriate adap-
tation of their construction to k-XOR would be insecure6.
Hardness Ampliﬁcation. Approaches similar to ours for hardness ampliﬁ-
cation have been used to prove direct product theorems in the past [45], but
its use in amplifying the hardness of a ﬁxed natural problem is new. In con-
current independent work, Hirahara and Shimizu [41] use a similar framework
to show hardness ampliﬁcation for the planted clique problem, triangle count-
ing, matrix multiplication, and online matrix-vector multiplication. We brieﬂy
describe below the high-level similarities and diﬀerences in our approaches.
Our approach to amplifying the hardness of planted search k-SUM/k-XOR
is as follows. Given an instance, we perform a random walk over instances of
the same size where each step consists of adding some noise to the instance and
then randomizing it in a way that preserves solutions. We show that the graph
deﬁned over the instances by these steps has suﬃcient expansion properties for
the random walk to mix well before the noise added destroys the initial solution.
Then, for most instances as starting point, with a large enough probability, the
random walk leads to an instance that still has the original solution and at which
the weak average-case algorithm is correct.
Hirahara and Shimizu’s approach, roughly, is to embed the given instance in
a randomized instance of larger size – note that this never destroys the original
solution. They then show, in each of their reductions, that the bipartite graph
that captures this random embedding has suﬃcient expansion properties that
again, with most instances as starting point, with a large enough probability,
taking a random edge on the bipartite graph leads to a larger instance at which
the weak average-case algorithm is correct. This approach is closer to that of
Impagliazzo, Jaiswal, Kabanets and Wigderson [45], who also relied similarly on
bipartite graphs with expansion properties.
2
The k-SUM Problem
We now formally deﬁne the average-case k-SUM problem over general abelian
groups, and present existing hardness conjectures for certain interesting groups.
We start with a framework for discussing the general groups in this setting, and
some descriptive quantities we will use for them.
Group Ensembles. We ﬁx some underlying countably inﬁnite sequence of
ﬁnite abelian groups,
G = {G(r)}r∈N+,
6 Brieﬂy, the construction by [57] relies on the hardness of subset sum (or possibly
k-SUM) at a density where the number of bits in each element is roughly equal to the
number of elements in an instance. At this very low density, k-XOR (unlike subset
sum or k-SUM) can be easily solved using Gaussian elimination (see Sect. 4.5).

k-SUM in the Sparse Regime: Complexity and Applications
329
that we refer to as a group ensemble. Informally, an instance of “size” r of the k-
SUM problem over G will consist of r elements chosen uniformly at random from
the group G(r). With slight abuse of notation, we denote the group operation in
all of these groups by + (thus removing its dependency on r), and trust that it
is clear from the context to which group it belongs. For brevity, we may simply
refer to the ensemble as

G(r)
(omitting the subscript).
Deﬁnition 2.1 (Density). For any k ∈N and group ensemble G =

G(r)
,
we deﬁne the k-SUM density of the rth group as,
Δ(r)
k (G) =
k log r
log |G(r)|.
(1)
We then deﬁne the k-SUM density of the ensemble G as the limit of Δ(r) as r
tends to inﬁnity, i.e.,
Δk(G) = lim
r→∞Δ(r)
k (G).
(2)
When k is clear from the context, we will simply refer to the above quantity as
the density of G, and denote it by Δ(G) or even Δ.
Remark 2.1. A more natural deﬁnition for density, as described in Sect. 1, is
Δ(G) = log
r
k

/log |G|, which is more directly related to the expected number
of solutions. The above deﬁnition, however, is much more convenient to use
in analysis, and is still a good approximation to this quantity – the diﬀerence
between them is roughly O

Δ log k
log r
	
. So we use this instead, as Dinur, Keller
and Klein [30] also implicitly do.
We only work with group ensembles that have well-deﬁned density, though
many of our techniques can be applied to speciﬁc groups (rather than all groups
in an ensemble) if needed. We will also need the groups in the ensembles to
be eﬃciently sampleable and have group operations that can be eﬃciently per-
formed. This is both so that hard problems deﬁned over them can be used, and
because our reductions sometimes need to sample random group elements.7
Deﬁnition 2.2 (Admissibility). For k ∈N, a group ensemble G = {G(r)} is
admissible for k-SUM if it satisﬁes the following properties:
– Eﬃcient sampling: There exists an algorithm that, on input r ∈N, samples
a uniformly random group element from G(r) and runs in time O(log |G(r)|
polylog log |G(r)|).
7 Note that log |G(r)| is the number of bits required to represent elements of G(r),
and we ask that random elements be sampleable in time quasilinear in this. This
asks for a uniform algorithm that samples elements for any G(r). All the theorems
stated in the paper are for uniform algorithms. All of our reductions are uniform
except where they use this group sampler and compute group operations. So if the
group ensembles in consideration only have non-uniform samplers and non-uniform
algorithms for group operations, the non-uniform versions of our theorems are still
true for them.

330
S. Agrawal et al.
– Eﬃcient operations: There exists an algorithm that, on input r ∈N and group
elements g, h ∈G(r), outputs the result of the corresponding group operation
on g and h, and runs in time O

polylog|G(r)|

.
– Convergent density: Δk(G) exists and is ﬁnite. Further, we have:
|Δ(r)
k (G) −Δk(G)|
Δk(G)
≤
1
log |G(r)|.
(3)
If the density Δ(r)
k (G) were to be equal to the limit Δk(G) = Δ, then the
size of the group G(r) would have to be equal to rk/Δ. As these quantities are
discrete, this exact equality cannot be achieved for arbitrary values of Δ. Instead,
we have the above convergence condition, which ensures that the size of G(r) is
always within a factor of 2 of its ideal value rk/Δ.
All our statements are to be taken to be made only for ensembles that are
admissible for k-SUM for k that will be clear from the context, and we leave out
this speciﬁcation in the rest of the paper. For most of the paper, we will also
ignore the convergence error, and assume that Δ(r)
k (G) = Δk(G) in our analysis.
This error is only of size (Δk(G)/ log |G(r)|). As we almost always work with
small values of density, this will not aﬀect our results substantially.
Special Ensembles. We now deﬁne a few classes of group ensembles that will
be of particular interest to us. Each class is parameterized by the density Δ of
the ensemble. The ﬁrst is the class of modular k-SUM ensembles, i.e., ensem-
bles associated with the k-SUM problem modulo some integer. The ensemble
corresponding to density Δ > 0 is deﬁned as follows.
G(Δ)
k-SUM = {Z2m(r)} ,
where m(r) =
k log r
Δ

.
(4)
Another class that we will pay special attention to is the class of k-XOR group
ensembles, i.e. k-SUM deﬁned over GF2m for an appropriately chosen m. We
deﬁne it as follows.
G(Δ)
k-XOR = {GF2m(r)} ,
where m(r) =
k log r
Δ

.
(5)
We will refer to the k-SUM problem over G(Δ)
k-XOR simply as the k-XOR problem.
We introduce a natural generalisation of k-XOR that we call vector k-SUM
which is deﬁned as follows.
G(Δ)
vector-(q,k)-SUM =

(Fq)m(r)
,
where m(r) =
k log r
Δ lg q

.
(6)
The k-XOR problem remains a special case with q = 2. If q is given by the
context, we may refer to this problem as simply vector k-SUM. It may be veriﬁed
that all three of these ensembles are admissible.

k-SUM in the Sparse Regime: Complexity and Applications
331
2.1
The Non-planted k-SUM Problem
Fix some k ∈N, a group ensemble G = {G(r)}r∈N, and deﬁne the related ensem-
ble of “null distributions” as follows.
Distribution D(r)
0
1. Sample r group elements X1, X2, . . . , Xr i.i.d. uniformly at random from G(r)
2. Return X = (X1, . . . , Xr)
In the (non-planted) search k-SUM problem, given such an X, the task is to ﬁnd
a set of k elements in X that sum to zero (the identity element of the group).
If r is clear from the context, we may refer to the distribution simply as D0
(omitting the superscript r).
Deﬁnition 2.3 (Non-planted Search k-SUM). For k ∈N and an ensemble
G, an algorithm A is said to solve the (non-planted) search k-SUM problem over
G with success probability ϵ if, on input an instance X of size r it outputs an
S = A(X) ⊆[r] with |S| = k such that,
Pr
X∼D(r)
0
S←A(X)

i∈S
Xi = 0

≥ϵ.
where the randomness is taken over the instance and the random coins used by
A. If ϵ = Ω(1), we simply say that A solves the search k-SUM problem over G.
We will refer to any set S of size k that satisﬁes 
i∈S Xi = 0 as a k-SUM
solution for X (or a k-XOR solution for the k-XOR problem). Not all instances
X necessarily have a k-SUM solution. However, if G has density 1, there is
(asymptotically) at least a constant probability that X drawn from D0 has at
least one k-SUM solution. Such a solution, can be found in time 
O(r⌈k/2⌉) using
a simple meet-in-the-middle algorithm. So for any ensemble G of density 1, there
is an algorithm that runs in time 
O(r⌈k/2⌉) and solves search k-SUM over G with
success probability Ω(1).
For certain ensembles of density 1, it is conjectured that it is not possible to
do much better than this. That is, that there is no algorithm that is signiﬁcantly
faster that still solves the search k-SUM problem with constant success proba-
bility. The following conjectures were formalized by Dinur, Keller and Klein [30],
where they are stated to be folklore.8 Weaker versions appear in [54] and [63].
Conjecture 2.1 (Average-Case k-SUM Conjecture).
For any k ∈N, any algo-
rithm that solves (non-planted) search k-SUM over G(1)
k-SUM with constant success
probability has expected running time at least Ω(r⌈k/2⌉−o(1)).
8 To be accurate, Dinur, Keller and Klein state their conjecture for the k-SUM problem
where the sum is performed over integers (rather than modulo some number as in
Gk-SUM). They show, however, that k-SUM over integers is equivalent to k-SUM over
Gk-SUM at approximately the same density, roughly implying the conjecture above.

332
S. Agrawal et al.
Conjecture 2.2 (Average-Case k-XOR Conjecture).
For any k ∈N, any algo-
rithm that solves (non-planted) search k-SUM over G(1)
k-XOR with constant success
probability has expected running time at least Ω(r⌈k/2⌉−o(1)).
2.2
The Planted k-SUM Problem
We now deﬁne a diﬀerent distribution—the planted distribution—where, again
we sample a random instance, but now we additionally plant a solution at ran-
dom before outputting it. We may deﬁne this process formally as follows.
Distribution D(r)
1
1. Sample r group elements X1, X2, . . . , Xr i.i.d. uniformly at random from G(r)
2. Choose a random set S ⊆[r] with |S| = k
3. Let i ∈S be the smallest index and let Xi ←−
j∈S
j̸=i
Xj
4. Return X
If r is clear from the context, we may refer to the distribution simply as D1
(omitting the superscript r).
Remark 2.2. Another natural distribution to study in the low-density regime is
the uniform distribution conditioned on there being at least one solution. How-
ever, there is no simple way to sample from this distribution. It is worth noting
that, at density (1 −ϵ) for any constant ϵ > 0, this distribution is statistically
close to, but not the same as, the planted distribution.
Once again, we may deﬁne a (planted) search k-SUM problem for the planted
distribution in the same way as we did in Deﬁnition 2.3.
Deﬁnition 2.4 (Planted Search k-SUM).
For k ∈N and an ensemble G,
an algorithm A is said to solve the planted search k-SUM problem over G with
success probability ϵ if, on input an instance X of size r it outputs an S =
A(X) ⊆[r] with |S| = k such that,
Pr
X∼D(r)
1
S←A(X)

i∈S
Xi = 0

≥ϵ.
where the randomness is taken over the distribution D(r)
1
and the random coins
used by A. If ϵ = Ω(1), we simply say that A solves the planted search k-SUM
problem over G.
Note that the 
O

r⌈k/2⌉
-time algorithm mentioned above can solve the
planted search k-SUM problem with probability (1 −o(1)). For certain group
ensembles with additional structure, the k-SUM problem becomes easy to solve
at very low densities. For instance, in the k-XOR problem, each element in the
instance is a vector. If the length of these vectors is larger than r, then with high

k-SUM in the Sparse Regime: Complexity and Applications
333
probability the planted solution will be the only linear dependence among these
vectors, and can be found by Gaussian elimination (see Sect. 4.5 for details).
In addition, we also deﬁne a decision version of the k-SUM problem, which is
to distinguish between these above two distributions. Now the algorithm is given
a sample from either D(r)
0
or D(r)
1 , and has to guess from which distribution its
input was sampled.
Deﬁnition 2.5 (Decision k-SUM). For k ∈N and an ensemble G, an algo-
rithm A is said to solve the decision k-SUM problem over G with success prob-
ability ϵ if, for both b ∈{0, 1},
Pr
X∼D(r)
b
[A(X) = b] ≥ϵ.
where the randomness is taken over the random coins chosen by A. If ϵ = 1−o(1),
we simply say that A solves the decision k-SUM problem over G.
An algorithm that randomly guesses can solve the decision k-SUM problem
with success probability 1/2, so the interesting task is doing better than this. It
follows from our proofs in Sect. 4.1 that at density 1, the best success probability
any algorithm can have is some constant ϵ < 1. At lower densities, it is possible
to achieve success probability that is (1−o(1)) by checking whether any solution
exists.
In later sections, we will occasionally be ‘sloppy’ with our use of these formal
deﬁnitions. It will often be the case that the choice of r is ﬁxed and unambiguous,
and hence we will sometimes refer to the group ensemble simply as G, thus
removing the dependence on the superscript. Similarly, we may denote the null
distribution as simply D0, or the planted distribution as D1.
Similarly, the underlying group ensemble may be implicitly given in terms of
the density; when we talk about ‘sampling at density Δ0’, we refer to a group
ensemble G(Δ0) that satisﬁes Δ(G) = Δ0. These group ensembles will often be
G(Δ0)
k-SUM and G(Δ0)
k-XOR, though we may omit formally specifying this and trust it
is clear from the context what we mean.
3
Applications to Public-Key Encryption
In this section, we demonstrate a class of public-key bit-encryption schemes
(we refer to the full version [4] for the formal deﬁnition) based on the planted
search k-XOR problem and the Learning Parity with Noise (LPN) problem. By
instantiating the class appropriately, we strike various trade-oﬀs between the
hardness required for LPN and the densities at which we assume planted search
k-XOR is hard.
Deﬁnition 3.1 (Search LPN Problem). An algorithm A is said to solve
the search Learning Parity with Noise (LPN) problem with noise rate η with
probability ϵ if, given ⟨X, Xs + e⟩where X ←Fr×m
2
, s ←Fm
2 , and e ←Berr
η,
it outputs s with probability at least ϵ, where the randomness is taken over the
instance and the random coins used by the algorithm.

334
S. Agrawal et al.
The best known algorithm for search LPN when η = Θ(1) is by Blum, Kalai
and Wasserman [17] that for an m-dimensional secret runs in subexponential
time 2O(m/ log(m)). There is another algorithm by Esser, K¨ubler and May [32]
that runs in time 2O(ηm) and thus outperforms the BKW algorithm when the
noise-rate is small. We also consider the decision LPN problemwhich is known
to be polynomially equivalent, as showed in [50].
Deﬁnition 3.2 (Hardness of Planted Search k-XOR). We say that planted
search k-XOR is T(r)-hard at density Δ if any algorithm that runs in time at
most T(r) has a success probability at most (1−Ω(1/ log r)) in solving the planted
search k-XOR problem at density Δ.
Lemma 3.1. If the planted search k-XOR problem at density Ω(
1
polylog(r)) ≤
Δ ≤1 is hard to solve with probability 1 −o(
1
log r) in time 
O(T), it is also hard
to solve with probability γ = Ω(
1
polylog(r)) in time 
O(T · (γ2/k)k).
Proof. This follows from setting q = 2 in Theorem 5.2 and taking the contra-
positive.
⊓⊔
We can now put together Theorem 4.5 and Lemma 3.1 to translate mild
hardness of planted search k-XOR (Deﬁnition 3.2) into a bound on the advantage
of an algorithm that solves decision k-XOR with any constant advantage.
Corollary 3.1. For any k = o(log r/ log log r), if planted search k-XOR is T(r)-
hard at density Δ, then any algorithm that runs in time

T(r)/r2
solves the
decision-k-XOR problem at density Δ with advantage at most o(1).
3.1
Construction
In this section, we propose a class of cryptosystems PKEη,k,ℓ,m that is param-
eterized by four functions η : N →(0, 1) and k, ℓ, m : N →N, where for security
parameter r, η(r) is the noise-rate, k(r) is the size of the planted k-XOR solu-
tion, m(r) is the dimension of the vectors, and ℓ(r) is the number of repetitions
in the cryptosystem we describe (this is necessary to satisfy correctness). We
will show that PKEη,k,ℓ,m can be instantiated in various ways to obtain public-
key encryption, by striking a trade-oﬀbetween the assumed hardness of LPN
and the densities at which planted search k-XOR is assumed hard. We can also
alternatively trade oﬀthe density for the size of the public key. This allows us
to obtain public keys of size r1+o(1) at noise rate η = Θ(1) from 2m0.5-hardness,
while the previous best-known construction of PKE from the same assumptions
used a public key of size r2. For given η, k, ℓ, m, the cryptosystem is deﬁned as
follows.
Key Generation KeyGen(1r).
1. Let pk = (pk1, pk2, . . . , pkr)
$←Fm(r)×r
2
.
2. Choose a random set sk ⊆[r] with |sk| = k(r).

k-SUM in the Sparse Regime: Complexity and Applications
335
3. Let i ∈sk be the smallest index and let pki ←−

j∈sk
j̸=i
pkj.
4. Return ⟨pk, sk⟩.
Here, we will interpret each sk ∈Fr
2 as the characteristic vector for the set
sk ⊆[r].
Encryption Enc(pk, b).
1. If b = 0.
1.1. Return C
$←Fℓ(r)×r
2
.
2. If b = 1.
2.1. Let S
$←Fℓ(r)×m(r)
2
.
2.2. Let E ←Berℓ(r)×r
η(r)/2 .
2.3. Return C ←S pk + E.
Decryption Dec(sk, C).
1. Return 0 if ∥C sk∥0 > ℓ(r)

1
2 −(1−η(r))k(r)
4
	
; else return 1.
Moving forward, we will implicitly ﬁx the value of r and thus treat η, k, ℓ, m
as constants such that we may drop their dependence on r.
Lemma 3.2. Decryption succeeds with probability at least (1 −ϵ) when ℓ≥
32 (1 −η)−2k ln(1/ε).
The proof of Lemma 3.2 can be found in the full version [4].
We aim to show that no adversary can eﬃciently distinguish between an
encryption of zero and an encryption of one, in order to show CPA security (we
refer to the full version [4] for a formal deﬁnition).
Lemma 3.3 (Security of Cryptosystem). Suppose the following conditions
are satisﬁed for some choice of η, k, ℓ, m (as functions of r), and T (as a
function of m):
(1) k = o(log(r)/ log log(r)) and ℓ= o(T(m)).
(2) η-noise Search LPN is (T(m)3 · m log m)-hard for secrets of size m.
(3) Planted search k-XOR is rk/2−o(1)-hard (Deﬁnition 3.2) at density k log r
m
.
Then any adversary that runs in time min

T(m), rk/2−2
has an advantage o(1)
in distinguishing an encryption of 0 from an encryption of 1 in PKEη,k,ℓ,m.
The proof of Lemma 3.3 can be found in the full version [4].
Theorem 3.1 (PKE from k-XOR and LPN). There are values of η = Θ(1),
k = O(log r), m = ro(1), and ℓ= poly(r) such that the cryptosystem PKEη,k,ℓ,m
is a (weak) public-key bit encryption scheme, with all operations running in time
r1+o(1), if any of the following conditions are satisﬁed:

336
S. Agrawal et al.
(1) Constant-noise LPN is 2m0.5-hard; or,
(2) Constant-noise LPN is 2mc-hard (for any constant c > 0) and planted search
k-XOR is rk/2−o(1)-hard at every density
1
polylog(r); or,
(3) Constant-noise LPN is poly(m)-hard and planted search k-XOR is rk/2−o(1)-
hard at every density
1
ro(1) .
The proof of Theorem 3.1 can be found in the full version [4]. We remark
in passing that this construction can be combined with our conditional lower
bound (Sect. 4.2) to yield a construction based on the hardness of standard
(non-planted) k-XOR, i.e. the construction can work at densities ( 1
2, 1). Doing
so requires assuming constant-noise LPN is hard for 2m0.5−ε for some ε = o(1).
Observe that the size of the public key size is m · r bits. The encryption time
is O(ℓ· m · r), while decryption takes time O(ℓ· r). In all of the instantiations in
Theorem 3.1, the above quantities are at most r1+o(1).
We note that conclusion (1) in Theorem 3.1 was also previously shown by Yu
and Zhang [69], who use a diﬀerent construction to build public-key encryption
from 2m0.5-hardness of constant-noise LPN. Their cryptosystem has a public key
of size of r2, while the above cryptosystem has a public key of size mr = r1+o(1),
which is substantially smaller for large r.
4
Basic Complexity of k-SUM
In this section, we provide various results about the basic complexity of the k-
SUM problem and its variants in the sparse regime. We ﬁrst show an equivalence
of planted and non-planted k-SUM at densities Δ ≥1. We then show two condi-
tional lower bounds on the runtime of an algorithm that solves planted k-SUM
at any density Δ ∈
 1
2, 1

. We then show a reduction from search to decision at
densities Δ < 1, and reductions to the Subset Sum problem. Finally, we show
how to solve k-XOR eﬃciently at very low densities.
4.1
Relating Planted and Non-planted k-SUM
In this section, we prove an equivalence between planted and non-planted k-SUM
at densities ≥1 for any ﬁnite Abelian group. We ﬁrst show that at Δ = 1, any
algorithm that solves the planted problem can be used to solve the non-planted
problem. The precise theorem we show is the following. Its proof can be found
in the full version [4].
Theorem 4.1 (Equivalence at Density 1). For any k ∈N and ensemble
G of density 1, suppose there exists an algorithm that runs in time T(r) and
solves planted search k-SUM over G with success probability at least ϵ(r). Then,
the same algorithm also solves non-planted search k-SUM over G with success
probability at least ϵ(r)3/2/(21kk).

k-SUM in the Sparse Regime: Complexity and Applications
337
This theorem implies that planting is a ﬁne-grained one-way function assuming
the (non-planted) average-case k-SUM conjecture over G holds. To illustrate this,
consider the case of k-XOR. Let,
f : F⌈k log r⌉×r
2
×
r
k

→F⌈k log r⌉×r
2
,
be the ‘planting function’ that takes as input a matrix at density 1 – such that
m = k log r – and plants a solution in the locations speciﬁed by the second input,
where these locations are ordered lexicographically among all subsets of [r] of size
k. For instance, the output f(1) is a random matrix that has a solution in the set
[k]. Then, assuming the average-case k-XOR conjecture, it follows immediately
from Theorem 4.1 that f is a ﬁne-grained one-way function that takes 
O(r) time
to compute, and cannot be inverted by algorithms running in rk/2−Ω(1) time.
This function was also considered by [54] who show that it constitutes a ﬁne-
grained one-way function based on a decision version of the k-SUM conjecture.
In their work, the one-way function relies implicitly on the hardness of planted
k-SUM, whereas ours can rely on the hardness of non-planted search k-SUM.
We observe that in the dense regime, the two distributions are equivalent in
a stronger sense. The proof of Theorem 4.2 is delegated to the full version [4].
Theorem 4.2 (Statistical Closeness in Dense Regime). Fix some admis-
sible group ensemble G =

G(r)
r∈N and let D(r)
0
(resp. D(r)
1 ) be the non-planted
(resp. planted) distribution on r group elements. If for some k > 0, it holds that
the density Δ = Δk(G ) > 1, then,
SD

D(r)
0 , D(r)
1
	
= O

kk
rk [1−1
Δ]

.
This means that if we modify f above to have k = Θ(log r) and Δ > 1 be
some constant, then this planting is an ‘actual’ one-way function against any
polynomial-time algorithm assuming the k-XOR conjecture is true. This is sim-
ilar to [49] who show that planting a clique of a certain size in an Erd˝os-R´enyi
graph also constitutes a one-way function, assuming it is hard to ﬁnd planted
cliques of size (1 + ϵ) log n for some constant ϵ > 0 in an Erd˝os-R´enyi graph of
size n.
4.2
Conditional Lower Bounds for Sparse k-SUM
In this section, we establish two diﬀerent conditional lower bounds for planted
k-SUM in the sparse regime. The proofs for both can be found in the full version
[4].
We ﬁrst employ a sparsiﬁcation procedure on k-SUM that reduces the size of
the input array to decrease the density of an instance. The resulting reduction
establishes a conditional lower bound for recovery and detection that is non-
trivial at any density Δ ∈
 1
2, 1

. The proof of Theorem 4.3 can be found in the
full version [4].

338
S. Agrawal et al.
Theorem 4.3 (Conditional Lower Bound). Suppose Conjecture 2.1 (resp.
Conjecture 2.2) is true. Then, for k ∈N and Δ ∈
 1
2, 1

, any algorithm that
solves planted search k-SUM in G(Δ)
k-SUM (resp. G(Δ)
k-XOR) with constant success
probability has to take expected time Ω

r[k (1−
1
2Δ)]−o(1)	
.
Next, we use a diﬀerent method to lower density by changing the value of k;
this gives us non-trivial bounds at some particular densities in
 2
3, 1

. The proof
of Theorem 4.4 can be found in the full version [4].
Theorem 4.4 (Conditional Lower Bound for Diﬀerent k’s).
Suppose
Conjecture 2.1 (resp. Conjecture 2.2) is true. Then, for k ∈N and Δ ∈
 1
2, 1

such that Δ = k
k′ for some k′ ∈[k + 1, 2k −1], any algorithm that solves planted
search k-SUM in G(Δ)
k-SUM (resp. G(Δ)
k-XOR ) with constant success probability has
to take expected time Ω

r[k (1−
1
2Δ )]−o(1)	
.
Interestingly, this lets us infer lower bounds for k-SUM assuming the hardness
of k′-SUM for a value of k′ diﬀerent from k. The following is an example.
Corollary 4.1. Suppose Conjecture 2.1 is true for k = 5. Then any algorithm
that solves planted search 4-SUM at density Δ = 4
5 has to take time Ω

r2−o(1)
.
4.3
Search to Decision Reduction
A search-to-decision reduction for k-SUM is implied by the work of Impagliazzo
and Naor [46]. They show a similar reduction for the Subset Sum problem modulo
prime numbers or powers of 2, and their proof can be extended – using an
eﬃcient instantiation of the Goldreich-Levin algorithm [36,66] and some minor
optimizations – to obtain the following theorem.
Theorem 4.5 (Search-to-Decision Reduction, implied by [46]). For k ∈
N and Δ < 1, suppose there is an algorithm that runs in time T(r), and solves
the decision k-SUM problem over G(Δ)
k-SUM (resp. G(Δ)
k-XOR) with success probability
(1/2+ϵ). Then, there is an algorithm that runs in time O(T(r)·r log (r)·(k/ϵ)4),
and solves the planted search k-SUM problem over G(Δ)
k-SUM (resp. G(Δ)
k-XOR) with
success probability at least 3/4.
We show a diﬀerent search-to-decision reduction for the k-SUM problem over
general group ensembles that is incomparable to the one above. Whereas the
above reduction can work with any decision algorithm that has success proba-
bility more than 1/2, our reduction requires this success probability to be close
to 1. On the other hand, it avoids the factor of r loss in the running time of the
above reduction. Our proof is also more elementary, using an algorithm reminis-
cent of binary search. The precise statement we show is the following. The proof
of Theorem 4.6 can be found in the full version [4].

k-SUM in the Sparse Regime: Complexity and Applications
339
Theorem 4.6 (Search-to-Decision Reduction). For k ∈N, and ensemble G
of density Δ < 1, suppose there is an algorithm that runs in time T(r) = Ω(r/Δ),
and solves the decision k-SUM problem over G with success probability (1−o(1)).
Then, for any constant γ < 1, there is an algorithm that runs in time 
O(T(r)),
and solves the planted search k-SUM problem in G with success probability at
least γ.
4.4
Reduction from k-SUM to Subset Sum at Very Low Densities
In this section, we reduce the planted k-SUM problem on integers to the sub-
set sum problem. We will show both a worst-case as well as an average-case
reduction. We then use existing algorithms for low-density subset sum to get
non-trivial algorithms for planted k-SUM at low densities. Surprisingly, the two
constructions are quite diﬀerent and cannot be interchanged. The proofs of The-
orems 4.7 and 4.8 can be found in the full version [4].
Theorem 4.7 (Worst-Case Reduction to Subset Sum).
Suppose there
exists a worst-case algorithm A with time complexity T(r) = Ω(r) that solves
Subset Sum. Then, there is an algorithm B with the same time complexity T(r)
that solves the worst-case search k-SUM problem.
The reduction used to prove the above theorem unfortunately does not gen-
eralize to the average case setting, as an average-case oracle could potentially
be biased against instances of the form it produces. We instead give a diﬀerent
reduction that does work in the average-case, from the modular k-SUM problem
with prime moduli. In the average case, this is known to be equivalent to the
integer k-SUM problem. See the full version [4] for details.
Theorem 4.8 (Average-Case Reduction to Subset Sum). Suppose there
exists an algorithm A of time complexity T(r) = Ω(r) that solves the average-case
subset sum problem with constant success probability at some constant density
Δ < 1. Then, for any constant k, there is an algorithm B with the same time
complexity that can solve the planted search k-SUM problem on groups of the
form Zp (where p is a prime larger than k) at density
kΔ log r
r
with constant
success probability.
4.5
Algorithm for k-XOR at Low Densities
Finally, we will show that the k-XOR problem becomes easy to solve at densities
Δ ≤
1
r0.5+ϵ . To start with, observe that the k-XOR problem becomes very easy
to solve when the input matrix is square (i.e. m = r). This is because a random
boolean square matrix is full rank with constant probability, in which case the
planted k-XOR solution is the only linear dependence, and we can ﬁnd it using
Gaussian elimination in O(r3) time. This algorithm also works when m > r; we
can simply ignore the bottom m −r rows. Below, we will provide an algorithm
for k-XOR that works by repeatedly trying to reduce a more general instance to
this case. The proof of Theorem 4.9 can be found in the full version [4].

340
S. Agrawal et al.
Theorem 4.9 (Algorithm for k-XOR). For any k ∈N, there is an algorithm
that runs in time 
O

rkm3−k
and solves the planted search k-XOR problem at
any density with success probability 1 −o(1).
5
Hardness Ampliﬁcation
In this section, we propose a success ampliﬁcation procedure for search k-SUM
outside the dense regime. The procedure ampliﬁes the success probability of any
algorithm that solves planted search k-SUM with probability Ω(1/polylog(r)) to
1 −o(1/ log r), at the cost of increasing its runtime by a polylogarithmic factor.
We prove this result for any abelian group up to density (1−ϵ) for some ϵ = o(1).
In the full version [4], we show how to extend our result up to density 1 for the
special case of k-SUM over integers modulo a power of 2, and vector k-SUM (of
which k-XOR is a special case). Note that while G is used to denote a group
ensemble, and G is the group speciﬁc to the instance size r, for simplicity of
notation, we will use G to denote also the speciﬁc group and trust that this will
not cause confusion.
We will consider the k-SUM problem over some arbitrary abelian group
ensemble G = {G(r)}. Our input will be an array of length r containing ele-
ments of G(r). At density Δ, we have the relation Δ log |G(r)| = k log r. As
long as 1 > Δ = Ω

1
polylog(r)
	
and k = O(1), this implies that log |G(r)| =
Θ(polylog(r)). Below, for any instance M and set S ⊆[r], we will denote by
M[S] the sub-array of M indexed by the elements in S.
Recall the distributions D0 and D1 deﬁned in Sect. 2 for any r (speciﬁed by
context) as follows:
1. To sample from D0, we simply choose each element of the array independently
and uniformly at random from G(r).
2. To sample from D1, we do the same thing and then replace a random entry
with the negated sum of k −1 randomly chosen other entries9.
Given an arbitrary instance M sampled from D1, the planted search k-SUM
problem asks for a k-tuple of indices S such that:

i∈S
Mi = 0
(7)
Theorem 5.1 (Hardness Ampliﬁcation for General Groups). Consider
any k ≥3, α ≥1, and a group ensemble G with density Δk (G) = Δ such that:
Ω

1
polylog(r)

≤Δ ≤
k log r
k log r + (α + 1) log log r < 1.
9 This is equivalent to replacing the smallest entry with the negated sum of the other
entries, as deﬁned in Sect. 2.

k-SUM in the Sparse Regime: Complexity and Applications
341
Suppose there exists an algorithm Arec that runs in time T(r) = Ω(r), and solves
the planted search k-SUM problem over G with success probability γ = Ω(
1
logα r).
Then, there is an algorithm that runs in time 
O

T · (k/γ2)k
, and solves the
planted search k-SUM problem over G with success probability

1 −o

1
log r
		
.
The statement of Theorem 5.1 can be further strengthened if the underlying
group ensemble has some extra structure. In some special cases, we can show an
analogous results for all densities Δ ≤1.
Theorem 5.2 (Hardness Ampliﬁcation for Vector k-SUM). For k ≥3
and density Ω

1
polylog(r)
	
≤Δ ≤1, suppose there exists an algorithm Arec
that runs in time T(r) = Ω(r), and solves the planted search vector k-SUM
problem at density Δ (k-SUM over G(Δ)
vector-(q,k)-SUM) with success probability γ =
Ω

1
polylog(r)
	
. Then, there is an algorithm that runs in time 
O

T · (k/γ2)k
,
and solves the same problem with success probability

1 −o

1
log r
		
.
Theorem 5.3 (Hardness Ampliﬁcation for Modular k-SUM). For k ≥3
and density Ω

1
polylog(r)
	
≤Δ ≤1, suppose there exists an algorithm Arec that
runs in time T(r) = Ω(r), and solves the planted search k-SUM problem over
G(Δ)
k-SUM with success probability γ = Ω

1
polylog(r)
	
. Then, there is an algorithm
that runs in time 
O

T · (k/γ2)k
, and solves the same problem with success
probability

1 −o

1
log r
		
.
The proofs of Theorems 5.2 and 5.3 can be found in the full version of this work.
Note that Theorem 5.3 implies also hardness ampliﬁcation for 3-SUM which was
not known before (see the full version [4] for details).
The proof of Theorem 5.1 is postponed as we ﬁrst build an appropriate
framework for it. At a high level, we will simply invoke the recovery oracle
multiple times on inputs related to the original input. To deal with the oracle
potentially being malicious, we employ an obfuscation procedure to hide the
original solution. We will raise the success probability in several steps. For the
sake of simplicity, we will assume that γ = Θ

1
logα r
	
in the rest of the proof.
Of course, if our starting algorithm Arec has a higher success probability, we can
always make it less reliable by randomly failing on an appropriate fraction of
inputs.
To analyze our construction, we will make use of standard results from spec-
tral graph theory which we recap here for the purpose of self-containment. Let
G be a multigraph with adjacency matrix A. We associate to G the eigenvalues
of A. Now, let λ1 ≥λ2 ≥· · · ≥λn be the eigenvalues of G. We then deﬁne the
algebraic expansion as λ(G) = maxi=2...n |λi| = max(|λ2|, |λn|). The algebraic
expansion measures the extent to which nodes are connected, with smaller val-
ues of λ(G) meaning a graph that is more connected. In particular, the following

342
S. Agrawal et al.
lemma allows us to lower bound the number of edges between any two sets of
vertices in terms of λ(G).
Lemma 5.1 (Expander Mixing Lemma, [7]). Let G = (V, E) be a d-regular
graph, and let S, T ⊆V . Then,
E(S, T) −d · |S| · |T|
|V |
 ≤λ(G)

|S| · |T|.
where λ(G) is the algebraic expansion of the graph.
Deﬁnition 5.1 (Hamming Graphs). Fix a set Q with |Q| = q. The Hamming
graph H(d, q) is deﬁned as the graph (V, E) whose vertex set V = Qd = Q×Q×
· · · × Q is the Cartesian product of Q with itself d times, where (u, v) ∈E if u
and v diﬀer in precisely one coordinate, i.e. if there is an index j ∈[d] such that
ui = vi if and only if i = j. The graph H(d, q) is a regular graph of diameter d,
whose eigenvalues can be characterized as follows.
Lemma 5.2 (Hamming Graph Eigenvalues, [27]). The ith eigenvalue of the
adjacency matrix of H(d, q) satisﬁes,
λi(H(d, q)) = (q (d −i) −d)(
d
i)(q−1)i
.
Fix a group ensemble G satisfying the conditions in the theorem. Fix some r,
and denote the corresponding group G(r) ∈G simply by G. For our construction,
we will restrict our attention to arrays which have exactly one k-SUM solution.
Deﬁnition 5.2 (Permissible Array). We call an array that has exactly one
k-SUM solution permissible. Formally, an array M ∈Gr is permissible if and
only if there exists a unique subset κ ⊂[r] such that |κ| = k and 
i∈κ M[i] = 0.
Deﬁne Dperm to be the distribution D1 conditioned on the sampled array being
permissible.
Remark 5.1. Since it is nontrivial to check if a given array is permissible, there
is no obvious eﬃcient sampling process for Dperm. We only use this distribution
to make theoretical arguments.
We note the following properties of permissible arrays, whose proof is deferred
to the full version [4].
Lemma 5.3. The following is true.
1.
Pr
M∼D1[M is permissible] = 1 −o(γ).
2. Dperm is uniform on its support.

k-SUM in the Sparse Regime: Complexity and Applications
343
Solution Obfuscation. Our ﬁrst step is creating an intermediate algorithm
Aobf that runs in 
O(T) time and solves the same problem somewhat more reli-
ably. Let Arec be the recovery algorithm with success probability γ promised in
the statement of Theorem 5.1; it takes as input an array sampled from D1 and
returns an array of size k which contains the indices corresponding to a solution.
Observe that Arec can be adversarially biased in at least two ways. It can only
look for solutions in some particular positions (e.g. it only looks at the ﬁrst r/2
entries and always fails in the 1 −1/2k fraction of the inputs where the solution
involves the other entries). To deal with this issue, we anonymize the solution
by applying an arbitrary permutation to M.
The original oracle can also only look for solutions where the entries have
some particular property (e.g. it can only ﬁnd solutions where all the elements
in S belong to some subgroup of G and always fails for the rest of the input
space). To ﬁx this issue, we randomize the solution by adding to it k random
elements from G that sum to 0. This transforms the solution into a random set
of k elements adding up to 0. We cannot do this directly because we do not
know where the solutions are. Instead, we pick a set of k random elements that
sum to 0, and add a random element from this set to each element in M. With
some small constant probability, we will then end up with the desired result of
a diﬀerent one of these added to each element of the solution.
Algorithm Aobf(M)
1. Sample a random permutation Π of [r].
2. Sample ei
$←G uniformly at random for 1 ≤i < k.
3. Set ek ←−k−1
i=1 ei.
4. Repeat kk · log r times :
4.1. Create a copy of the array M ′ ←M.
4.2. For each index j ∈{1, 2, . . . , r} :
4.2.1. Sample i
$←[k] uniformly at random
4.2.2. Set M ′[j] ←M[j] + ei.
4.3. Let K ←Arec(Π(M ′)) and K′ ←Π−1(K)
4.4. If 
i∈K′ M[i] = 0, return K′.
5. If a solution has not been found yet, return ⊥.
Assuming we can sample elements of the underlying group and perform group
operations in O(log |G|) time, the runtime of Aobf is O(kk log r(r log |G| + T)) =

O(kk · T), since log |G| = Θ(polylog(r)) and T = Ω(r).
Lemma 5.4. Let S be any set of indices in [r] of size k. Let V be any array of
elements of G of length k such that k
j=1 V [j] = 0. Recall that γ is the success
probability of Arec Then, for large enough r,
Pr
M∼Dperm

Aobf(M) succeeds | M[S] = V

≥γ
2
The proof of Lemma 5.4 can be found in the full version [4] (Fig. 3).

344
S. Agrawal et al.
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
M
S
S
S
S
S
S
Fig. 3. The Hamming graph representing the inner loop of Aamp(M). Each iteration
resamples a random entry of M and corresponds to taking a random step in the graph,
assuming this does not destroy the solution S. Intuitively, the oracle cannot consistently
fail on all the vertices we visit, and thus the process must eventually return the set S.
The proof of this statement amounts to bounding the edge expansion of this graph.
Success Ampliﬁcation. Our next step is amplifying the success probability
to almost 1. The main idea is replacing many of the entries of M with ran-
dom elements from G, and running Aobf on the result. If none of the entries
in the solution get replaced, we end up with an almost random array sampled
from DS,V
1
. Repeating this procedure enough times and utilizing the guaran-
tees provided by Aobf, we can amplify the success probability signiﬁcantly. The
algorithm on input M is formally described below.
Algorithm Aamp(M)
1. Repeat 64 log r
γ2k+2 times:
1.1. Make a new copy of M and call it M ′
1.2. Repeat r log 1
γ times:
1.2.1. Pick i uniformly at random from [r]
1.2.2. Replace M ′[i] with a random element from G diﬀerent from M ′[i]
1.3. Call Aobf(M ′)
1.4. If the previous call succeeds and returns a k-tuple that was unchanged
from M to M ′, return that.
It is easy to see that the algorithm never returns a wrong answer. Note that
the inner loop takes O(log |G| + log r) time if we assume that sampling from a
set takes time logarithmic in the size of that set. The outer loop takes 
O(kk·T)+

O

r log |G| log 1
γ + r log |G|
	
time since the runtime of Aobf is 
O(kk · T) (recall
that T was deﬁned as the runtime of Arec). Since log |G| = O(polylog(r)), 1
γ =
O(polylog(r)) and T = Ω(r), the expression simpliﬁes to 
O(kkT). The runtime
of the whole algorithm is therefore 
O

log r
γ2k+2
	
· 
O(kkT) = 
O

T ·

k/γ2k	
, as
desired. To analyze the success probability of Aamp, we start with a couple of
deﬁnitions.

k-SUM in the Sparse Regime: Complexity and Applications
345
Deﬁnition 5.3 (Correspondence Graph). For a permissible array M with
the k-SUM solution S ⊂[r], we deﬁne its correspondence graph GM as follows:
create a vertex for every array M ′ ∈Gr such that M[S] = M ′[S]. Two vertices
are connected by an edge if and only if the corresponding arrays only diﬀer in
one index.
Lemma 5.5 GM is isomorphic to the Hamming graph H(r −k, |G|) (see Deﬁ-
nition 5.1).
Note that if we are lucky enough to not destroy the solution while running the
inner loop, we end up taking r log 1
γ steps in this graph.
Deﬁnition 5.4. For a permissible array M, its correspondence power graph
G∗
M is a multigraph which has the same vertices as GM, and has t edges between
M1 and M2 where t is the number of paths of length r log 1
γ from M1 to M2 in
GM. In other words, we can obtain the adjacency matrix of G∗
M by raising the
adjacency matrix of GM to the power r log 1
γ .
Lemma 5.6. The algebraic expansion of G∗
M is ((r −k)(|G| −1) −|G|)r log 1
γ .
Proof. By Lemmas 5.2 and 5.5, we know that for GM, the highest eigenvalue
is (r −k)(|G| −1), the second highest eigenvalue is (r −k)(|G| −1) −|G|, and
the lowest eigenvalue is k −r. Note that raising a matrix to a certain power
also raises its eigenvalues to the same power, and the algebraic expansion of a
graph with eigenvalues λ1 ≥λ2 ≥· · · ≥λn is deﬁned as max(|λ2|, |λn|). Since
(r −k)(|G| −1) −|G| > r −k for any r > k, the lemma follows.
⊓⊔
Lemma 5.7. Each vertex of G∗
M has degree ((r −k)(|G| −1))r log 1
γ
Proof. Lemma 5.5 implies that GM is a regular graph of degree d = (r−k)(|G|−
1). Therefore, starting from any vertex v, there are exactly dl paths of length l.
By deﬁnition, this implies G∗
M is ((r −k)(|G| −1))r log 1
γ -regular.
⊓⊔
Note that taking r log 1
γ steps in GM is equivalent to taking 1 step in G∗
M.
Deﬁnition 5.5 (Good Vertices). We call an array X good if it is permissible
and Aobf has at least a γ
4 success probability on it.
Pr[Aobf(X) succeeds] ≥γ
4
We call a vertex good if it corresponds to a good array.
We show that a suﬃciently large fraction of the vertices of GM are good, in
this sense.

346
S. Agrawal et al.
Lemma 5.8. Let M be a large enough permissible array. At least a γ
8 fraction
of the vertices of GM are good.
The proof of Lemma 5.8 can be found in the full version [4].
Deﬁnition 5.6 (Bad Vertices). Let M be a permissible array. We call a vertex
X of G∗
M bad if it is permissible and less than
γ
16 of its outgoing edges connect
to a good vertex.
Similarly, we upper bound the fraction of bad vertices in the graph.
Lemma 5.9. Let M be a large enough permissible array. The fraction of bad
vertices in G∗
M is o

1
log r
	
.
The proof of this statement can be found in the full version [4]. We are now
ready to conclude our second step.
Lemma 5.10. The average-case success probability of Aamp is 1 −o

1
log r
	
.
This algorithm works at any Ω

1
polylog(r)
	
density Δ ≤
k log r
k log r+(α+1) log log r for
large enough r.
Proof. With probability 1 −o(γ) = 1 −o(1/ log r), the input array M is per-
missible (see Lemma 5.3). In that case, M has a unique solution. Lemma 5.9
tells us that among all arrays that contain this exact solution at this exact posi-
tion, only a o(1/ log r) fraction can be bad. So we can assume with probability
1 −o(1/ log r) that M has at least a
γ
16 fraction of its edges leading to good
vertices.
Each iteration of the outer loop of Aamp makes r log 1
γ replacements before
calling Aobf. The original solution is preserved if we choose one of the r−k entries
not in the solution at every step. This happens with probability (1 −k
r )r log 1
γ >
exp

−2k log 1
γ
	
= γ2k, since (1−1
t )t >
1
e2 for t > 2. Note that when we preserve
the solution, the inner loop takes one random step in G∗
M. With probability at
least
γ
16, this lands us into a good vertex where Aobf succeeds with probability
at least γ
4 . Thus, each iteration of the outer loop has a probability at least γ2k+2
64
of recovering the original solution for any input which is permissible and not a
bad vertex.
Observe that diﬀerent iterations of the outer loop are independent once we
condition on the input array. Since the outer loop runs 64 log r
γ2k+2 times, the proba-
bility of recovering the solution in at least one of the iterations is
1 −

1 −γ2k+2
64
(64 log r)

γ2k+2
> 1 −
1
exp (log(r)) = 1 −1
r = 1 −o

1
log r

⊓⊔

k-SUM in the Sparse Regime: Complexity and Applications
347
References
1. Abboud, A., Bringmann, K., Hermelin, D., Shabtay, D.: Seth-based lower bounds
for subset sum and bicriteria path. In: Chan, T.M. (ed.) Proceedings of the Thir-
tieth Annual ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms, SODA 2019, San
Diego, California, USA, 6–9 January 2019, pp. 41–57. SIAM (2019). https://doi.
org/10.1137/1.9781611975482.3
2. Abboud, A., Lewi, K.: Exact weight subgraphs and the k-sum conjecture. In:
Fomin, F.V., Freivalds, R., Kwiatkowska, M., Peleg, D. (eds.) ICALP 2013. LNCS,
vol. 7965, pp. 1–12. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
642-39206-1 1
3. Abboud, A., Williams, V.V.: Popular conjectures imply strong lower bounds for
dynamic problems. In: 2014 IEEE 55th Annual Symposium on Foundations of
Computer Science, pp. 434–443 (2014). https://doi.org/10.1109/FOCS.2014.53
4. Agrawal, S., Saha, S., Schwartzbach, N.I., Vanukuri, A., Vasudevan, P.N.: k-sum
in the sparse regime. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2023/488 (2023). https://
eprint.iacr.org/2023/488
5. Ailon, N., Chazelle, B.: Lower bounds for linear degeneracy testing. J. ACM 52(2),
157–171 (2005). https://doi.org/10.1145/1059513.1059515
6. Alekhnovich, M.: More on average case vs approximation complexity. In: 44th
Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS 2003), Cambridge, MA,
USA, 11–14 October 2003, Proceedings, pp. 298–307. IEEE Computer Society
(2003). https://doi.org/10.1109/SFCS.2003.1238204
7. Alon, N., Chung, F.: Explicit construction of linear sized tolerant networks. Dis-
cret. Math. 72(1), 15–19 (1988). https://doi.org/10.1016/0012-365X(88)90189-6.
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0012365X88901896
8. Applebaum, B., Barak, B., Wigderson, A.: Public-key cryptography from diﬀerent
assumptions. In: Schulman, L.J. (ed.) Proceedings of the 42nd ACM Symposium
on Theory of Computing, STOC 2010, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA, 5–8 June
2010, pp. 171–180. ACM (2010). https://doi.org/10.1145/1806689.1806715
9. Ball, M., Rosen, A., Sabin, M., Vasudevan, P.N.: Average-case ﬁne-grained hard-
ness. In: Proceedings of the 49th Annual ACM SIGACT Symposium on Theory of
Computing, STOC 2017, pp. 483–496. Association for Computing Machinery, New
York (2017). https://doi.org/10.1145/3055399.3055466
10. Ball, M., Rosen, A., Sabin, M., Vasudevan, P.N.: Proofs of work from worst-case
assumptions. In: Shacham, H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2018. LNCS, vol.
10991, pp. 789–819. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
96884-1 26
11. Barak, B., Dodis, Y., Krawczyk, H., Pereira, O., Pietrzak, K., Standaert, F.-X.,
Yu, Yu.: Leftover hash lemma, revisited. In: Rogaway, P. (ed.) CRYPTO 2011.
LNCS, vol. 6841, pp. 1–20. Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-642-22792-9 1
12. Baran, I., Demaine, E.D., Pˇatra¸scu, M.: Subquadratic algorithms for 3sum. Algo-
rithmica 50(4), 584–596 (2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/s00453-007-9036-3
13. Barequet, G., Har-Peled, S.: Polygon containment and translational min-hausdorﬀ-
distance between segment sets are 3sum-hard. Int. J. Comput. Geometry Appl. 11,
465–474 (2001). https://doi.org/10.1142/S0218195901000596
14. Becker, A., Coron, J.-S., Joux, A.: Improved generic algorithms for hard knap-
sacks. In: Paterson, K.G. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2011. LNCS, vol. 6632, pp. 364–385.
Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-20465-4 21

348
S. Agrawal et al.
15. Berthet, Q., Rigollet, P.: Complexity theoretic lower bounds for sparse princi-
pal component detection. In: Annual Conference Computational Learning Theory
(2013)
16. Berthet, Q., Rigollet, P.: Optimal detection of sparse principal components in
high dimension. Ann. Stat. 41(4), 1780–1815 (2013). https://doi.org/10.1214/13-
AOS1127
17. Blum, A., Kalai, A., Wasserman, H.: Noise-tolerant learning, the parity problem,
and the statistical query model. J. ACM 50(4), 506–519 (2003). https://doi.org/
10.1145/792538.792543
18. Boix-Adser`a, E., Brennan, M.S., Bresler, G.: The average-case complexity of count-
ing cliques in erd˝os-r´enyi hypergraphs. In: Zuckerman, D. (ed.) 60th IEEE Annual
Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science, FOCS 2019, Baltimore, Mary-
land, USA, 9–12 November 2019, pp. 1256–1280. IEEE Computer Society (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1109/FOCS.2019.00078
19. Bouillaguet, C., Delaplace, C., Joux, A.: Algorithms for sparse random 3XOR:
the low-density case (2021), https://hal.science/hal-02306917. Working paper or
preprint
20. Brakerski, Z., Stephens-Davidowitz, N., Vaikuntanathan, V.: On the hard-
ness of average-case k-sum. In: Wootters, M., Sanit`a, L. (eds.) Approxima-
tion, Randomization, and Combinatorial Optimization. Algorithms and Tech-
niques, APPROX/RANDOM 2021, University of Washington, Seattle, Washing-
ton, USA (Virtual Conference), 16–18 August 2021. LIPIcs, vol. 207, pp. 29:1–
29:19. Schloss Dagstuhl - Leibniz-Zentrum f¨ur Informatik (2021). https://doi.org/
10.4230/LIPIcs.APPROX/RANDOM.2021.29
21. Bringmann, K.: A near-linear pseudopolynomial time algorithm for subset sum. In:
Klein, P.N. (ed.) Proceedings of the Twenty-Eighth Annual ACM-SIAM Sympo-
sium on Discrete Algorithms, SODA 2017, Barcelona, Spain, Hotel Porta Fira,
16–19 January 2017, pp. 1073–1084. SIAM (2017). https://doi.org/10.1137/1.
9781611974782.69
22. Brzuska, C., Couteau, G.: On building ﬁne-grained one-way functions from strong
average-case hardness. In: Dunkelman, O., Dziembowski, S. (eds.) Advances in
Cryptology - EUROCRYPT 2022 - 41st Annual International Conference on the
Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques, Trondheim, Norway, 30
May–3 June 2022, Proceedings, Part II. LNCS, vol. 13276, pp. 584–613. Springer,
Heidelberg (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-07085-3 20
23. Carmosino, M.L., Gao, J., Impagliazzo, R., Mihajlin, I., Paturi, R., Schneider, S.:
Nondeterministic extensions of the strong exponential time hypothesis and con-
sequences for non-reducibility. In: Proceedings of the 2016 ACM Conference on
Innovations in Theoretical Computer Science, ITCS 2016, pp. 261-270. Association
for Computing Machinery, New York (2016). https://doi.org/10.1145/2840728.
2840746
24. Chan, T.M.: More logarithmic-factor speedups for 3sum, (median, +)-convolution,
and some geometric 3sum-hard problems. ACM Trans. Algor. 16(1), 7:1–7:23
(2020). https://doi.org/10.1145/3363541
25. Chung, E., Larsen, K.G.: Stronger 3sum-indexing lower bounds. In: Bansal, N.,
Nagarajan, V. (eds.) Proceedings of the 2023 ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete
Algorithms, SODA 2023, Florence, Italy, 22–25 January 2023, pp. 444–455. SIAM
(2023). https://doi.org/10.1137/1.9781611977554.ch19
26. Dalirrooyfard, M., Lincoln, A., Williams, V.V.: New techniques for proving ﬁne-
grained average-case hardness. In: Irani, S. (ed.) 61st IEEE Annual Symposium on

k-SUM in the Sparse Regime: Complexity and Applications
349
Foundations of Computer Science, FOCS 2020, Durham, NC, USA, 16–19 Novem-
ber 2020, pp. 774–785. IEEE (2020). https://doi.org/10.1109/FOCS46700.2020.
00077
27. Dam, E.R.V., Koolen, J.H., Tanaka, H.: Distance-regular graphs. Electron. J.
Comb. 1000 (2016). https://doi.org/10.37236/4925
28. Dietzfelbinger, M., Schlag, P., Walzer, S.: A subquadratic algorithm for 3xor.
In: Potapov, I., Spirakis, P.G., Worrell, J. (eds.) 43rd International Symposium
on Mathematical Foundations of Computer Science, MFCS 2018, Liverpool, UK,
27–31 August 2018. LIPIcs, vol. 117, pp. 59:1–59:15. Schloss Dagstuhl - Leibniz-
Zentrum f¨ur Informatik (2018). https://doi.org/10.4230/LIPIcs.MFCS.2018.59
29. Dinur, I.: An algorithmic framework for the generalized birthday problem. Des.
Codes Cryptogr. 87(8), 1897–1926 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/s10623-018-
00594-6
30. Dinur, I., Keller, N., Klein, O.: Fine-grained cryptanalysis: tight conditional bounds
for dense k-sum and k-xor. In: 62nd IEEE Annual Symposium on Foundations of
Computer Science, FOCS 2021, Denver, CO, USA, 7–10 February 2022, pp. 80–91.
IEEE (2021). https://doi.org/10.1109/FOCS52979.2021.00017
31. Erickson, J.: Lower bounds for linear satisﬁability problems. In: Clarkson, K.L.
(ed.) Proceedings of the Sixth Annual ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete
Algorithms, San Francisco, California, USA, 22–24 January 1995, pp. 388–395.
ACM/SIAM (1995). http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=313651.313772
32. Esser, A., K¨ubler, R., May, A.: LPN decoded. In: Katz, J., Shacham, H. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2017. LNCS, vol. 10402, pp. 486–514. Springer, Cham (2017). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-63715-0 17
33. Gajentaan, A., Overmars, M.H.: On a class of o(n2) problems in compu-
tational geometry. Comput. Geom. 5(3), 165–185 (1995). https://doi.org/10.
1016/0925-7721(95)00022-2.
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
0925772195000222
34. Gamarnik, D., Zadik, I.: The landscape of the planted clique problem: dense
subgraphs and the overlap gap property. CoRR http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.07174
(2019)
35. Gold, O., Sharir, M.: Improved Bounds for 3SUM, k-SUM, and Linear Degen-
eracy. In: Pruhs, K., Sohler, C. (eds.) 25th Annual European Symposium
on Algorithms (ESA 2017). Leibniz International Proceedings in Informatics
(LIPIcs), vol. 87, pp. 42:1–42:13. Schloss Dagstuhl–Leibniz-Zentrum fuer Infor-
matik, Dagstuhl (2017). https://doi.org/10.4230/LIPIcs.ESA.2017.42. http://
drops.dagstuhl.de/opus/volltexte/2017/7836
36. Goldreich, O., Levin, L.A.: A hard-core predicate for all one-way functions. In: Pro-
ceedings of the Twenty-First Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing,
pp. 25–32 (1989)
37. Goldreich, O., Rothblum, G.N.: Counting t-cliques: worst-case to average-case
reductions and direct interactive proof systems. In: Thorup, M. (ed.) 59th IEEE
Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science, FOCS 2018, Paris,
France, 7–9 October 2018, pp. 77–88. IEEE Computer Society (2018). https://
doi.org/10.1109/FOCS.2018.00017
38. Golovnev, A., Guo, S., Horel, T., Park, S., Vaikuntanathan, V.: Data structures
meet cryptography: 3sum with preprocessing. In: Makarychev, K., Makarychev, Y.,
Tulsiani, M., Kamath, G., Chuzhoy, J. (eds.) Proceedings of the 52nd Annual ACM
SIGACT Symposium on Theory of Computing, STOC 2020, Chicago, IL, USA, 22–
26 June 2020, pp. 294–307. ACM (2020). https://doi.org/10.1145/3357713.3384342

350
S. Agrawal et al.
39. Grønlund, A., Pettie, S.: Threesomes, degenerates, and love triangles. J. ACM
65(4) (2018). https://doi.org/10.1145/3185378
40. Gupte, A., Vaikuntanathan, V.: The ﬁne-grained hardness of sparse linear regres-
sion. CoRR (2021). https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.03131
41. Hirahara, S., Shimizu, N.: Hardness self-ampliﬁcation: simpliﬁed, optimized, and
uniﬁed. Electron. Colloquium Comput. Complex. TR23-026 (2023). https://eccc.
weizmann.ac.il/report/2023/026
42. Horowitz, E., Sahni, S.: Computing partitions with applications to the knapsack
problem. J. ACM 21(2), 277–292 (1974). https://doi.org/10.1145/321812.321823
43. H˚Astad, J., Impagliazzo, R., Levin, L.A., Luby, M.: A pseudorandom generator
from any one-way function. SIAM J. Comput. 28(4), 1364–1396 (1999). https://
doi.org/10.1137/S0097539793244708
44. Impagliazzo, R.: A personal view of average-case complexity. In: Proceedings of
Structure in Complexity Theory. Tenth Annual IEEE Conference, pp. 134–147.
IEEE (1995)
45. Impagliazzo, R., Jaiswal, R., Kabanets, V., Wigderson, A.: Uniform direct product
theorems: simpliﬁed, optimized, and derandomized. SIAM J. Comput. 39(4), 1637–
1665 (2010). https://doi.org/10.1137/080734030
46. Impagliazzo, R., Naor, M.: Eﬃcient cryptographic schemes provably as secure as
subset sum. In: 30th Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science,
Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, USA, 30 October–1 November 1989,
pp. 236–241. IEEE Computer Society (1989). https://doi.org/10.1109/SFCS.1989.
63484
47. Jerrum, M.: Large cliques elude the metropolis process. Rand. Struct. Algor. 3(4),
347–360 (1992). https://doi.org/10.1002/rsa.3240030402
48. Jin, C., Wu, H.: A simple near-linear pseudopolynomial time randomized algorithm
for subset sum. In: Fineman, J.T., Mitzenmacher, M. (eds.) 2nd Symposium on
Simplicity in Algorithms, SOSA 2019, San Diego, CA, USA, 8–9 January 2019.
OASIcs, vol. 69, pp. 17:1–17:6. Schloss Dagstuhl - Leibniz-Zentrum f¨ur Informatik
(2019). https://doi.org/10.4230/OASIcs.SOSA.2019.17
49. Juels, A., Peinado, M.: Hiding cliques for cryptographic security. Des. Codes Crypt.
20(3), 269–280 (2000)
50. Katz, J., Shin, J.S., Smith, A.: Parallel and concurrent security of the HB and
HB+ protocols. J. Cryptol. 23(3), 402–421 (2010)
51. Kopelowitz, T., Pettie, S., Porat, E.: Higher lower bounds from the 3sum con-
jecture. In: Proceedings of the Twenty-Seventh Annual ACM-SIAM Symposium
on Discrete Algorithms, SODA 2016, pp. 1272–1287. Society for Industrial and
Applied Mathematics, USA (2016)
52. Kopelowitz, T., Porat, E.: The strong 3sum-indexing conjecture is false. CoRR
http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.11206 (2019)
53. Lagarias, J.C., Odlyzko, A.M.: Solving low-density subset sum problems. J. ACM
32(1), 229–246 (1985). https://doi.org/10.1145/2455.2461
54. LaVigne, R., Lincoln, A., Vassilevska Williams, V.: Public-key cryptography in
the ﬁne-grained setting. In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio, D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019.
LNCS, vol. 11694, pp. 605–635. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-26954-8 20
55. Leurent, G., Sibleyras, F.: Low-memory attacks against two-round even-mansour
using the 3-XOR problem. In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio, D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019.
LNCS, vol. 11693, pp. 210–235. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-26951-7 8

k-SUM in the Sparse Regime: Complexity and Applications
351
56. Lindner, R., Peikert, C.: Better key sizes (and attacks) for LWE-based encryp-
tion. In: Kiayias, A. (ed.) CT-RSA 2011. LNCS, vol. 6558, pp. 319–339. Springer,
Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-19074-2 21
57. Lyubashevsky, V., Palacio, A., Segev, G.: Public-key cryptographic primitives
provably as secure as subset sum. In: Micciancio, D. (ed.) TCC 2010. LNCS,
vol. 5978, pp. 382–400. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-642-11799-2 23
58. Minder, L., Sinclair, A.: The extended k-tree algorithm. J. Cryptol. 25(2), 349–382
(2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/s00145-011-9097-y
59. Nandi, M.: Revisiting security claims of XLS and COPA. IACR Cryptol. ePrint
Arch., p. 444 (2015). http://eprint.iacr.org/2015/444
60. Nikoli´c, I., Sasaki, Yu.: Reﬁnements of the k-tree algorithm for the generalized
birthday problem. In: Iwata, T., Cheon, J.H. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2015. LNCS,
vol. 9453, pp. 683–703. Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-662-48800-3 28
61. Patrascu, M.: Towards polynomial lower bounds for dynamic problems. In: Pro-
ceedings of the Forty-Second ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, STOC
2010, pp. 603–610. Association for Computing Machinery, New York (2010).
https://doi.org/10.1145/1806689.1806772
62. Patrascu, M., Williams, R.: On the possibility of faster SAT algorithms. In:
Charikar, M. (ed.) Proceedings of the Twenty-First Annual ACM-SIAM Sympo-
sium on Discrete Algorithms, SODA 2010, Austin, Texas, USA, 17–19 January
2010, pp. 1065–1075. SIAM (2010). https://doi.org/10.1137/1.9781611973075.86
63. Pettie, S.: Higher Lower Bounds from the 3SUM Conjecture, talk at the Com-
putational Complexity of Low-Polynomial Time Problems workshop at the
Simons Institute (2015). https://simons.berkeley.edu/talks/higher-lower-bounds-
3sum-conjecture
64. Regev, O.: On lattices, learning with errors, random linear codes, and cryptogra-
phy. J. ACM 56(6) (2009). https://doi.org/10.1145/1568318.1568324
65. Soss, M., Erickson, J., Overmars, M.: Preprocessing chains for fast dihedral rota-
tions is hard or even impossible. Comput. Geom. 26(3), 235–246 (2003). https://
doi.org/10.1016/S0925-7721(02)00156-6. https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S0925772102001566
66. Trevisan, L.: Some applications of coding theory in computational complexity.
arXiv preprint cs/0409044 (2004)
67. Wagner, D.: A generalized birthday problem. In: Yung, M. (ed.) CRYPTO 2002.
LNCS, vol. 2442, pp. 288–304. Springer, Heidelberg (2002). https://doi.org/10.
1007/3-540-45708-9 19
68. Williams, V.V.: On some ﬁne-grained questions in algorithms and complexity. In:
Proceedings of the ICM, vol. 3, pp. 3431–3472. World Scientiﬁc (2018)
69. Yu, Yu., Zhang, J.: Cryptography with auxiliary input and trapdoor from constant-
noise LPN. In: Robshaw, M., Katz, J. (eds.) CRYPTO 2016. LNCS, vol. 9814, pp.
214–243. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53018-
4 9

