Learning with Physical Rounding
for Linear and Quadratic Leakage
Functions
Cl´ement Hoﬀmann1, Pierrick M´eaux2(B), Charles Momin1, Yann Rotella3,
Fran¸cois-Xavier Standaert1, and Balazs Udvarhelyi1
1 Crypto Group, ICTEAM Institute, UCLouvain, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium
fstandae@uclouvain.be
2 Luxembourg University, SnT, Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg
pierrick.meaux@uni.lu
3 Universit´e Paris-Saclay, UVSQ, CNRS, Laboratoire de math´ematiques de
Versailles, 78000 Versailles, France
Abstract. Fresh re-keying is a countermeasure against side-channel anal-
ysis where an ephemeral key is derived from a long-term key using a public
random value. Popular instances of such schemes rely on key-homomorphic
primitives, so that the re-keying process is easy to mask and the rest of
the (e.g., block cipher) computations can run with cheaper countermea-
sures. The main requirement for these schemes to be secure is that the
leakages of the ephemeral keys do not allow recovering the long-term key.
The Learning with Physical Rounding (LWPR) problem formalizes this
security in a practically-relevant model where the adversary can observe
noise-free leakages. It can be viewed as a physical version of the Learn-
ing With Rounding (LWR) problem, where the rounding is performed by
a leakage function and therefore does not have to be computed explic-
itly. In this paper, we ﬁrst consolidate the intuition that LWPR cannot
be secure in a serial implementation context without additional counter-
measures (like shuﬄing), due to attacks exploiting worst-case leakages that
can be mounted with practical data complexity. We then extend the under-
standing of LWPR in a parallel implementation setting. On the one hand,
we generalize its robustness against cryptanalysis taking advantage of any
(i.e., not only worst-case) leakage. A previous work claimed security in the
speciﬁc context of a Hamming weight leakage function. We clarify nec-
essary conditions to maintain this guarantee, based on the degree of the
leakage function and the accuracy of its coeﬃcients. On the other hand,
we show that parallelism inherently provides good security against attacks
exploiting worst-case leakages. We ﬁnally conﬁrm the practical relevance of
these ﬁndings by validating our assumptions experimentally for an exem-
plary implementation.
1
Introduction
Hard learning problems have been shown to be an important source of cryp-
tographic hardness [Reg10,Pie12]. Popular instances of such problems include
Learning Parity with Noise (LPN), Learning With Errors (LWE), which is a
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2023
H. Handschuh and A. Lysyanskaya (Eds.): CRYPTO 2023, LNCS 14083, pp. 410–439, 2023.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-38548-3_14

Learning with Physical Rounding for Linear [...] Leakage Functions
411
generalization to larger moduli [Reg05], and Learning With Rounding (LWR),
which is a deterministic version [BPR12]. They have found many applications for
the design of basic cryptographic primitives such as eﬃcient authentication pro-
tocols [HB01,HKL+12] or pseudorandom functions [YS16], and advanced cryp-
tographic primitives such as identity-based [GPV08,CHKP10] or fully homo-
morphic [Gen09,BV11] encryption. They have also gained particular interest in
the context of post-quantum cryptography, as witnessed by the signature scheme
CRYSTALS-Dilithium [DKL+18] and the encryption scheme CRYSTALS-Kyber
[BDK+18], which have been selected by the NIST to become future standards.1
Furthermore, their algebraic structure makes a (key-homomorphic) part of their
implementation quite amenable to masking against side-channel attacks. Yet,
protecting the error generation part remains a challenge, whether in the case
of probabilistic (e.g., LPN-based) or deterministic (LWR-based) designs. This
is because the noise generation itself can become the target of a side-channel
attack [GLS14], and the rounding functions needed for the deterministic designs
to be secure are non-linear and therefore more diﬃcult to mask [BGL+14].
Hard physical learning problems have been introduced as a possible rem-
edy to these implementation issues. Conceptually, their goal is to leverage the
physical features of an implementation in order to generate errors or to round,
as required to implement primitives based on hard learning problems. A typi-
cal application of such physical problems is fresh re-keying against side-channel
attacks [MSGR10], of which the goal is to generate an ephemeral (e.g., block
cipher) key thanks to an easy-to-protect operation. Various pieces of work stud-
ied the cryptanalysis of such schemes instantiated with a binary ﬁeld multipli-
cation [BFG14,BCF+15,PM16,GJ19]. Dziembowski et al. proved the security
of binary re-keying based on a Learning Parity with Leakage (LPL) problem
that reduces to the standard LPN problem [DFH+16]. Unfortunately, the con-
crete level of noise in the leakages needed for their proof that LPL is secure was
shown to be quite high. More recently, Duval et al. showed that it is possible to
design re-keying schemes based on a Learning With Physical Rounding (LWPR)
problem [DMMS21]. Here, the main observation is that many practical leakage
functions, such as the Hamming weight one [MOP07], are non-injective. It is
therefore tempting to let the leakage function perform the rounding, removing
the hassle of computing this rounding explicitly and protecting it against side-
channel attacks. Non-injectivity alone (i.e., without noise nor further constraints
on the ﬁeld in which computations take place) is known to be insuﬃcient. For
example, in binary ﬁelds the Hamming weight of a secret value provides a linear
equation of its bits. But combining a non-injective leakage function with compu-
tations in a prime ﬁeld was suggested as a possible source of “crypto-physical”
hardness, emulating Boneh et al.’s cryptographic dark matter [BIP+18].
It is easy to see that practically-relevant secure LWPR instances could be a
game changer for the secure implementations of cryptographic algorithms. First,
masked block ciphers usually incur performance overheads that are quadratic
in the number of shares [ISW03,GR17]. By contrast, the cost of masked key-
homomorphic primitives scales linearly in this number and can beneﬁt from
simple refreshing schemes (with linear randomness requirements) [BDF+17].
1 https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/post-quantum-cryptography.

412
C. Hoﬀmann et al.
Second, the analysis of key-homomorphic primitives in the probing model is
trivial and does not raise composability issues since, as for linear functions, their
computation can be implemented share by share and is therefore probe-isolating
non-interferent [CS20]. Third, they intrinsically mitigate the risks of security
ﬂaws caused by physical defaults like glitches [MPG05] or transitions [CGP+12]
that can lead to shares re-combinations, thanks to the independent manipulation
of the shares they allow [CS21]. Eventually, is was recently hinted that they also
have good potential to signiﬁcantly improve the performance vs. side-channel
security tradeoﬀof CCA-secure public key encryption schemes [HLM+23]. The
latter is well-motivated given the acknowledged diﬃculty to protect schemes like
CRYSTALS-Kyber against side-channel attacks [RRCB20,NDGJ21,UXT+22].
All these reasons give a strong incentive for understanding the security of the
LWPR assumption under realistic leakage functions. The CHES 2021 work of
Duval et al. made a ﬁrst step in this direction by analyzing LWPR in the mean-
ingful though speciﬁc case of Hamming weight leakages, and proposed parallel
(FPGA) implementations processing 124 bits per cycle as a ﬁrst cryptanalysis
target. This investigation therefore suggested as fundamental problem the anal-
ysis of leakage functions that (even slightly) deviate from the Hamming weight
case, while also leaving doubts regarding the possibility to ensure the security
of LWPR in a serial (e.g., 32-bit software) implementation context.
In this paper, we contribute to these problems in three main directions.
As an appetizer, we conﬁrm the intuition that securing LWPR in a serial
implementation context requires additional side-channel countermeasures. This
is because attacks exploiting so-called worst-case leakages can then be mounted
with practical data complexity. By worst-case leakages, we mean the most infor-
mative values provided by the leakage function (e.g., the extreme ones in the
Hamming weight case). This observation suggests the use of shuﬄing as a nat-
ural complement to serial LWPR which, if well implemented, has the eﬀect of
emulating a parallel implementation [HOM06,VMKS12,UBS21]. It also allows
us to focus the rest of our investigations on parallel LWPR instances.
Next, we generalize the security of the LWPR assumption beyond the Ham-
ming weight function. For this purpose, we ﬁrst consider attacks taking advan-
tage of any value of the leakage function, which we denote as “any-case leak-
ages” in the paper. We show that security against algebraic cryptanalysis is
preserved in the practical context of linear leakage functions (i.e., functions that
can be expressed as a weighted sum of the bits manipulated by an implemen-
tation) [SLP05], under reasonable conditions on the accuracy of the weights.
We also argue that these guarantees can be extended towards higher-order (e.g.,
quadratic) leakage functions. We then show that attacks exploiting worst-case
leakages (used to rule out unprotected serial LWPR instances) can be prevented
in the parallel case, with similar assumptions as to resist any-case leakages.
We combine these investigations with experiments conﬁrming the practical
relevance of our assumptions for realistic hardware implementations. As a result,
we make a crucial step towards making deterministic hard physical learning
problems a credible alternative to secure cryptographic implementations. And
we conclude the paper by identifying interesting scopes for further research.

Learning with Physical Rounding for Linear [...] Leakage Functions
413
We note that the security of LWPR with linear or quadratic leakage functions
relies on diﬀerent arguments than previously used for similar constructions. For
example in [DMMS21], the high-level idea behind the hardness of LWPR with
Hamming weight leakages is that the composition of linear functions in diﬀer-
ent structures is suﬃcient to provide security. This holds since the composition
gives functions with good cryptographic parameters in both initial structures.
It corresponds to the main conclusion of Boneh et al.’s cryptographic dark mat-
ter [BIP+18] which proposes PRF constructions by only combining additions
modulus p and modulus q for any pair of diﬀerent primes p and q. The same
general idea has been reused recently in [DGH+21]. In the case of LWPR with
linear or quadratic leakage functions, additionally to the composition of func-
tions over two diﬀerent structures, good cryptographic properties are obtained
directly from the non-injectivity of one of the functions. This new insight allows
us to generalize the results to more functions and to strengthen their connection
to practice, since the non-injectivity of a leakage function is typically something
that can be characterized by existing side-channel evaluation setups & tools.
2
Background
2.1
Learning with Physical Rounding
We ﬁrst deﬁne the LWPR assumption introduced in [DMMS21]. For this purpose,
let us consider a secret matrix K ∈Fm×n
2
and a public vector r ∈Fn
2. The work
of Boneh et al. on cryptographic dark matter showed that a low-complexity
wPRF FK (r) can be obtained by computing the product K · r, interpreting its
output as a vector of 0/1 values over F3 and rounding it. Precisely:
FK (r) := map(K · r),
where the proposed mapping was the sum of this vector of 0/1 values modulo
3 [BIP+18]. The idea of Duval et al. is to replace this mathematical mapping
by a physical one (the leakage function) that is formalized as follows.
First, it is assumed that the leaking device computes on binary-represented
data: each value in Fp is therefore represented with (at least) ⌈log p⌉bits. We
denote as g : Fp →{0, 1}⌈log p⌉the function associating to each element y of
Fp the binary representation of its representative in [0, p −1]. We also deﬁne
gm : Fm
p →{0, 1}m⌈log p⌉as: gm(y) := g(y1)||g(y2)|| . . . ||g(ym). This assumption
is quite generic and captures the reality of most embedded computing devices
deployed in current applications. Next, a more specialized assumption is required
to deﬁne how the physical (noise-free) leakages depend on the m⌈log p⌉bits
provided by gm. This role will be played by the leakage function. We denote the
leakage function computed on the binary representation of the manipulated data
as Lg(.). The generic LWPR problem is then deﬁned as follows:
Deﬁnition 1 (Learning with physical rounding). Let p, n, m ∈N∗, p
prime, for K ∈Fm×(n+1)
p
. The LWPRn,m
Lg,p sample distribution is given by:

414
C. Hoﬀmann et al.
DLWPRn,m
Lg,p :=

r, Lg(K ⊡r)

for r ∈Fn
p uniformly random, where K ⊡r =
K · (r, 1) and Lg : Fm
p →Rnd is the physical rounding function. Given query
access to DLWPRn,m
Lg,p for a uniformly random K, the LWPRn,m
Lg,p problem is
(q, τ, μ, ϵ)-hard to solve if after the observation of q LWPR samples, no adver-
sary can recover the key K with time complexity τ, memory complexity μ and
probability higher than ϵ.
Duval et al. analyzed the case of Hamming weight leakages as a ﬁrst step.
The Hamming weight function is deﬁned on any vector v of length t ∈N∗with
coeﬃcients in {0, 1} as Mh(v) = t
i=1 vi, where the sum is performed in Z.
They additionally considered two implementation contexts. In the serial case,
the adversary is provided with m leakages on ⌈log p⌉bits:
Ms
h(y) : y →

Mh

g(y1)

, Mh

g(y2)

, . . . , Mh

g(ym)

.
In the parallel case, she receives the sum of these m values, denoted as Mp
h(y).
The LWPR instance proposed by Duval et al. uses a Mersenne prime p =
231 −1. It aims at the generation of 124-bit fresh keys in the parallel case and
therefore considers m = 4. As for the main security parameter n, their analysis
suggested (n + 1) log(p) + 3 log(n) ≥124 as a lower bound. This led the authors
to select n = 4 as a ﬁrst target for further cryptanalytic investigations.
2.2
Regression-Based Side-Channel Analysis
Linear regression is among the most popular tools for proﬁling a side-channel
leakage model. Originally introduced by Schindler et al. [SLP05], it has been
rapidly established as an eﬃcient alternative to template attacks [GLP06]. Its
main idea is to approximate the deterministic part of the leakage function as a
weighted sum of nb well-chosen basis function that we denote as βi:
Mr(v) =
nb

i=1
ai · βi(v),
with the ai’s ∈R. For a t-bit value v, a typical choice is to consider nb = t
and to use the bits of v as basis functions.2 We will denote the resulting class
of leakage functions as linear models Mr1(v), which generalizes Hamming weight
leakages where ai = 1 ∀1 ≤i ≤nb. The model can be reﬁned by adding more
basis functions. Typically, we can add the
t
δ

basis functions of degree δ, which
we denote as quadratic leakage models Mr2(v) when δ = 2, cubic leakage models
Mr3(v) when δ = 3, . . . , until the bijective model Mrt where δ = t and nb = 2t.
Proﬁling a leakage model then essentially boils down to estimate the vector of
coeﬃcients a, by applying the least square method. For this purpose, the evalu-
ator ﬁrst collects a vector of np proﬁling traces l = [l1, l2, . . . , lnp], corresponding
2 Or nb = t + 1, with a constant term to capture DC eﬀects in the measurements.

Learning with Physical Rounding for Linear [...] Leakage Functions
415
to values v1, v2, . . . , vnp. She then builds a np × nb matrix:
B =
⎛
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎝
β1(v1) β2(v1) · · · βnb(v1)
β1(v2) β2(v2) · · · βnb(v2)
...
...
...
...
β1(vnp) β2(vnp) · · · βnb(vnp)
⎞
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎠·
Eventually, the vector of coeﬃcients minimizing the means square error is:
ˆa = [ ˆa1, ˆa2, . . . , ˆ
anb] = (BT · B)−1 · BT · l.
We note that the analysis in [SLP05] considers noisy leakages and therefore
adds a probabilistic component to the previous deterministic function. We do
not detail this part since LWPR (conservatively) assumes noise-free leakages.
2.3
Correlation-Based Security Evaluations
Given a leakage model, the main question of a side-channel security evaluation
is to determine the number of attack traces needed to recover a key [SMY09].
In the context of univariate leakage functions that we consider in this paper,
Pearson’s correlation is among the most popular evaluation tools [BCO04]. We
next describe the basic approximations we will use in our empirical analyses.
Let us ﬁrst denote a vector of na attack values v = [v1, v2, . . . , vna]. From
those values, an evaluator can compute the modeled leakage vector:
m = [Mr(v1), Mr(v2), . . . , Mr(vna)].
Similarly, she can measure a vector of actual leakage traces l = [l1, l2, . . . , lna].
Viewing these vectors as na samples of random variables M and L, the data
complexity of a Correlation Power Analysis (CPA) is given by [Man04]:
N =
c
ˆρ(M, L)2 ,
where c is a small constant and ˆρ denotes Pearson’s correlation coeﬃcient.
In our experimental evaluations, we will in particular be interested by the
comparison between diﬀerent leakage models, with the goal to evaluate whether
simplifying a model (e.g., by limiting its degree or quantizing it) results in a
signiﬁcant information loss. Pearson’s correlation is convenient for this purpose.
For example, let us assume a model M1 that is a simpliﬁcation of a model M2,
leading to model errors captured by a random variable E so that M1 = M2 +E.
Then, thanks to the correlation chain rule given in [SPRQ06] we have:
ˆρ(M1, L) = ˆρ(M1, M2) · ˆρ(M2, L).
As a result, the increase of data complexity that is due to simplifying the model
M2 into M1 is reﬂected by the factor f =
1
ˆρ(M1,M2)2 : if f ≈1 the attack using the
simpliﬁed model is close to the one using the complex model; if f > 1 the simpler
model misses some leakage features and the attack using this model requires f
times more traces than the attack using the more complex model.

416
C. Hoﬀmann et al.
2.4
Cryptographic Criteria and p-Ary Functions
Since the re-keying scheme we consider in this paper is linear over Fp, we will
study the properties of the leakage function embedded in Fp that a side-channel
adversary can obtain. For this purpose, we adapt tools from the analysis of
cryptographic criteria for Boolean functions from Fn
2 to F2 (e.g., [Car21]) and
study the cryptographic properties of functions from Fn
p to Fp.
Deﬁnition 2 (p-ary function). For p a prime, a p-ary function f in n vari-
ables (an n-variable p-ary function) is a function from Fn
p to Fp. The set of all
p-ary functions in n variables is denoted by Fp,n, and |Fp,n| = ppn.
Deﬁnition 3 (Algebraic normal form and degree (e.g.,
[Hou18])). We
call Algebraic Normal Form (ANF) of a p-ary function f its n-variable polyno-
mial representation over Fp belonging to Fp[x1, . . . , xn]/(xp
1 −x1, . . . , xp
n −xn):
f(x) =

S⊂[0,p−1]n
aS
⎛
⎝
i∈[1,n]
xSi
i
⎞
⎠=

S⊂[0,p−1]n
aSxS,
where aS ∈Fp. The ANF of f is unique, and the algebraic degree of f is deﬁned
as deg(f) =
max
{S | aS̸=0}
n

i=1
Si (with the convention that deg(0) = 0).
Deﬁnition 4 (Nonlinearity). The nonlinearity nl(f) of a p-ary function f ∈
Fp,n, is the minimum Hamming distance between f and all the aﬃne functions
in Fp,n:
nl(f) =
min
g, deg(g)≤1{dH(f, g)},
where dH(f, g) is the Hamming distance |{x
∈
Fn
p
|
f(x)
̸=
g(x)}|
between f and g.
3
Appetizer: Threat Model and Serial LWPR
Before describing our technical contributions, we quickly recall the threat model
we consider, which is illustrated in Fig. 1. We also come back on the impact of
an attack against serial LWPR instances outlined in the appendix of [DMMS21],
by specializing it to the case of a Hamming weight function for simplicity. We
use this example for two purposes: ﬁrst, conﬁrming that securing serial LWPR
instances requires additional countermeasures; second: introducing the diﬀerence
between attacks using worst-case leakages and any-case leakages.
In brief, the idea of fresh re-keying schemes is that it is possible to eﬃciently
mask their key-homomorphic part (i.e., the product between the secret matrix K
and the public vector r) and to recombine the output of this product for which
the adversary can only observe the leakage. In other words, the multiplication
we consider in Deﬁnition 1 will be performed on the shares K1, K2, . . . , Kq and
then recombined such that the fresh key is K ⊡r = q
i=1

Ki ⊡r

.

Learning with Physical Rounding for Linear [...] Leakage Functions
417
Fig. 1. Fresh re-keying with LWPR: threat model.
This fresh key will then be used without masking for a single (e.g., block
cipher) encryption, which is expected to be signiﬁcantly harder to break than
if using the long-term key multiple times with the same cipher. As a result,
there are two natural attack paths against such re-keying schemes. The ﬁrst
one (depicted in gray on Fig. 1) is to target the masked product. Evaluating it
can be done with standard side-channel analysis techniques, enjoying the advan-
tages listed in introduction (linear overheads, no composability issues, resistance
against glitches). The analysis of this attack path given in [DMMS21] remains
identical and we therefore do not repeat it. The second option (depicted in red
on Fig. 1) is to target the output of the product after its shares have been re-
combined. Evaluating it requires less standard techniques and can be done in
diﬀerent models. Binary fresh re-keying schemes like [MSGR10] require noisy
leakages to be secure. We consider a more conservative model where the adver-
sary obtains noise-free leakages. As a result, the analysis of this attack path
becomes conceptually similar to the analysis of a stream cipher, the product
playing the role of an LFSR and the leakage function the one of a ﬁlter.
Given this threat model, the attack against serial LWPR implementations
is pretty simple. Say we have an instance of LWPR with p = 231 −1 where
the adversary can observe the Hamming weight of every 31-bit word of K ⊡r.
Then, she can ﬁlter the leakages and retain the ones with (worst-case) value 0,
which has a single preimage. Every such event gives a linear equation in the key
elements of the corresponding line of K, and each such line can be recovered
with (n + 1) linear equations. Since p is only mid-size, these events happen with
a concretely reachable probability 1
p. As a result, after the generation p (n + 1)
LWPR samples, the full key is compromised with good probability.
Since it is hard to rule out that (close to) Hamming weight leakages can be
observed in practice (as Sect. 6 will conﬁrm experimentally), this attack suggests
that serial instances of LWPR cannot be secure without additional side-channel
countermeasures. Various candidates can be considered for this purpose. As it
is argued in [DMMS21], exploiting extreme Hamming weights becomes diﬃ-
cult when the level of parallelism increases (since they become exponentially
less likely), and shuﬄing therefore appears as the most natural one. Indeed, if

418
C. Hoﬀmann et al.
well implemented, shuﬄing makes the m intermediate computations of a serial
implementation hard to distinguish so that the adversary does not gain more
information than if she was provided with the sum of these leakages, which emu-
lates a parallel implementation [HOM06,VMKS12,UBS21].3 We show in Sect. 5
that attacks exploiting worst-case leakages can be generalized, and that a secu-
rity argument can be given based on the degree of the (linear) leakage function
and the accuracy of its coeﬃcients. Beforehand, we consider another important
class of (algebraic) attacks where the adversary exploits any-case leakages (i.e.,
where the leakages are not ﬁltered and all the measurements are used). For this
purpose, we generalize the former security analysis of Duval et al. from the spe-
cialized Hamming weight leakage function towards any linear leakage function.
Interestingly, for those attacks we are even able to give a security argument for
serial implementations, which then easily extends to parallel ones.
4
LWPR for Linear Leakage Functions
While reasonable as a ﬁrst step, considering security against Hamming weight
leakages is oversimplifying since the diﬀerent bits of an implementation can con-
sume more or less power, due to diﬀerent load capacitances. This is precisely
what is modeled by regression-based attacks [SLP05]. In this section, we there-
fore analyze the security of LWPR in this generalized context.
For this purpose, we ﬁrst observe that the product K ⊡r is linear over Fp. As
a result, we focus on the (linear invariant) cryptographic criteria of the remaining
function Lg considered as a function over Fp. If the adversary can approximate
well the real function Lg by a p-ary function, she obtains a system of equations
over Fp where the unknowns are (aﬃne combinations of) the key elements.
This gives a modeling of Lg(K ⊡r) as equations over Fp where the only
unknowns are the Fp elements of K. We next carry out such an analysis for a
linear leakage model in the serial case, by considering these models as functions
over Fp, which we deﬁne as s-bounded pseudo-linear functions.
Deﬁnition 5 (s-bounded pseudo-linear functions). We denote as Fa the
function characterized by a ∈Ft
p, where t = ⌈log p⌉and deﬁned as:
Fa : Fp →Fp, y →
t−1

i=0
ai · g(y)i.
(1)
We call Fa s-bounded pseudo-linear if each ai belongs to [0, s], with s ∈Fp a
security parameter, and we call Cs
1 the class of s-bounded pseudo-linear functions.
We recall that the g function associates elements of Fp to their binary repre-
sentation. The name pseudo-linear comes from the fact that this function is
linear in the bits of the binary representation of a. However, it corresponds to a
much higher degree p-ary function. This increase of the degree when projecting
3 Increasing the size of p could provide similar security beneﬁts at higher cost.

Learning with Physical Rounding for Linear [...] Leakage Functions
419
a binary representation into a prime ﬁeld is the root of the LWPR hardness. We
next consider that an s-bounded Fa is the p-ary function used to approximate Lg.
We note that this deﬁnition implicitly relies on two assumptions: one on the
degree of the physical leakage function and another one on the number of values
taken by the coeﬃcients ai. The practical relevance of these two assumptions
is discussed in Sect. 6. We also note that the proposed analysis captures an
important class of (algebraic) attacks against LWPR. We will show that the non-
injectivity of a one-variable p-ary function is suﬃcient to prove a lower bound on
its degree and its nonlinearity. On the one hand, the high algebraic degree of a p-
ary function allows thwarting the attacks based on solving a linearized algebraic
system. On the other hand, the high nonlinearity prevents the attacks based
on solving noisy linear algebraic systems, which use the best approximation of
a p-ary function by an aﬃne function. But as usual in cryptanalysis, nothing
prevents that other characterizations or attack vectors lead to better results.
Deﬁnition 6 (Preimage sets & main preimage). Let f ∈Fp,m, we call:
– Af(y) = {x ∈Fm
p | f(x) = y} for y ∈Fp, the set of preimages of y through f.
– uf ∈Fp a main image of f deﬁned as ∀y ∈Fp, |Af(uf)| ≥|Af(y)|.
– vf ∈[1, pm] the main preimage size of f, deﬁned as vf = |Af(uf)|.
– wf ∈[0, p −1] the no preimage set’s size of f, deﬁned as
wf = |{y ∈Fp | Af(y) = ∅}|
.
We ﬁrst show a bound on the degree of f based on its main preimage size.
Proposition 1 (Main preimage size and algebraic degree). Let f ∈Fp,1,
if its main preimage vf < p then its algebraic degree deg(f) ≥vf.
Proof. Since vf < p, f is not a constant function and f −uf is not the null
function. Accordingly, the function f −uf admits vf diﬀerent zeros in Fp, and
there exists vf terms (x −zi) dividing f. Therefore its degree is at least vf and,
since the algebraic degree is aﬃne invariant, deg(f) = deg(f −uf) ≥vf.
⊓⊔
Furthermore, when f is not enough non-injective, composing the function can
be used to determine better its degree as shown in the following corollary:
Corollary 1. Let f ∈Fp,1 and r ∈N∗, we denote f ◦r = f ◦f ◦· · · ◦f the
composition of f r times. If vf ◦r < p then deg(f) ≥(vf ◦r)1/r.
We next show a bound on the nonlinearity of f.
Proposition 2 (Main preimage size, no preimage set’s size and non-
linearity). Let f ∈Fp,1 such that its main preimage size vf < p, then:
nl(f) ≥min (p −vf, max (vf −1, wf)) .

420
C. Hoﬀmann et al.
Proof. We derive the bound on the nonlinearity by ﬁrst considering the distance
to constant functions, and then to any aﬃne function. Since vf < p, f is not
constant, and it will agree on at most vf values with a constant function c.
Hence dH(f, c) ≥p −vf. Besides, p-ary aﬃne (not constant) functions in one
variable are bijective. Accordingly, each element of Fp is the image of exactly
one element. Therefore, for any aﬃne (not constant) function in Fp,1, there
exists at least vf −1 elements of Fp where the image of f is diﬀerent from the
aﬃne function’s one (all except one of the preimages of uf). Moreover, since wf
elements are not in the image of f, f disagrees at least wf times with any aﬃne
(not constant) function, which give the ﬁnal bound.
⊓⊔
Finally, we bound the main preimage size of s-bounded pseudo-linear functions.
Proposition 3 (Properties of s-bounded pseudo-linear functions). Let
f ∈Cs
1 with ts < p, where t = ⌈log p⌉, then the following holds:
– vf ≥⌈
p
ts+1⌉,
– wf ≥p −ts −1.
And assuming vf ̸= p, we further have:
– deg(f) ≥⌈
p
ts+1⌉,
– nl(f) ≥min

p −vf, max

⌈
p
ts+1⌉−1, p −ts −1

.
Proof. Since ts < p, we obtain that for all x ∈Fp, 0 ≤f(x) ≤ts, hence
wf ≥p −ts −1. Thereafter, f(x) can take at most ts + 1 values, hence there
exists at least a preimage set with cardinal ⌈
p
ts+1⌉or more. The last two items
are obtained using Proposition 1, Proposition 2 and two ﬁrst items.
⊓⊔
Note that the condition ts < p guarantees that no reduction takes place
independent of the input of the pseudo-linear leakage function in Eq. 1.
For a given a ∈Ft
p, the output of Fa gives a system of equations where the
key elements are the unknowns. Therefore, solving the algebraic system given by
images of Fa allows retrieving the key. We next explore two methods for solving
such a system over Fp, and demonstrate that the time and data complexity of
these methods are suﬃciently high for our instances in Sect. 6.5.
Concretely, an adversary can either solve the system of k variables directly
or use the higher-order correlation approach presented in [Cou02]. Higher-order
correlation attacks consist in approximating Fa by a degree-d function h, and
then solving systems of equations until one is such that Fa and h coincide on
all these equations. An adversary can create additional equations if needed,
for instance through a linear combination of the existing ones. Hence, the time
complexity of solving a noisy degree-d system of equations over Fp can be written
as C(1−ε)−D with C the time complexity to solve a degree-d system of equations
in k′ variables over Fp, (1−ε) the probability of the approximation to be correct
for one equation, k′ the number of variables (i.e., at least the number of key
variables k, but it can be more if techniques introducing new variables are used),
and D the quantity of data necessary (at least the number of variables k′).

Learning with Physical Rounding for Linear [...] Leakage Functions
421
Exact algebraic system attack path. Let us for now ﬁx the security param-
eter s to 212 (the practical relevance of this value will be discussed in Sect. 6).
Trying to solve the system directly given by the output of the function Fa with
this value and a modulus p = 231 −1, we ﬁnd vf ≥⌈
231−1
31·212+1⌉≥214 (since
t = ⌈log(p)⌉). Therefore, the adversary would have to solve a system of equa-
tions of degree at least 214 in n + 1 variables over F231−1 to recover the ﬁrst
row of K. There are usually two main families of algorithms considered to solve
polynomial systems of equations: the XL algorithms and Gr¨obner bases algo-
rithms such as F4 [Fau99] or F5 [Fau02]. The complexities of these families of
algorithms are studied in diﬀerent works. We refer to [YC04] for the XL family
and to [BFS15] for F4/F5. For clarity, we ﬁrst discuss the results given by the
simpler approach of linearization. Let Vd denote the number of monomials over
Fp with degree at most d in the k variables of the system. The linearization
attacks consists in considering each of these monomials as a new variable, and
then in inverting the linear system using Gaussian elimination. Thereafter, the
corresponding time complexity to solve a system with this approach is simply
O

V 3
d

. XL algorithms or Gr¨obner bases algorithms should improve over this
complexity. However, Gaussian elimination algorithms give a convenient estimate
of the complexity to solve a linear system, that is suﬃcient for our purposes and
which can be combined with mild security margins if needed. For example, XL
and F4/F5 can be much faster when more polynomials are available, leading
to a time complexity reduced to O (V ω
d ), where 2 ≤ω ≤3 is a linear algebra
constant that depends on the algorithm used. We make the conservative choice
to consider the complexity O

V 2
d

for our concrete security estimations.
Noisy linear system attack path. We also consider the complexity of lin-
earizing the d-degree system, then solving the resulting linear system. For this
purpose, we use a similar argument as the one given in [DMMS21]. Namely,
we ﬁrst observe that the number of variables after linearization is Vd = |{v ∈
[0, p −1]k, 0 ≤k
i=1 vi ≤d}| = d
l=0
l+k−1
l

=
k+d
k

(using the stars and
bars theorem) and again assume C = O (V ω
d ). The noisy linear system approach
then just implies considering a probability of error ε = nl(Fa)/p for the equation
approximation. In this case, with a degree d = 1, we have V1 = k + 1 and the
time complexity is at least O

(k + 1)ω(p/(p −nl(Fa)))k
. Using the bound of
Proposition 3 therefore provides the required security estimation.
These theoretical bounds will be made concrete in Sect. 6.5, where actual
instances of Fa are given, with their associated values vf and wf.
Adaptation to the parallel case. In the serial case above, we studied the
properties of the function an adversary can obtain from the leakage correspond-
ing to one (Fp) element of the ephemeral key, each element of y depending on
a diﬀerent row of the long term key. In the parallel case, the adversary gets less
information since she obtains the leakage on the whole y and not independently
on each coeﬃcient. In this case, the leakage is the sum of the leakages obtained
in the serial case. Therefore, in terms of p-ary functions, calling fi the functions

422
C. Hoﬀmann et al.
considered in the serial case, the one in the parallel case is f ′ ∈Fp,m:
f ′(y) =
m

i=1
fi(yi).
Since f ′ is a direct sum of functions (sum of functions acting on diﬀerent vari-
ables) its properties can be derived from the ones of the fi’s. Namely, deg(fi)
and nl(fi) can be obtained from Proposition 3, deg(f ′) = max
i
deg(fi) and the
nonlinearity of f ′ can be derived from the following result:
Property 1 (Adapted from
[CHMS22], Proposition 1). Let G be a group, Let
h = f + g be the direct sum of the functions f and g with n and m G-variables
respectively. Then, nlG(h) ≥max(|G|nnlG(g), |G|mnlG(f)).
Accordingly, we also obtain nl(f ′) ≥max
i
pm−1nl(fi). The complexity of the
attacks against parallel LWPRG implementations is therefore increased thanks
to this higher nonlinearity and the higher number of variables km.
5
Security Against Worst-Case Leakages
We now extend the approach of [DMMS21] for attacks taking advantage of worst-
case leakages (intuitively outlined in Sect. 3). Precisely, we investigate the com-
plexity of attacks that beneﬁt from the existence of leakages with small preimage
sets. In the parallel case, the adversary obtains images z such that:
z = f ′(y) =
m

i=1
fi(yi) =
m

i=1
fi(ki ⊡r),
where ki denotes the i-th row of K. For z = f ′(y), the m-variable p-ary function
f ′ has |Af ′(z)| preimages that we denote (y(j)
1 , . . . , y(j)
m ), for j ∈[1, |Af ′(z)|].
From an image z, the adversary obtains that a linear system of m equations,
namely {ki ⊡r = y(j)
i , for i ∈[1, m]}, is correct for one j. She can then collect
n + 1 samples z1, . . . , zn+1 and solve the n+1
i=1 |Af ′(zi)| possible linear systems
in m (n + 1) variables (in order to retrieve K). Only one of these systems is the
correct one, and the correct solution can be veriﬁed with more samples. Since by
deﬁnition |Af ′(zi)| ≤vf ′, the time complexity of this attack is upper bounded
by O(vn+1
f ′
· (m(n + 1))ω) (following the analysis of Sect. 4).
We extend this attack by considering algebraic systems of higher degree
rather than linear systems. When z gives |Af ′(z)| preimages, instead of con-
sidering m · |Af ′(z)| linear equations, we can build the m equations:
|Af′(z)|

j=1
(ki ⊡r −y(j)
i ) = 0, for i ∈[1, m],

Learning with Physical Rounding for Linear [...] Leakage Functions
423
where the m equations have degree |Af ′(z)|. We ﬁrst observe that the cases we
previously described, with m·|Af ′(z)| equations of degree 1 and m·1 equations of
degree |Af ′(z)|, are two extreme cases. We can also create m·b equations of degree
c such that bc = |Af ′(z)|, where only one of the b system of equations is correct.
As a result, the attack becomes a tradeoﬀbetween the number of polynomial
systems of ﬁxed degree and their algebraic degree, since it corresponds to the
resolution of bn+1 polynomial systems of degree c, with bc = |Af ′(z)|.
The complexity of the attack relies on two main factors: ﬁrst, the size of the
preimage sets considered |Af ′(z)|, intervening in the number of systems and the
degree of the polynomial systems; second, the probability to get samples zi with
small preimage sets. We argue that this attack is not a threat since either the
time complexity is higher than the security level targeted when Af ′(z) is large,
or the data complexity is too high when Af ′(z) is small. To do so, we ﬁrst give
the expression of |Af ′(z)| when f ′ is the direct sum of m p-ary functions. Then,
we show how the complexity of the attack can be bounded from the values of
|Af ′(zi)| from the samples zi an adversary obtains. Finally, we give a proposition
to bound the probability of getting zi such that the preimage set is small, and
we conclude by applying these results to a practical example.
Concretely, when f ′ is the direct sum of m p-ary functions fi, the expression
of |Af ′(z)| is given by:
|Af ′(z)| =

y1,...,ym∈Fp
y1+···+ym=z
m

i=1
|Afi(yi)|.
Then, since the time complexity of the attack comes from the resolution of bn+1
polynomial systems of degree c such that bc = |Af ′(z)|, using the analysis of
Sect. 4 the complexity is O(bn+1 · (mVc)ω). We rewrite bn+1 · (mVc)ω to express
it relatively to |Af ′(z)| as follows:
bn+1 · (mVc)ω =
|Af ′(z)|
c
n+1 n + 1 + c
n + 1
ω
mω,
≥
|Af ′(z)|
c
n+1
cn+1
(n + 1)!
n + 1 + c
n + 1
ω−1
mω,
≥|Af ′(z)|n+1
(n + 1)!
·
Finally, we use the following proposition in order to bound the probability of
getting images coming from small preimage sets:
Proposition 4 (Probability of getting images from small preimage
sets). Let f ′ ∈Fp,m and B ∈N such that B < pm/| Im(f ′)| where Im(·)
denotes the image, the probability pf ′,B of choosing at random z ∈Fm
p
such
that |Af ′(z)| ≤B follows:
pf ′,B ≤(| Im(f ′)| −1)B
pm
·

424
C. Hoﬀmann et al.
In particular, if f ′ is the direct sum of m p-ary functions with Cs
1 and mts < p
(where t = ⌈log p⌉), the probability becomes:
pf ′,B ≤mstB
pm ·
Proof. First, we show the result in the general case. By deﬁnition, the preimage
sets Af ′(z) for z ∈Fp are a partition of Fm
p , Therefore:
pm =

z∈Fp
|Af ′(z)| =

z∈Im(f ′)
|Af ′(z)|.
Since B <
pm
| Im(f ′)|, at least one of the images is such that |Af ′(z)| > B. Hence,
at most | Im(f ′)| −1 images are such that |Af ′(z)| ≤B, and the corresponding
number of corresponding preimages is therefore at most (| Im(f ′)| −1)B, which
allows us to conclude on pf ′,B. For the particular case where f ′ is a direct sum
of m p-ary functions from Cs
1, since mst < p we have that f(y) ∈[0, st] since
f ∈Cs
1 and f ′(y) ∈[0, mst], hence | Im(f ′)| ≤mst + 1.
⊓⊔
Using the same parameters as in Sect. 5, namely p = 231 −1, s = 212,
n = 4 and m = 4, we obtain that preimage sizes |Af ′(z)| larger than
5√
5!2124 ≈
226 lead to a time complexity larger than 2124. We can then take the value
B = 226 and apply Proposition 4, leading to a probability to get a sample z
with at most B preimages lower than 4·212·31·226
(231−1)4)
≈2−79. Hence, our analysis
shows that attacks exploiting worst-case leakages cannot succeed for adversaries
with a data complexity bounded by 279, whereas side-channel security generally
requires preventing attacks with data complexity in the 250 range. As a result,
we conclude that such attacks are not a concrete threat to the proposed instance.
6
Empirical Validation
The previous sections showed that the LWPR assumption can remain secure in
the generalized context of linear leakage functions. Yet, as illustrated in Fig. 2, it
is based on an adversarial strategy that interprets the leakages in Fp and security
against adversaries following this strategy relies on two assumptions. Namely, it
requires a bound on the degree of the leakage function and another bound on
the quantization of the coeﬃcients of this leakage function.
In the following, we therefore evaluate the validity of our assumptions based
on a prototype hardware implementation (in Sect. 6.2 and Sect. 6.4) and discuss
the applicability and relevance of our attack strategy (in Sect. 6.3). We conclude
in Sect. 6.5, by conﬁrming that the concrete leakage models we estimated from
real measurements are covered by our security analysis. Beforehand, we describe
the prototype implementation we considered in Sect. 6.1

Learning with Physical Rounding for Linear [...] Leakage Functions
425
Fig. 2. Adversarial strategy & leakage assumptions.
6.1
Prototype Hardware Implementation
We measured a parallel hardware implementation operating on 31-bit words
running on a FPGA. The architecture of the computational core of our masked
LWPR-based re-keying scheme is depicted in Fig. 3. Concretely, the complete
computation is performed by processing each share sequentially and the matrix
multiplication for the share index d is split in (N + 1) × M = (4 + 1) × 4 = 20
modular multiplications over Fp. More precisely, the core implements 4 mod-
ular multiplications in parallel (i.e., the results of the multiplications between
the j-th column of a key share denoted Kd
∗,0≤j<5 and the j-th element of the
nonce denoted rj, where r4 = 1). We used the eﬃcient modular multiplication
architecture based on DSPs proposed in [KSHS17] for this purpose. The results
obtained for the multiplications are then added in 4 accumulators (i.e., one for
each row) dedicated to the reconstruction of the resulting fresh key.
Fig. 3. Masked LWPR-based re-keying: prototype hardware implementation.

426
C. Hoﬀmann et al.
As shown in Fig. 4, the architecture of the key memory is designed to limit
the impact of physical defaults on the implementation’s security. In particular,
the key shares are stored in independent physical memory units (i.e., BRAMs in
the context of our FPGA implementation) and a register barrier is used before
selecting the appropriate memory output. The latter is needed to avoid shares’
recombinations that may be caused by glitches. Finally, a dedicated multiplexer
at the input of the register barrier is used to drive the shares’ values that are not
currently processed to zero. Together with the fact that the shares are processed
sequentially, this mechanism ensures the independence of the key shares.
Fig. 4. Key material memory architecture.
Overall, our prototype implementation matches the parallelism requirements
of our security analysis since it recombines a full (124-bit) fresh key in a single
clock cycle, the leakage of which we analyze in the rest of this section. Besides,
we note that when analyzing the second (red) attack path described in the threat
model of Fig. 1, we are only interested in the value of the recombined fresh key.4
Concretely, we therefore choose to measure an implementation with a single
share (i.e., q = 1). This gives the most favorable leakages to the evaluator and
therefore puts us as close as possible to the noise-free setting considered in our
analyzes. This is because the implementation with q = 1 is the smallest one and
a limited use of resources in turn reduces the noise in the leakages.
Our measurements were performed on the Sakura-G evaluation board, which
embeds a XC6SLX75-2CSG484C Spartan6 FPGA. The traces were collected
using a Picoscope 5244D with a Tektronix CT-1 current probe, following the
4 The ﬁrst attack path (leveraging the leakages of the shared multiplications) was
analyzed in [DMMS21] and the arguments of this previous work apply similarly.

Learning with Physical Rounding for Linear [...] Leakage Functions
427
guidelines given in [BUS21]. In order to take into account the eﬀect of conges-
tion that can take place during the place-and-route step of a dense design, we
performed three diﬀerent syntheses using the ISE14.7 design toolchain. The ﬁrst
one is unconstrained. The second one is constrained in order to achieve 95%
of resources’ utilization density (using a PBLOCK area constraint). The last
one further constraints the design by (artiﬁcially) enforcing that higher-capacity
routing elements are included in the path of some bits. We next refer to these
diﬀerent syntheses as unconstrained, constrained and ampliﬁed. The layout of
the unconstrained and constrained syntheses are illustrated in Fig. 5.
6.2
Bounded Degree of the Leakage Function
The ﬁrst (and main) physical assumption used to rule out algebraic attacks in
our previous analysis is that the leakage function has a bounded degree. More
precisely, we claim security for linear leakage functions in Sects. 4 and 5 and will
generalize to higher-order (e.g., quadratic) functions in Sect. 7.
We next study whether this assumption can be reasonably fulﬁlled in prac-
tice. As detailed in Sect. 2.2, regression-based models are a natural tool for this
purpose, since they can be estimated for diﬀerent, more or less complex, basis
functions. A simple case, considered in the previous sections, is to take the bits
of the target intermediate value as basis functions. But higher-degree models
can be built, culminating with the exhaustive model which corresponds to a
(worst-case) proﬁling where all the mean leakage values are exhaustively esti-
mated [CRR02]. Our goal is to therefore show that a simple linear model does
not lead to signiﬁcant information losses compared to the exhaustive one.
For this purpose, we analyzed the 4 leakage functions fi of our target imple-
mentation. We analyzed them independently to reduce the noise. They all gave
similar results. For the exhaustive model, and since building 231 templates is
computationally intensive, we rather estimated a subset of na average leak-
age traces (with na = 10, 000), and stored them in a vector of average leak-
age traces l = [l1, l2, . . . , lna]. We then computed the vectors corresponding to
our regression-based linear models for the three diﬀerent syntheses, evaluated
on the same values. In each case, we ﬁrst estimated the 31-element vector of
coeﬃcients ˆa using np = 10, 000 proﬁling traces (meaning ≈10,000
31
traces per
coeﬃcient, which was suﬃcient for good estimation given the low noise level of
our measurements). As a result, we obtained model predictions:
mu
r1 = [Mu
r1(v1), Mu
r1(v2), . . . , Mu
r1(vna)],
for the unconstrained synthesis, and similarly mc
r1 & ma
r1 for the constrained and
ampliﬁed syntheses. Viewing these vectors as the samples of random variables
L, M u
r1, M c
r1 and M a
r1, we ﬁnally computed the correlation between the true
(averaged) leakages and the models: ˆρ(M u
r1, L), ˆρ(M c
r1, L) and ˆρ(M a
r1, L).
These correlation coeﬃcients are reported in Fig. 6 in function of the number
of traces used to obtain the average traces li. We additionally report the esti-
mates obtained when correlating the real leakage vectors with a Hamming weight

428
C. Hoﬀmann et al.
Fig. 5. Layout of unconstrained (left) and constrained (right) syntheses. Unused
resources are in white. Used resources are in blue. Routing is in red. (Color ﬁgure
online)
leakage model, and each curve in the ﬁgure is accompanied by a 95% bootstrap
conﬁdence interval. These results conﬁrm that unconstrained syntheses (at the
top of the ﬁgure) lead to high correlations already with the Hamming weight
leakage model. By contrast, for constrained and ampliﬁed syntheses reﬂecting
congestioned designs (at the middle and bottom of the ﬁgure) the correlation
with the Hamming weight leakage model decreases while it remains close to one
for the linear models. These experiments show that the generalization we pro-
pose indeed captures practically-relevant implementations. Admittedly, reaching

Learning with Physical Rounding for Linear [...] Leakage Functions
429
such high correlation values does not preclude that higher-degree terms can be
characterized and exploited. But it shows that most of the information leaked
by our target implementation can be extracted with a simple linear model. So
combined with (i) the generalization of Sect. 7 showing that security does not
collapse as long as the leakage function remains suﬃciently non-injective, and (ii)
the fact that our modeling is conservative (since it assumes noise-free leakages),
we conjecture that the bounded-degree assumption we require can be matched
suﬃciently well to provide practically secure LWPR instances.
6.3
Practical Application of the Attack
The attacks we study in this paper work by interpreting physical leakages as
functions in Fp. So far, we showed that such attacks are hard if the leakage
function has a bounded degree and its coeﬃcients have limited accuracy. We
also assessed empirically that the bounded degree assumption can be reasonably
matched in practice. We now describe how to mount these attacks thanks to
Fig. 6. Correlation between real traces with diﬀerent levels of averaging (on the X axis)
and Hamming weight vs. regression-based linear models.

430
C. Hoﬀmann et al.
Fig. 7. Discretization of the linear regression models (unconstrained synth.).
standard side-channel analysis tools, which will incidentally lead us to provide
good indications that limiting the coeﬃcient’s accuracy is also reasonable.
Precisely, and as illustrated in Fig. 2, we show how to move from measured
leakages to s-bounded leakages thanks to the linear regression-based model of
Sect. 2.2. For this purpose, we re-use the 31-element vectors of coeﬃcients ˆa
estimated using np = 10, 000 proﬁling traces, for each of our three syntheses.
We next observe that the value of Pearson’s correlation is not aﬀected if one of
its variables is multiplied by a constant value. As a result, the following simple
discretization process for the coeﬃcients ˆa can be used:
ˆad =

ˆa ·
s
max(ˆa)

.
We ﬁnally illustrate the coeﬃcients of the linear models estimated from the
unconstrained synthesis measurements together with the coeﬃcients of the cor-
responding s-bounded functions in Fig. 7. We can observe that already for s = 28
the matching between both is quite accurate. We further estimated the correla-
tion ˆρ(M s
r1, Mr1) which was worth 1−φ with φ < 10−6 for s = 28.5 We conclude
that a quantization corresponding to s = 212 oﬀers a suﬃcient granularity to
discretize our linear leakage models nearly perfectly. In other words, while we
cannot rule out that other strategies than interpreting the leakages in Fp as we
consider can lead to better results, this section shows that if this is the best
strategy, then the move from measured leakages to s-bounded ones does not
imply a signiﬁcant information loss for the values of s (e.g., 212) that our theo-
retical investigations tolerate. The results for the quantization of the models for
moderately constrained and ampliﬁed syntheses are similar. We illustrate their
respective coeﬃcients in Figs. 8 and 9 for completeness.
6.4
Bounded Measurement Accuracy
The previous sections suggested that using linear regression-based models is
suﬃcient to accurately capture concretely-relevant leakage functions and that
5 With a relative error of below 1%, which is easy to reach since the estimation is
performed from modeled samples (rather than measured ones in Sect. 6.2).

Learning with Physical Rounding for Linear [...] Leakage Functions
431
Fig. 8. Discretization of the linear regression models (constrained synthesis).
Fig. 9. Discretization of the linear regression models (ampliﬁed synthesis).
increasing the coeﬃcient accuracy of the s-bounded pseudo-linear functions
beyond 212 does not lead to signiﬁcant improvements of their informativeness in
our case study. Quite naturally, such assessments remain limited by their heuris-
tic nature. For the analysis of the degree, this is unavoidable (since absence
of evidence is not evidence of absence) and the only option to make it more
robust is to consider higher-degree functions that could theoretically show up,
which we will do in Sect. 7. But for the bounded coeﬃcient accuracy, there is
a complementary argument that could be given. For this purpose, the starting
observation is that physical leakages are measured by converting an analog signal
into a digital one. Concretely, the “vertical resolution” s′ of modern oscilloscopes
typically ranges from 8 to 12 bits, meaning that the measured leakage can take
between 28 and 212 values (possibly a bit more thanks to oversampling, at the
cost of a reduced “horizontal” resolution). So if the increase of the s parameter
from Deﬁnition 5 leads to a pseudo-linear function having a codomain with more
than s′ elements, it implies that the s-bounded leakage function is more infor-
mative than the measured one, which contradicts the data processing inequality.
So for such leakage functions, the bounded coeﬃcient accuracy can be directly
connected to an assumption on the adversary’s measurement apparatus.
However, increasing the s parameter does not always increase the cardinality
of the leakage functions (e.g., think about the case where t = 1 for an increas-
ing s). So one cannot directly bound the coeﬃcient accuracy s based on the

432
C. Hoﬀmann et al.
resolution of the oscilloscope s′. Yet, we note that most of the security claims
in Sects. 4 (resp., 5) depend on the product ts (resp., mts) which bounds the
cardinality of the functions’ co-domain and where t corresponds to the
t
1

basis
functions of a linear leakage model. So if the security analysis could be improved
in order to rely only on this cardinality of the leakage functions, independent of
the value of s (i.e., getting rid of the ts < p and mts < p conditions), we could
replace the assumption on the bounded coeﬃcient accuracy by an assumption
on the resolution of the oscilloscope used to mount the attack. We leave the
investigation of such an improved analysis as an interesting open problem.
6.5
Concrete Security Level
The three aforementioned implementations gave us three sets of real parameters,
namely ˆau, ˆac and ˆaa. Each of them can be discretized using the method of
Sect. 6.3, resulting in three sets of Fp coeﬃcients au
d, ac
d and aa
d, themselves
associated to an s-bounded pseudo-linear function Fau
d , Fac
d and Faa
d .
Table 1. deg(Fa ∗
d ) and nl(Fa ∗
d ) bounds of s-bounded pseudo-linear functions for the
diﬀerent implementations (computed using Proposition 3).
vFa ∗
d
wFa ∗
d
deg(Fa ∗
d )
nl(Fa ∗
d )
Unconstrained 101748 1073657388 ≥101748 ≥2147381899
Constrained
213852 1073692455 ≥213852 ≥2147269795
Ampliﬁed
160593 1073709374 ≥160593 ≥2147323054
The results of Table 1 show the very high values of the degree and nonlinear-
ity reached by these s-bounded pseudo-linear functions. As a result, algebraic
attacks appear to be impracticable against the corresponding LWPR instances.
The time complexities being several order of magnitude larger than the 124
bits of security we target, even more advanced approach (e.g., solving algebraic
systems with Gr¨obner bases, using code-based techniques to approximate by
smaller-degree functions) should not lead to successful attacks.
7
Further Generalizations
The previous section conﬁrmed the security that can be oﬀered by concrete
LWPR instances. It also showed that linear models are good abstractions to
capture the features of actual leakage measurements. In this section, we show
that the positive results obtained for s-bounded pseudo-linear functions extend
naturally to higher-order leakage models, taking the quadratic case as an exam-
ple. Despite not directly motivated by practice (as linear leakage models oﬀered
high level of correlation with real leakages in the previous section), we deem
this result important to conﬁrm that even in the hypothetical presence of such
higher-order dependencies, the security of LWPR would not collapse.

Learning with Physical Rounding for Linear [...] Leakage Functions
433
Deﬁnition 7 (s-bounded pseudo-quadratic functions). We denote Qa,b
the function deﬁned by a vector a ∈Ft
p and a strictly upper triangular matrix
b ∈Ft×t
p
, where t = ⌈log p⌉, as:
Qa,b :Fp →Fp
y →
t−1

i=0
aig(y)i +

0≤i<j<t
bi(t+1)+jg(y)ig(y)j.
We call Qa,b s-bounded pseudo-quadratic when each ai, bi,j belongs to [0, s], with
security parameter s ∈Fp Cs
2 the class of s-bounded pseudo-quadratic functions.
We give the following result for attacks exploiting any-case leakages.
Proposition 5 (Properties of s-bounded pseudo-quadratic functions).
Let f ∈Cs
2 with t(t+1)
2
s < p and t = ⌈log p⌉, then the following holds:
– vf ≥

p
st(t+1)/2+1

,
– wf ≥p −st(t + 1)/2 −1.
And assuming vf ̸= p, we further have:
– deg(f) ≥

p
st(t+1)/2+1

,
– nl(f) ≥min

p −vf, max

p
st(t+1)/2+1

−1, p −st(t + 1)/2 −1

.
Proof. Since t(t+1)
2
s < p, we obtain that for all x ∈Fp, 0 ≤f(x) ≤t(t+1)
2
s,
hence wf ≥p −t(t+1)
2
s −1. Thereafter, f(x) can take at most t(t+1)
2
s + 1 values,
hence there exists at least a preimage set with cardinal

p
st(t+1)/2+1

or more.
Finally, the last items are obtained by using Proposition 1 and Proposition 2
respectively, combined with the two ﬁrst items.
⊓⊔
Note that the condition ts < p which avoids the reduction when computing the
leakage function in the analysis of the linear case is replaced by a condition
t(t+1)
2
s < p, where t(t+1)
2
=
t
1

+
t
2

is the number of basis functions in the
quadratic model. This last result shows that s-bounded pseudo-quadratic func-
tions behave similarly to s-bounded pseudo-linear functions. The only diﬀerence
is that the security parameter s is a bit more constrained, so that t(t+1)
2
s < p.
Yet, with p = 231 −1 and t = ⌈log p⌉, security remains guaranteed for s = 212
(with a large security margin). In a similar manner, it could be shown that
the estimated cost of algebraic attacks against LWPR is maintained for larger
degrees, if the leakage function it relies on remains suﬃciently non-injective, with
a constraint on s evolving with the number of basis functions in the model.
As for attacks using worst-case leakages as studied in Sect. 5, the condi-
tion is slightly more restricted since we need m t(t+1)
2
s < p in order to apply
Proposition 4. It nevertheless remains suﬃcient in the quadratic case. Besides,
it could again be that an improved analysis leads to relaxed conditions (or tighter
bounds), which we leave as an interesting scope for further research.

434
C. Hoﬀmann et al.
8
Conclusions and Open Problems
By showing that the LWPR assumption remains secure for a wide class of
practically-relevant leakage functions, this work makes an important step in
improving its usability. As a result, it strengthens the motivation for using re-
keying schemes operating in prime ﬁelds, since they provide signiﬁcant secu-
rity improvements over their binary counterparts. Concretely, our investigations
suggest that parallel instances of LWPR have good potential to be secure. The
generalization of Sect. 7 further shows that increasing the degree of the leakage
function is not a direct threat, so that the main assumption for LWPR to be hard
is the quite natural requirement that the leakages are suﬃciently non-injective.
Our results open several interesting avenues for further research. First, Sect. 3
recalled the challenge of securing serial LWPR implementations against leakage
and suggested shuﬄing as a possible option for this purpose. Its concrete inves-
tigation is therefore a natural next step. Second, our analyzes could be improved
in order to rely only on the degree of the leakage functions and the cardinality
of their co-domain. As discussed in Sect. 6.4, this could lead to formally connect
the bouned coeﬃcient accuracy hypothesis with the resolution of the adversary’s
measurement apparatus. Third, we for now consider univariate leakages. They
reasonably match the hardware implementation context we evaluated, where it
is possible to implement the un-masking of the ephemeral key in a single cycle.
But multivariate generalizations are an important scope for further investiga-
tions and will be especially relevant in a software implementation context where
(for example) the reduction that has to take place after the un-masking may
take several cycles. Dealing with more leaky software implementations (even
with shuﬄing) may also motivate stepping back to a less conservative model,
where security is argued based on the diﬃculty for the adversary to infer leakage
values without errors, possibly formalized by a Learning With Physical Round-
ing and Errors problem. LWPR being an aggressive and new physical assump-
tion, improving the understanding of the best cryptanalysis techniques to break
it naturally remains needed as well. For example, our current attacks do not
exploit key guessing strategies (which should at least imply a slight increase of
the security parameters). Eventually, it would be worth studying the conditions
upon which hard physical learning problems can be connected and reduced to
standard (mathematical) hard learning problems.
Acknowledgments. Pierrick M´eaux was supported by the ERC project 787390
(acronym CLOUDMAP). Fran¸cois-Xavier Standaert is a senior research associate of
the Belgian Fund for Scientiﬁc Research (FNRS-F.R.S.). This work has been funded
in parts by the European Union through the ERC project 724725 (acronym SWORD)
and by the Walloon Region Win2Wal project PIRATE.

Learning with Physical Rounding for Linear [...] Leakage Functions
435
References
BCF+15. Bela¨ıd, S., Coron, J.-S., Fouque, P.-A., G´erard, B., Kammerer, J.-G.,
Prouﬀ, E.: Improved side-channel analysis of ﬁnite-ﬁeld multiplication.
In: G¨uneysu, T., Handschuh, H. (eds.) CHES 2015. LNCS, vol. 9293, pp.
395–415. Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-
48324-4 20
BCO04. Brier, E., Clavier, C., Olivier, F.: Correlation power analysis with a leakage
model. In: Joye, M., Quisquater, J.-J. (eds.) CHES 2004. LNCS, vol. 3156,
pp. 16–29. Springer, Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-
28632-5 2
BDF+17. Barthe, G., Dupressoir, F., Faust, S., Gr´egoire, B., Standaert, F.-X., Strub,
P.-Y.: Parallel implementations of masking schemes and the bounded
moment leakage model. In: Coron, J.-S., Nielsen, J.B. (eds.) EUROCRYPT
2017. LNCS, vol. 10210, pp. 535–566. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-319-56620-7 19
BDK+18. Bos, J.W., et al.: CRYSTALS - Kyber: a CCA-secure module-lattice-based
KEM. In: EuroS&P, pp. 353–367. IEEE (2018)
BFG14. Bela¨ıd, S., Fouque, P.-A., G´erard, B.: Side-channel analysis of multipli-
cations in GF(2128). In: Sarkar, P., Iwata, T. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2014.
LNCS, vol. 8874, pp. 306–325. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-662-45608-8 17
BFS15. Bardet, M., Faug`ere, J.-C., Salvy, B.: On the complexity of the F5 gr¨obner
basis algorithm. J. Symb. Comput. 70, 49–70 (2015)
BGL+14. Brenner, H., Gaspar, L., Leurent, G., Rosen, A., Standaert, F.-X.: FPGA
implementations of SPRING. In: Batina, L., Robshaw, M. (eds.) CHES
2014. LNCS, vol. 8731, pp. 414–432. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-44709-3 23
BIP+18. Boneh, D., Ishai, Y., Passel`egue, A., Sahai, A., Wu, D.J.: Exploring crypto
dark matter: new simple PRF candidates and their applications. In: Beimel,
A., Dziembowski, S. (eds.) TCC 2018. LNCS, vol. 11240, pp. 699–729.
Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-03810-6 25
BPR12. Banerjee, A., Peikert, C., Rosen, A.: Pseudorandom functions and lattices.
In: Pointcheval, D., Johansson, T. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2012. LNCS, vol.
7237, pp. 719–737. Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-642-29011-4 42
BUS21. Bellizia, D., Udvarhelyi, B., Standaert, F.-X.: Towards a better under-
standing of side-channel analysis measurements setups. In: Grosso, V.,
P¨oppelmann, T. (eds.) CARDIS. LNCS, vol. 13173, pp. 64–79. Springer,
Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-97348-3 4
BV11. Brakerski, Z., Vaikuntanathan, V.: Fully homomorphic encryption from
ring-LWE and security for key dependent messages. In: Rogaway, P. (ed.)
CRYPTO 2011. LNCS, vol. 6841, pp. 505–524. Springer, Heidelberg (2011).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-22792-9 29
Car21. Carlet, C.: Boolean Functions for Cryptography and Coding Theory. Cam-
bridge University Press (2021)
CGP+12. Coron, J.-S., Giraud, C., Prouﬀ, E., Renner, S., Rivain, M., Vadnala, P.K.:
Conversion of security proofs from one leakage model to another: a new
issue. In: Schindler, W., Huss, S.A. (eds.) COSADE 2012. LNCS, vol. 7275,
pp. 69–81. Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-
29912-4 6

436
C. Hoﬀmann et al.
CHKP10. Cash, D., Hofheinz, D., Kiltz, E., Peikert, C.: Bonsai trees, or how to del-
egate a lattice basis. In: Gilbert, H. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2010. LNCS, vol.
6110, pp. 523–552. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-642-13190-5 27
CHMS22. Cosseron, O., Hoﬀmann, C., M´eaux, P., Standaert, F.-X.: Towards case-
optimized hybrid homomorphic encryption - featuring the Elisabeth stream
cipher. In: Agrawal, S., Lin, D. (eds.) ASIACRYPT (3). LNCS, vol.
13793, pp. 32–67. Springer, Cham (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
031-22969-5 2
Cou02. Courtois, N.T.: Higher order correlation attacks, XL algorithm and crypt-
analysis of Toyocrypt. In: Lee, P.J., Lim, C.H. (eds.) Information Security
and Cryptology - ICISC 2002, 5th International Conference Seoul, Korea,
28–29 November 2002, Revised Papers. LNCS, vol. 2587, pp. 182–199.
Springer, Heidelberg (2002). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-36552-4 13
CRR02. Chari, S., Rao, J.R., Rohatgi, P.: Template attacks. In: Kaliski, B.S., Ko¸c,
K., Paar, C. (eds.) CHES 2002. LNCS, vol. 2523, pp. 13–28. Springer, Hei-
delberg (2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-36400-5 3
CS20. Cassiers, G., Standaert, F.-X.: Trivially and eﬃciently composing masked
gadgets with probe isolating non-interference. IEEE Trans. Inf. Forensics
Secur. 15, 2542–2555 (2020)
CS21. Cassiers, G., Standaert, F.-X.: Provably secure hardware masking in the
transition- and glitch-robust probing model: better safe than sorry. IACR
Trans. Cryptogr. Hardw. Embed. Syst. 2021(2), 136–158 (2021)
DFH+16. Dziembowski, S., Faust, S., Herold, G., Journault, A., Masny, D., Standaert,
F.-X.: Towards sound fresh re-keying with hard (physical) learning prob-
lems. In: Robshaw, M., Katz, J. (eds.) CRYPTO 2016. LNCS, vol. 9815,
pp. 272–301. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
662-53008-5 10
DGH+21. Dinur, I., et al.: MPC-friendly symmetric cryptography from alternating
moduli: candidates, protocols, and applications. In: Malkin, T., Peikert,
C. (eds.) CRYPTO 2021. LNCS, vol. 12828, pp. 517–547. Springer, Cham
(2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84259-8 18
DKL+18. Ducas, L., et al.: Crystals-Dilithium: a lattice-based digital signature
scheme. IACR Trans. Cryptogr. Hardw. Embed. Syst. 2018(1), 238–268
(2018)
DMMS21. Duval, S., M´eaux, P., Momin, C., Standaert, F.-X.: Exploring crypto-
physical dark matter and learning with physical rounding towards secure
and eﬃcient fresh re-keying. IACR Trans. Cryptogr. Hardw. Embed. Syst.
2021(1), 373–401 (2021)
Fau99. Faug`ere, J.-C.: A new eﬃcient algorithm for computing Groebner bases. J.
Pure Appl. Algebra, 61–88 (1999)
Fau02. Faug`ere, J.C.: A new eﬃcient algorithm for computing Gr¨obner bases with-
out reduction to zero (F5). In: Proceedings of the 2002 International Sym-
posium on Symbolic and Algebraic Computation, ISSAC 2002, pp. 75–83
(2002)
Gen09. Gentry, C.: Fully homomorphic encryption using ideal lattices. In: STOC,
pp. 169–178. ACM (2009)
GJ19. Guo, Q., Johansson, T.: A new birthday-type algorithm for attacking the
fresh re-keying countermeasure. Inf. Process. Lett. 146, 30–34 (2019)

Learning with Physical Rounding for Linear [...] Leakage Functions
437
GLP06. Gierlichs, B., Lemke-Rust, K., Paar, C.: Templates vs. stochastic methods.
In: Goubin, L., Matsui, M. (eds.) CHES 2006. LNCS, vol. 4249, pp. 15–29.
Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/10.1007/11894063 2
GLS14. Gaspar, L., Leurent, G., Standaert, F.-X.: Hardware implementation and
side-channel analysis of lapin. In: Benaloh, J. (ed.) CT-RSA 2014. LNCS,
vol. 8366, pp. 206–226. Springer, Cham (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-319-04852-9 11
GPV08. Gentry, C., Peikert, C., Vaikuntanathan, V.: Trapdoors for hard lattices
and new cryptographic constructions. In: STOC, pp. 197–206. ACM (2008)
GR17. Goudarzi, D., Rivain, M.: How fast can higher-order masking be in software?
In: Coron, J.-S., Nielsen, J.B. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2017. LNCS, vol. 10210,
pp. 567–597. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
56620-7 20
HB01. Hopper, N.J., Blum, M.: Secure human identiﬁcation protocols. In: Boyd, C.
(ed.) ASIACRYPT 2001. LNCS, vol. 2248, pp. 52–66. Springer, Heidelberg
(2001). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-45682-1 4
HKL+12. Heyse, S., Kiltz, E., Lyubashevsky, V., Paar, C., Pietrzak, K.: Lapin: an
eﬃcient authentication protocol based on ring-LPN. In: Canteaut, A. (ed.)
FSE 2012. LNCS, vol. 7549, pp. 346–365. Springer, Heidelberg (2012).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-34047-5 20
HLM+23. Hoﬀmann, C., Libert, B., Momin, C., Peters, T., Standaert, F.-X.: POLKA:
towards leakage-resistant post-quantum CCA-secure public key encryption.
In: Boldyreva, A., Kolesnikov, V. (eds.) Public Key Cryptography (1).
LNCS, vol. 13940, pp. 114–144. Springer, Cham (2023). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-031-31368-4 5
HOM06. Herbst, C., Oswald, E., Mangard, S.: An AES smart card implementation
resistant to power analysis attacks. In: Zhou, J., Yung, M., Bao, F. (eds.)
ACNS 2006. LNCS, vol. 3989, pp. 239–252. Springer, Heidelberg (2006).
https://doi.org/10.1007/11767480 16
Hou18. Hou, X.-D.: Lectures on Finite Fields, vol. 190. American Mathematical
Society (2018)
ISW03. Ishai, Y., Sahai, A., Wagner, D.: Private circuits: securing hardware against
probing attacks. In: Boneh, D. (ed.) CRYPTO 2003. LNCS, vol. 2729, pp.
463–481. Springer, Heidelberg (2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-
45146-4 27
KSHS17. Koppermann, P., De Santis, F., Heyszl, J., Sigl, G.: Automatic generation
of high-performance modular multipliers for arbitrary Mersenne primes on
FPGAs. In: HOST, pp. 35–40. IEEE Computer Society (2017)
Man04. Mangard, S.: Hardware countermeasures against DPA – a statistical anal-
ysis of their eﬀectiveness. In: Okamoto, T. (ed.) CT-RSA 2004. LNCS, vol.
2964, pp. 222–235. Springer, Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-540-24660-2 18
MOP07. Mangard, S., Oswald, E., Popp, T.: Power Analysis Attacks - Revealing
the Secrets of Smart Cards. Springer, New York (2007). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-0-387-38162-6
MPG05. Mangard, S., Popp, T., Gammel, B.M.: Side-channel leakage of masked
CMOS gates. In: Menezes, A. (ed.) CT-RSA 2005. LNCS, vol. 3376, pp.
351–365. Springer, Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-
30574-3 24

438
C. Hoﬀmann et al.
MSGR10. Medwed, M., Standaert, F.-X., Großsch¨adl, J., Regazzoni, F.: Fresh re-
keying: security against side-channel and fault attacks for low-cost devices.
In: Bernstein, D.J., Lange, T. (eds.) AFRICACRYPT 2010. LNCS, vol.
6055, pp. 279–296. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-642-12678-9 17
NDGJ21. Ngo, K., Dubrova, E., Guo, Q., Johansson, T.: A side-channel attack on a
masked IND-CCA secure saber KEM implementation. IACR Trans. Cryp-
togr. Hardw. Embed. Syst. 2021(4), 676–707 (2021)
Pie12. Pietrzak, K.: Cryptography from learning parity with noise. In: Bielikov´a,
M., Friedrich, G., Gottlob, G., Katzenbeisser, S., Tur´an, G. (eds.) SOFSEM
2012. LNCS, vol. 7147, pp. 99–114. Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-27660-6 9
PM16. Pessl, P., Mangard, S.: Enhancing side-channel analysis of binary-ﬁeld mul-
tiplication with bit reliability. In: Sako, K. (ed.) CT-RSA 2016. LNCS, vol.
9610, pp. 255–270. Springer, Cham (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
319-29485-8 15
Reg05. Regev, O.: On lattices, learning with errors, random linear codes, and cryp-
tography. In: STOC, pp. 84–93. ACM (2005)
Reg10. Regev, O.: The learning with errors problem (invited survey). In: Com-
putational Complexity Conference, pp. 191–204. IEEE Computer Society
(2010)
RRCB20. Ravi, P., Roy, S.S., Chattopadhyay, A., Bhasin, S.: Generic side-channel
attacks on CCA-secure lattice-based PKE and KEMs. IACR Trans. Cryp-
togr. Hardw. Embed. Syst. 2020(3), 307–335 (2020)
SLP05. Schindler, W., Lemke, K., Paar, C.: A stochastic model for diﬀerential side
channel cryptanalysis. In: Rao, J.R., Sunar, B. (eds.) CHES 2005. LNCS,
vol. 3659, pp. 30–46. Springer, Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/
11545262 3
SMY09. Standaert, F.-X., Malkin, T.G., Yung, M.: A uniﬁed framework for the anal-
ysis of side-channel key recovery attacks. In: Joux, A. (ed.) EUROCRYPT
2009. LNCS, vol. 5479, pp. 443–461. Springer, Heidelberg (2009). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-01001-9 26
SPRQ06. Standaert, F.-X., Peeters, E., Rouvroy, G., Quisquater, J.-J.: An overview
of power analysis attacks against ﬁeld programmable gate arrays. Proc.
IEEE 94(2), 383–394 (2006)
UBS21. Udvarhelyi, B., Bronchain, O., Standaert, F.-X.: Security analysis of deter-
ministic re-keying with masking and shuﬄing: application to ISAP. In:
Bhasin, S., De Santis, F. (eds.) COSADE 2021. LNCS, vol. 12910, pp. 168–
183. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-89915-8 8
UXT+22. Ueno, R., Xagawa, K., Tanaka, Y., Ito, A., Takahashi, J., Homma, N.: Curse
of re-encryption: a generic power/EM analysis on post-quantum KEMs.
IACR Trans. Cryptogr. Hardw. Embed. Syst. 2022(1), 296–322 (2022)
VMKS12. Veyrat-Charvillon, N., Medwed, M., Kerckhof, S., Standaert, F.-X.: Shuf-
ﬂing against side-channel attacks: a comprehensive study with cautionary
note. In: Wang, X., Sako, K. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2012. LNCS, vol. 7658,
pp. 740–757. Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
642-34961-4 44

Learning with Physical Rounding for Linear [...] Leakage Functions
439
YC04. Yang, B.-Y., Chen, J.-M.: All in the XL family: theory and practice. In:
Park, C., Chee, S. (eds.) ICISC 2004. LNCS, vol. 3506, pp. 67–86. Springer,
Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/11496618 7
YS16. Yu, Yu., Steinberger, J.: Pseudorandom functions in almost constant depth
from low-noise LPN. In: Fischlin, M., Coron, J.-S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT
2016. LNCS, vol. 9666, pp. 154–183. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-49896-5 6

