List Oblivious Transfer and Applications
to Round-Optimal Black-Box Multiparty
Coin Tossing
Michele Ciampi1(B)
, Rafail Ostrovsky2
, Luisa Siniscalchi3,
and Hendrik Waldner4,5
1 The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK
mciampi@ed.ac.uk
2 University of California, Los Angeles, USA
rafail@cs.ucla.edu
3 Danish Technical University, Copenhagen, Denmark
luisi@dtu.dk
4 University of Maryland, College Park, USA
hwaldner@umd.edu
5 Max Planck Institute for Security and Privacy, Bochum, Germany
Abstract. In this work we study the problem of minimizing the round
complexity for securely evaluating multiparty functionalities while mak-
ing black-box use of polynomial time assumptions. In Eurocrypt 2016,
Garg et al. showed that assuming all parties have access to a broad-
cast channel, then at least four rounds of communication are required to
securely realize non-trivial functionalities in the plain model.
A sequence of works follow-up the result of Garg et al. matching this
lower bound under a variety of assumptions. Unfortunately, none of these
works make black-box use of the underlying cryptographic primitives.
In Crypto 2021, Ishai, Khurana, Sahai, and Srinivasan came closer to
matching the four-round lower bound, obtaining a ﬁve-round protocol
that makes black-box use of oblivious transfer and PKE with pseudo-
random public keys.
In this work, we show how to realize any input-less functionality (e.g.,
coin-tossing, generation of key-pairs, and so on) in four rounds while
making black-box use of two-round oblivious transfer. As an additional
result, we construct the ﬁrst four-round MPC protocol for generic func-
tionalities that makes black-box use of the underlying primitives, achiev-
ing security against non-aborting adversaries.
Our protocols are based on a new primitive called list two-party com-
putation. This primitive oﬀers relaxed security compared to the standard
notion of secure two-party computation. Despite this relaxation, we argue
that this tool suﬃces for our applications. List two-party computation is
of independent interest, as we argue it can also be used for the generation
of setups, like oblivious transfer correlated randomness, in three rounds.
Prior to our work, generating such a setup required at least four rounds
of interactions or a trusted third party.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2023
H. Handschuh and A. Lysyanskaya (Eds.): CRYPTO 2023, LNCS 14081, pp. 459–488, 2023.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-38557-5_15

460
M. Ciampi et al.
1
Introduction
Secure multi-party computation (MPC) [11,29] allows a group of mutually dis-
trustful parties to jointly evaluate any function over their private inputs in such
a way that no one learns anything beyond the output of the function. Since its
introduction, MPC has been extensively studied in terms of assumptions, complex-
ity, security deﬁnitions, and execution models [2,4,6,8–12,18,20,21,23,25,26,28].
In [10], Garg et al. established that four rounds are necessary to securely realize
non-trivial functionalities (e.g., coin tossing) in the plain model with static cor-
ruption and black-box simulation1 in the dishonest majority setting. A sequence
of works tried to match this lower bound for the multi-party setting [2,6], and
ﬁnally [3,14] showed the ﬁrst four-round protocols based on polynomial time num-
ber theoretic assumptions. This result was later improved in [7] proposing a four-
round scheme based on malicious secure oblivious transfer (OT).
Unfortunately, all these round-optimal protocols make non-black-box use of
the underlying primitives. Recently, Ishai, Khurana, Sahai, and Srinivasan [17]
came close to closing this gap, proposing a ﬁve-round protocol that makes black-
box use of oblivious transfer and public-key encryption (PKE) with pseudoran-
dom public keys. Prior to their work, MPC protocols that use the underlying
primitives in a black-box way needed more than 15 rounds [12,18,28]. This leaves
open the following questions:
What is the best-possible round complexity for securely evaluating any
multi-party functionality in the plain model when the majority of the par-
ties are corrupted while using the underlying cryptographic primitives in a
black-box way?
1.1
Our Contribution
In this work, we partially answer the above question by constructing the ﬁrst
round-optimal MPC protocol for computing any input-less functionality (e.g.,
coin tossing), while making black-box use of any perfect correct two-round pri-
vate OT protocol. The notion of private OT, introduced in [1,24], requires that
the receiver’s only message is computationally indistinguishable between the
cases where its input bit b is equal to 0 or 1. Moreover, regardless of the receiver’s
ﬁrst message, the sender’s message hides at least one of its inputs (denoted by
s0 and s1). Private OT can be obtained from LWE [5], or number theoretic
assumptions such as DDH [1,24] and DCR [19]. As an additional contribution,
we show how to securely realize any eﬃciently computable functionality in four
rounds, while relying on the same assumptions, against a weaker form of adver-
saries that promises to not abort during the computation with some unknown
non-negligible probability. We will refer to this type of adversary as sometimes
aborting. In summary, we prove the following theorems.
1 All the results discussed and presented in this paper are with respect to black-box
simulation. Hence, we will not specify this in the remainder of the paper.

List Oblivious Transfer and Applications to Round-Optimal Coin Tossing
461
Theorem 1 (informal). Assuming two-round private OTs, then there exists a
4-round MPC protocol that realizes any multi-party input-less functionality with
black-box use of the underlying primitives.
Theorem 2 (informal). Assuming two-round private OTs, then there exists a 4-
round MPC protocol that realizes any multi-party functionality with black-box use
of the underlying primitives in the presence of sometimes aborting adversaries.
Our protocols are based on a new primitive called list two-party computation.
This notion is an extension of the deﬁnition of list coin-tossing introduced in [3].
List coin tossing relaxes the standard simulation-based security deﬁnition, by
allowing the adversary (hence, the simulator) to query the ideal functionality
multiple times, thus obtaining multiple outputs (uniform random strings in this
case). The adversary can then force the output of the honest parties to be one
of the strings received from the ideal functionality.
List two-party computation (2PC) extends the notion of list coin-tossing to
generic functionalities. In particular, we start by considering the list OT func-
tionality. In this setting, for a corrupted receiver, the ideal world is formalized
as follows: the adversary provides its input b and a parameter κ to the ideal
functionality. The ideal functionality then samples κ random pairs (si
0, si
1)i∈κ
uniformly at random, and provides (si
b)i∈k to the adversary. The adversary now
picks an index j ∈[κ] and sends it to the ideal functionality, who delivers (sj
0, sj
1)
to the sender in the ideal world. In summary, we allow the adversarial receiver to
slightly bias the output of the computation. In [3], the authors observe that list
coin-tossing suﬃces to generate a common random setup (e.g., for non-interactive
zero-knowledge arguments). Similarly, we can argue that list-OT is suﬃcient for
the generation of correlated OT randomness.
As previously mentioned, we propose a notion that is generic for any two-
party functionality f. Suppose that only one party receives the output, so we
can distinguish between a sender S and a receiver R, and let us assume that R
is corrupted. The ideal functionality, upon receiving the input of the corrupted
party xR and κ, samples for each i ∈[κ] an input (according to some distribution
by which the ideal world is parametrized) from the input domain of the sender,
obtaining xi
S. Afterwards, it computes yi ←f(xi
R, xi
S) and delivers {yi}i∈[k] to
the adversary. Upon receiving j from the adversary, the functionality returns
(xj
R) to the ideal world sender.
We show how to instantiate a list two-party protocol in just three rounds,
where, in each round, both of the parties speak at the same time (this communi-
cation model is often referred to as the simultaneous message model), while mak-
ing black-box use of the underlying cryptographic primitives. This tool will form
the basis to instantiate our 3-round list-simulatable non-malleable OT protocol,
which we will then plug into the MPC protocol proposed in [17] to obtain the
ﬁrst 4-round MPC protocol for input-less functionalities. We give more details
on this in the next section. Additionally, we also show that a slight modiﬁcation
of this protocol yields the ﬁrst round-optimal MPC protocol that realizes any
functionality against sometimes aborting adversaries. We ﬁnally note that our

462
M. Ciampi et al.
list-OT protocol can be used to generate OT-correlated randomness in just three
rounds. Prior results, required the execution of a four-round protocol or needed
to rely on a trusted party for generating this type of setup. Closing the gap com-
pletely, and showing how to obtain a round optimal MPC protocol for generic
functionalities from polynomial time assumptions while making black-box use of
the underlying primitives, remains an important open question.
1.2
Technical Overview
List Oblivious Transfer. The ﬁrst tool we construct, which will form the base
of our three-round 2PC protocol, is a list OT protocol. Our protocol is based
on a two-round private OT protocol which we denote with OTpriv. Our list OT
protocol, which we denote with OTlist, works as follows: the sender and receiver
run an OT combiner2 on two instances of OTpriv. In the second round, the sender
tosses a random coin c and asks the receiver to send a valid defence3 for the c-th
execution of OTpriv. The receiver sends the defence to the sender, which accepts
if the defence is valid. The security of the combiner guarantees that the input
choice of the receiver remains protected, even if the randomness of one of the
OT instances is leaked. Hence, the obtained protocol preserves the privacy of the
receiver’s input. To prove that the protocol is list simulatable against corrupted
receivers, we construct a simulator that rewinds the second round by sending a
new coin c′ ̸= c. Upon receiving the defence for the remaining OT protocol, the
simulator is able to reconstruct the input of the receiver.
There are many aspects that have not been taken into account in this high level
description. For example, the list simulator needs to receive a valid third round to
complete the simulation. If the corrupted receiver is rushing, then the simulator
needs to complete an entire execution of the protocol before starting the extrac-
tion procedure. To do this, the simulator uses random inputs, during the main
thread and the rewinding threads, and behaves as an honest sender would. After
the extraction is performed, the simulator can query the ideal functionality with
the choice bit of the receiver b and obtains as a reply sb, which can then be used in
the simulation. In more detail, the simulator rewinds the adversary and uses the
input (sb, sb) to execute the OT combiner as the honest sender would. This app-
roach is still unsatisfactory since it encounters the same issue as observed in [17].
Indeed, it may be that the receiver aborts when receiving the output sb, whereas
it did not abort in the main thread (where the simulator may have used s′
b ̸= sb).
This is the reason why Badrinarayanan et al. [3] considered a relaxed ideal func-
tionality, that returns many possible outputs to the adversary (and the simulator),
which gives the simulator multiple opportunities to force the output to the receiver.
2 We recall that an OT combiner allows combining two (or more) OT instances to
obtain a new OT instance, that is guaranteed to be secure, as long as one of the
input instances is not compromise. We refer to [16] for more details on OT combiners.
Moreover, for our formal constructions we will not rely on a combiner in a black-box
way, we will instead use techniques similar to those proposed in [16] to properly
combine our OT protocols.
3 A defence of a protocol execution is represented by the randomness and input that
explain the generated transcript.

List Oblivious Transfer and Applications to Round-Optimal Coin Tossing
463
There are two main aspects left to clarify. The protocol just described works
under the assumption that the input of the sender is sampled uniformly at
random from a sampling space of exponential size (or at least with high min-
entropy). This condition is necessary to prove the security of all the list-protocols
we propose in this work. We also note that the protocol just described is still
not secure. A receiver could decide to complete the protocol when c = 0 and
abort when c = 1. Against such an adversary the simulator clearly fails. To solve
this problem, the sender performs an n-out-of-n (where n is polynomial in the
security parameter) secret sharing of its two inputs, thus obtaining (s1
0, . . . , sn
0),
(s1
1, . . . , sn
1). Then, the sender and the receiver engage in n repetitions of the
described protocol, where the sender uses as its input to the i-th combiner the
values (si
0, si
1), and the receiver uses its bit b. We can now argue that the simula-
tor will successfully extract from at least one of the executions after (expected)
polynomially many rewinds. We highlight that if the corrupted receiver uses dif-
ferent inputs in diﬀerent executions of the combiner, the receiver will not obtain
enough shares to reconstruct neither s0 nor s1.
Unfortunately, we are only able to prove the property of list simulation
against an adversary that does not abort in the third round. If a corrupted
receiver does abort, then there is no hope of extracting its input. We can still
argue that, in this case, the privacy of the sender’s input remains, in the same
way as for OTpriv.
Another crucial property we require from our OT protocol is B-rewind security
(we elaborate more on the reason why we require it later in this section). This prop-
erty guarantees that all the parties’ inputs remain protected even if the adversary
is able to rewind the receiver B times, thus getting multiple valid third rounds com-
puted with respect to B + 1 diﬀerent second rounds. Our protocol OTlist trivially
does not achieve this property in the case of a corrupted sender (i.e., a corrupted
sender could act as the list-simulator and extract the receiver’s input). To achieve
1-rewind security, we iterate the idea of the combiners twice. More precisely, in
each of the n iterations, we consider four executions of OTpriv (let us denote each
instance as leaf ), and apply a combiner on the ﬁrst two leaves, therefore obtaining
a new OT protocol (which we call left node). We do the same for the second two
leaves thus obtaining a new OT protocol (denoted by right node). Afterwards, we
apply a combiner on the two nodes (obtaining the root). The sender now sends a
challenge c ∈{0, 1}2 that determines how to navigate the constructed tree. In more
detail, the ﬁrst bit of c selects the node, and the last bit selects the leaf. For the
selected leaf, the receiver will provide the defence. Now, even if a corrupted sender
rewinds the receiver, the best it can achieve is to extract 2 out of 4 defenses among
the four diﬀerent executions of OTpriv, and the security achieved by the combiners
protects the input of the receiver. To increase the rewind security of the protocol,
we can iterate the above approach recursively.
To construct a list protocol for generic functionalities, we use the 1-out-of-2
OT protocol just described, and a (B-rewind secure) k-out-of-n list OT protocol.
To obtain such a protocol, we devise a compiler inspired by [27] that turns our
1-out-of-2 OT protocol into a k-out-of-n OT protocol while preserving the round
complexity and all the security properties of the underlying 1-out-of-2 protocol.

464
M. Ciampi et al.
In the remainder of this section, we denote by OTListRew
1,2
and OTListRew
k,n
the 1-
out-of-2 and the k-out-of-n list-oblivious transfer B-rewind secure protocols,
respectively.
List Two-Party Computation. The main structure of our two-party protocol
is the same as the one proposed in [17]. The protocol of [17] can be seen as being
composed of two main components: a four-round oblivious transfer protocol, and
an application of the IPS [18] compiler that uses the OT to perform a cut-and-
choose (this is often referred as the watchlist mechanism). The main reason why
the 2PC protocol of [17] requires four-rounds is due to the use of a simulation
based secure oblivious transfer protocol. Indeed, to obtain such an OT protocol,
four rounds of communication are necessary.
At a very high level, to obtain our three-round protocol, we replace the 4-
round OT protocol with a 3-round OT protocol, that is simulation based secure
against corrupted senders, and list simulatable against corrupted receivers. Our
main contribution is to construct such a 3-round OT protocol. We now give a
sketch of this protocol.4
To achieve our goal, we need to enhance the security of OTListRew
1,2
, and make it
simulation based secure against corrupted senders, while preserving the list simu-
latability against corrupted receivers. To do that, we need a way to force the sender
to compute its messages honestly and employ a mechanism that allows the extrac-
tion of the sender’s inputs. The general idea to achieve this is the following: we
let the sender and the receiver engage in multiple executions of OTListRew
1,2
, and run
a cut-and-choose to check that the sender is behaving correctly in a big portion
of the OT executions (for this to work, the input of the sender needs to be prop-
erly secret shared among the executions. For simplicity, we will ignore this aspect
in this overview). Unfortunately, this approach does not work in our case, because
we only have a total of three rounds, and the ﬁrst message of the sender of OTListRew
1,2
appears in the second round. Hence, there is no room for the cut-and-choose (if the
receiver sends the challenge in the ﬁrst or the second round the sender can adap-
tively decide which execution to perform correctly and which to perform incor-
rectly). To solve this problem we hide the challenge of the cut-and-choose using
our k-out-of-n OT protocol OTListRew
k,n
. The protocol to hide the challenge is run in
parallel with the executions of OTListRew
1,2
. In this protocol, the receiver inputs a ran-
dom set of indices denoted with K, where |K| = k (with k being a parameter that
depends on the cut-and-choose), and the sender uses as its input the n defences
for the executions of OTListRew
1,2
. At the end of the protocol, the receiver accepts the
output only if all the k defences obtained from OTListRew
k,n
are valid. Intuitively, this
approach should guarantee that a big portion of the 1-out-of-2 OT executions are
correct. Unfortunately, it is not clear how this can be formally argued. Indeed, one
would like to claim that if this does not hold (i.e., the majority of the 1-out-of-2
OTs are not correct), then we can construct a reduction that breaks the receiver
privacy of OTListRew
k,n
.
4 Our formal construction directly uses OTlist to obtain a 3-round list 2PC protocol, so
we do not need an intermediate step where we instantiate this special OT protocol,
which is instead implicit in our 2PC protocol.

List Oblivious Transfer and Applications to Round-Optimal Coin Tossing
465
The reason why this is non-trivial is that the reduction would need to check
in which of the OTListRew
1,2
executions the sender is behaving correctly, and this
would reveal information about what input is used by the challenger (which is
acting as the receiver) of OTListRew
k,n
in the reduction. For example, if we could
detect that the sender’s messages in the i-th execution of OTListRew
1,2
are not
well-formed, then we know that i /∈K with some non-negligible probability.
The problem is that the reduction cannot eﬃciently check which executions are
correct and which executions are not. To enable an eﬃcient check, we modify
the protocol requiring the sender to commit to the defence via a three-round
extractable commitment scheme. We also require the sender, to input to the
OTListRew
k,n
the randomness used to compute the extractable commitments. Hence,
the honest receiver accepts the output if the randomness obtained via OTListRew
k,n
is
valid with respect to the extractable commitments, and, moreover, the messages
committed are valid defences for k executions of OTListRew
1,2
. The reduction to the
receiver security of OTListRew
k,n
can now extract from the extractable commitments,
and check which OTListRew
1,2
executions are executed honestly by the sender. This
information can then be used by the reduction to infer what value K is used
by the challenger, thus reaching a contradiction. We note that this reduction
crucially relies on the rewind security of OTListRew
k,n
. Indeed, we need to make sure
that we can extract from the extractable commitments while not perturbing the
reduction to the receiver security of OTListRew
k,n
. The addition of the extractable
commitments helps us also in designing the simulator, allowing the simulator to
extract the sender’s input using the extractable commitments.
Now, we have constructed a three-round protocol that is simulation based
secure against corrupted senders. We further need to make sure that this pro-
tocol is list-simulatable against corrupted receivers. At a high level, the list
simulator runs the list simulators for OTListRew
k,n
and OTListRew
1,2
, where the input
extracted by the simulator of OTListRew
1,2
deﬁnes the choice bit of the receiver, and
the values returned by the simulator of OTListRew
k,n
help to program which of the
extractable commitments must contain a valid defence, and which commitments
instead should contain a dummy value (e.g., the all-zero string). There are two
subtleties in this simulation strategy. First, once K is extracted, the extractable
commitments need to be programmed accordingly. Unfortunately, this is not pos-
sible if the extractable commitments are binding in the ﬁrst round. This problem
can be easily solved by using a delayed-input extractable commitment scheme.
The other problem is related to the fact that, in the security proof, we need to
rely on the hiding of the extractable commitments. In particular, we would need
to rely on the hiding property while we are running the simulator of OTListRew
1,2
,
hence, we need an extractable commitment that is secure against rewinds. This
creates a circularity, since we already require OTListRew
1,2
to be 1-rewind secure, but
1-rewind security is already suﬃcient to extract from the extractable commit-
ment. Furthermore, we want to extract the input by rewinding OTListRew
1,2
while
maintaining the hiding of the extractable commitment. To break this circularity,
we rely on an extractable commitment that has a simulatable third round [15]. In

466
M. Ciampi et al.
a nutshell, this property allows to simulate a third round of the extractable com-
mitment without knowing the randomness used to compute the ﬁrst message.
This property breaks the circularity, but it inherently makes the commitment
extractable with over-extraction, hence, some eﬀort is needed to show that all
the arguments we have summarized in this section still hold.
Unfortunately, our 2PC has a limitation. The proof against corrupted
receivers crucially relies on the fact that the value K can be extracted. This
indicates which defences of the executions of OTListRew
1,2
the adversary will not
obtain, and allows us to rely on the sender security of OTListRew
1,2
. If a corrupted
sender aborts in the third round, the extraction of K is not possible, which results
in the simulator being stuck. For this reason, we prove that our 2PC enjoys a
relaxed form of security, which guarantees that the simulation succeeds only
when the corrupted sender provides an accepting transcript in the main-thread.
Despite this limitation, we show that our 2PC suﬃces for our main applications.
List Non-malleable OT. The notion of non-malleable oblivious transfer has
been introduced in [17]. In this notion, there is a man-in-the-middle adversary
MiM that acts as a receiver in a subset of OT sessions (referred to as the left
sessions) and as a sender in a diﬀerent subset of OT sessions (referred to as
the right sessions). A non-malleable OT requires the input used by the MiM
acting as the sender being independent of the input used by the honest senders
in the left sessions. This is formalized by requiring the existence of a simulator-
extractor, that, given the inputs of all honest receivers participating in the right
sessions, is able to extract all the implicit inputs used by the MiM in its right
sessions. Note that the simulator does not have access to the inputs of the senders
in the left session.
We recall how the Ishai et al. (four-round) construction, which we denote
by OTNM, works and then explain how we squeeze it into three rounds allowing
us to obtain a list simulatable version of the protocol. The 1-out-of-2 NM-OT
protocol of [17], uses a 4-round simulation secure two-party computation protocol
Π that enjoys some special properties (we will elaborate more on this later) and
a two split-state non-malleable code NM = (Code, Decode).5 The sender of OTNM
uses inputs L0, R0 and L1, R1 which are obtained by running Code on s0 and s1
respectively (where s0 and s1 represent the inputs of the OT sender). The receiver
of OTNM uses as its input the choice bit b. Then sender and receiver execute Π
for the functionality fc, where c is a random bit chosen by the receiver in the
third round. fc takes as its input L0, R0, L1, R1, s0, s1, c, b and returns mb, L0, L1
if c = 0 and mb, R0, R1 otherwise.
The authors of [17] require that Π has the following properties: (1) the
receiver input b is committed in the ﬁrst round and security holds even if the
5 A split state non-malleable code has an encoding algorithm Code that, on input a
message m returns two codewords L and R. The security of the non-malleable code
guarantees that there are no tampering functions f and g, that taking as an input
L and R, respectively, return ˜L and ˜R, such that the decoding of these tampered
codewords has a relation with the message m.

List Oblivious Transfer and Applications to Round-Optimal Coin Tossing
467
receiver can adaptively select the function to be computed (i.e., the parameter
c) in the third round; (2) the inputs of the sender are committed in the 2nd
round; (3) Π is 1-rewinding sender secure. To argue that non-malleability holds,
Ishai et.al. rely on an extractor, that can compute all the codewords of the MiM
acting as senders in the right sessions, by sending diﬀerent values of c through
multiple rewinds.
In our approach, we follow a similar blueprint but use our three-round two-
party computation protocol Π that satisﬁes the notion of list simulatability. We
can prove that our 2PC also satisﬁes properties (1) and (3) mentioned above.
However, the input of the sender in Π is ﬁxed in the last round. Hence, the inputs
of the sender can change during the rewinds executed to extract from MiM.
Therefore, we modify the non-malleable OT protocols as follows: we require the
sender to commit via a non-interactive commitment scheme to each codeword.
We then modify the function computed by the 2PC protocol in such a way that
when c = 0, the opening of the commitment for the left state codewords is sent
as an additional output of the 2PC, and, if c = 1, the opening of the commitment
for the right state codeword is sent. Unfortunately, forcing the sender to commit
to their inputs causes problems in the list simulation proof. In particular, we
have the same issue we had when designing the 2PC. That is, the list-simulator
needs to use random inputs during the extraction phase but, if we commit to the
codewords, we are implicitly committing to the sender’s input in the ﬁrst round.
This prevents the simulator from changing those values after the extraction. To
solve this issue, we do not commit to the codeword, instead, we commit to a share
of each codeword and output the other share in the clear in the second round.
Now, even if the input of the sender is speciﬁed in the second round, we have the
advantage that the extractor can collect the openings of all the commitments
via rewinds. The opened value can then be combined with the shares sent in the
clear in the second round of the main thread to ﬁnally reconstruct the codewords
used by the MiM (in the main thread).
There still remains a single issue. We recall that the receiver speciﬁes the
c value in the second round, hence, the MiM could adaptively commit to an
invalid codeword by sending a random share instead of the correct codeword
share in the third round. We prevent this by hiding the c values as follows: the
receiver sends c ⊕k, where k is an input given to the 2PC protocol. Hence, the
2PC protocol can compute c and return either the opening of the commitment
for the left codeword or the opening of the commitment for the right codeword,
but the sender does not know what c has been used by the receiver. We recall
that our 2PC protocol Π does not provide any protection of the sender’s input
if the receiver is aborting. This limitation is inherited by our non-malleable OT
protocol. For more details on how our non-malleable OT protocol works, we refer
to the technical section of this work.
Four-Round Multi-party Computation. Also in this last step, we follow the
approach proposed in [17], which, in turn, is based on the IPS compiler [18].
This compiler combines an information-theoretic MPC protocol Φ (called
outer protocol), secure in the honest majority setting, and a semi-honest pro-

468
M. Ciampi et al.
tocol secure against a dishonest majority Πh called inner protocol. The inner
protocol is used to emulate an execution of Φ, which guarantees that the mes-
sages of Φ are generated honestly, as long as the parties running Πh behave
semi-honestly. To guarantee security in the malicious setting, the IPS compiler
requires to perform a cut-and-choose to check that the majority of the parties
are running Πh honestly. This cut-and-choose is performed by relying on corre-
lated OT randomness. In [17] the authors manage to make this paradigm work
in just 5 rounds, using a 4-round inner protocol, and a 4-round non-malleable
OT protocol for the generation of the correlated randomness.
In this work, we follow the same approach by relying on our three-round
non-malleable OT protocol, and on a three-round semi-honest MPC protocol
to realize the inner protocol. The main diﬀerence is that we are able to prove
the security of the MPC protocol only against non-aborting adversaries. But, as
mentioned before, this still suﬃces to securely realize any input-less functionality
with standard simulation based security. Furthermore, our inner-protocol also
needs to achieve our special security notion in which the inputs of the honest
parties are sampled from a certain distribution by the ideal functionality in a
similar fashion as in our list-2PC deﬁnition. This modiﬁcation, with respect to
the inner-protocol of [17], is needed to allow for later equivocality of the simulator
to ensure that the overall protocol can be simulated in four-rounds.
2
Preliminaries
We assume familiarity with the notions of secret sharing, commitment, pseudo-
random functions, CPA security, and multi-party computation. In this section,
we introduce the core notions needed for our constructions and refer to the full
version for the formal deﬁnitions of all the primitives involved.
Notation. We let ViewB
Π,A(λ, x, y) be the random variable corresponding to the
view of A in an execution of Π with B where A uses x as its input and B uses y as
its input. If an algorithm A outputs a transcript τ, then we call the input d that
explains the output, i.e. τ = A(d), its defense. We denote the security parameter
with λ ∈N. A randomized algorithm A is running in probabilistic polynomial
time (PPT) if there exists a polynomial p(·) such that for every input x the
running time of A(x) is bounded by p(|x|). We use “=” to check equality of two
diﬀerent elements (i.e. a = b then...) and “:=” as the assigning operator (e.g. to
assign to a the value of b we write a := b). A randomized assignment is denoted
with a ←A, where A is a randomized algorithm. If the randomness is explicit
we write a := A(x; r) where x is the input and r is the randomness. When it is
clear from the context, to not overburden the notation, we do not specify the
randomness used in the algorithms unless needed for other purposes.
Rewind Secure Extractable Commitment Scheme.
We propose, in
Fig. 2.1, a delayed-input, 1-rewind secure 3-extractable 3-round commitment
scheme ExtCom. A 3-round commitment scheme is: delayed-input if the sender
uses its input only to compute the last round of the protocol; 3-extractable, if

List Oblivious Transfer and Applications to Round-Optimal Coin Tossing
469
there exists an extractor that upon receiving three accepting transcripts com-
puted with respect to the same ﬁrst round but diﬀerent second rounds, returns
the committed message (we refer to the full version for the formal deﬁnitions).
This commitment scheme is inspired by [13,22]. We prove the 3-extractability
property as follows.
Figure 2.1: Rewind secure Extractable Commitment.
Public parameters: Prime q > λ.
Senders’ private input: message m ∈Fq (available to the sender only
in the third round).
1)
Sender.
Sample
r, s, m0
←
Fq,
compute
and
send
, ←
Com(m0||r||s).
2) Receiver. Sample and send α ←Fq.
3) Sender Compute m1 ←m + m0 and a ←m + αr + α2s, and send
(a, m1).
ExtCom also enjoys the property of simulatability [14]. The simulatability
property requires that no adversarial receiver can distinguish whether a third
round of the protocol is computed correctly, or with respect to a random input.
We refer to the full version for the formal deﬁnition and all the proofs.
Private Two-Message Oblivious Transfer. A two-message oblivious trans-
fer protocol consists of a tuple PPT algorithm OT = (OT1, OT2, OT3) with the
following syntax.
– OT1(1λ, β) takes the security parameter λ and a selection bit β and outputs
a message ot1 and secret state st.
– OT2(1λ, (ν0, ν1), ot1) takes the security parameter λ and two inputs (ν0, ν1) ∈
{0, 1}len (where len is a parameter of the scheme) and a message ot1. It outputs
a message ot2.
– OT3(1λ, st, ot2, β) takes the security parameter, the bit β, secret state st and
message ot2 and outputs νβ ∈{0, 1}len.
Deﬁnition 2.1 ([5]). A tuple PPT algorithm OT = (OT1, OT2, OT3) is a
private-OT scheme if the following hold.
Correctness: For all λ, β, ν0, ν1, letting (ot1, st) = OT1(1λ, β), ot2 = OT2(1λ,
(ν0, ν1), ot1), ν′ = OT3(1λ, st, ot2, β), it holds that ν′ = νβ with probability 1.
Receiver
Privacy: Consider the distribution Dβ(λ) deﬁned by running
(ot1, st) = OT1(1λ, β) and outputting ot1. Then D0, D1 are computationally
indistinguishable.
Sender Privacy: There exists an extractor OTExt s.t. for any sequence of
messages ot1 = ot1(λ) and inputs (ν0, ν1) = (ν0(λ), ν1(λ)), the distribu-
tion ensembles OT2(1λ, (ν0, ν1), ot1) and OT2(1λ, (νβ′, νβ′), ot1), where β′ =
OTExt(ot1), are statistically indistinguishable.

470
M. Ciampi et al.
Bounded Rewind Secure OT. A bounded rewind secure OT is deﬁned as a stan-
dard OT protocol, with the diﬀerence that the corrupted party can receive mul-
tiple, in our case, third rounds of the protocol while still preserving the security
for the honest party’s input. In other words, we say that a protocol is B-rewind
secure if security is maintained even when the malicious party (either sender or
receiver) is allowed to obtain B + 1 third-round messages with respect to B + 1
diﬀerent second rounds. We refer to the full version for a formal deﬁnition.
Non-malleable Codes. A non-malleable code consists of an encoding algorithm
Enc and a decoding algorithm Dec. When a message m is encoded, then the
resulting codeword consists of two parts L and R. Taking both of theses parts
of the codeword, the decoding algorithm Dec allows to reconstruct the message
m. The security property of the non-malleable code guarantees that for every
pair of tampering functions (f, g), without any ﬁxed points, the distribution of
m′ ←Enc(f(L), g(R)), with (L, R) ←Enc(m) is independent of m. The formal
deﬁnition of this primitive can be found in the full version.
Low-Depth Proofs. A low-depth proof is deﬁned as a standard proof achieving
completeness (a proof generated using a correct witness is valid) and soundness
(it is not possible to generate a proof for an invalid statement). Furthermore, we
require that a proof can be veriﬁed using an NC1 circuit, which is the low-depth
property. We provide the formal deﬁnitions in the full version.
3
Bounded-Rewind Secure List 2-Party Computation
In this section, we introduce the notion of bounded-rewind secure list 2-party
computation. Let f be the function that the two parties P0 and P1 want to
compute. f : X0 × X1 →Y is a function that takes two inputs and returns two
outputs (one for each party). We denote with X d a PPT sampler for Xd for each
d ∈{0, 1}.
The notion of list 2PC diﬀers from the standard notion of 2PC as follows:
let us say that the party P0 is corrupted and P1 is honest. In the ideal world
experiment, the adversary sends its input x0 ∈X 0 to the ideal functionality,
which we denote with FX 1, together with an integer k. The ideal functional-
ity does not wait to receive the input from the honest party, instead, it sam-
ples k inputs uniformly at random from the input domain of the honest party
x1
1, . . . , x1
k ←X 1, and, for each j ∈[k] computes (out0
j, out1
j) ←f(x0, x1
j). Then
the values (out0
1, . . . , out0
k) are given to the adversary. The adversary now sends
an index i ∈[k] to the ideal functionality, which then sends (x1
i , out1
i ) to the
ideal-world honest party.
In our work, we focus on constructing and studying 3-round list 2PC proto-
cols, where in each round both parties speak at the same time. We study our
notion in a stronger adversarial setting where the adversary can ask the honest
party to receive multiple third rounds for multiple second rounds. A protocol
that is proven secure in this setting is usually said to be B-rewind secure, which

List Oblivious Transfer and Applications to Round-Optimal Coin Tossing
471
means that the adversary can send B + 1 second rounds and receive B + 1 third
rounds (one for each second round). We propose the formal deﬁnition of the real
and the ideal world in Fig. 3.1, where the party P d is assumed to be corrupted
with d ∈{0, 1}. To make a protocol that satisﬁes our deﬁnition usable as a
sub-routine of other protocols, we need to make sure that the distinguisher has
somehow access to the inputs of the honest parties. In the ideal world, we do
that by explicitly giving this input to the adversary together with the second
round of the protocol. In the ideal world experiment, we do something simi-
lar by allowing sending to the adversary the input of the honest parties upon
request of the simulator. More precisely, if the simulator sends a message to the
adversary (π, j), then the ideal-world experiment would forward to the adver-
sary the message (π, x1−d
j
). This guarantees that the distinguisher will get access
to the honest party’s input, while the simulator does not (this is exactly what
makes our deﬁnition non-trivial to realize). We refer to Fig. 3.1 for the formal
speciﬁcation of real and ideal world and state the following.
Deﬁnition 3.1 (B-rewind secure list 2PC). We say that a protocol Π
is a B-rewind secure List 2PC if for every malicious PPT P1−d, with d ∈
{0, 1}, there exists a (expected) PPT simulator Sim = {Sim1, Sim2} such that
{RealA,Π(1λ, 1B)}λ,B ≈c {IdealSim,FXd (1λ, 1B)}λ,B, where λ, B ∈N.
Figure 3.1: Real and ideal world
RealA,Π(1λ, 1B):
1. Sample xd ←X d, and compute the
ﬁrst round πd
1 of Π as the honest Pd
would do on input xd and the ran-
domness r ←{0, 1}λ and send πd
1 to
A.
2. Upon receiving π1−d
1
from A, com-
pute the second round πd
2 of Π as
the honest party Pd on input (r, xd)
would do and send (πd
2, xd) to A.
3. Upon receiving {π1−d
2,i }i∈[B] from A,
for each i ∈[B], compute πd
3,i as the
honest party Pd would do having on
input (π1−d
1
, π1−d
2,i , r, xd).
4. Send {πd
3,i}i∈[B] to A.
5. Upon receiving π1−d
3
, compute the
output out as Pd would do, and return
the view of A.
IdealSim,FXd(1λ, 1B):
1. (x1−d, 1k, z) ←SimA
1 (1λ, 1B)
2. Send
x1−d
to
the
ideal
func-
tionality
FXd
which
computes
{out0
j, out1
j}j∈[k] as described using
the sampled inputs {xd
j }j∈[k].
3. Whenever SimA
2 queries A with a mes-
sage (π, j), replace the query with
(π, xd
j ) and forward the pair to A.
4. (i, View)
←
SimA
2 (out1−d
1
, . . . ,
out1−d
k
, z) with i ∈[k] ∪{⊥}.
5. Send i to the ideal functionality, or
abort if i = ⊥to instruct the honest
party to abort, and return View.
List Oblivious Transfer. One of the main tools we construct is a protocol that
realizes the OT functionality FOT with list simulation against corrupted sometimes
aborting receivers. Then we show how to use such an OT to construct a 2PC pro-
tocol (where only one party gets the output) that is list simulatable against a cor-
rupted sender, and list simulatable against sometimes aborting receivers. We then
use the 2PC protocol to obtain a non-malleable OT protocol, which retains the
same security as the 2PC protocol.

472
M. Ciampi et al.
3.1
List 2PC with Delayed-Input Function Selection
Deﬁnition 3.2 (Adapted from [17]). Let Π = ((ΠS
1 , ΠR
1 ), (ΠS
2 , ΠR
2 ), (ΠS
3 ,
ΠR
3 ), (ΠS
4 , ΠR
4 ), out) be a 3-round protocol (in the simultaneous message model)
between a receiver R and a sender S with the receiver computing the output at the
end of the third round. We say that Π is 1-rewinding secure list-simulatable with
delayed function selection for NC1 circuits if it satisﬁes the following:
Delayed function Selection. The ﬁrst message functions ΠS
1 , ΠR
1
and the
second message function of the sender ΠS
2 take as input the size of the func-
tion f ∈NC1 to be securely computed and are otherwise, independent of the
function description. The second round message from R contains the explicit
description of the function f to be computed.
1-Rewind receiver security. For every malicious PPT adversary A that cor-
rupts the sender, there exists an expected polynomial (black-box) simulator
SimS = (Sim1
S, Sim2
S) such that for all choices of honest receiver input xR and
the function f ∈NC1 the joint distribution of the view of A and R’s output
in the real execution is computationally indistinguishable from the output of
the ideal experiment described in Fig. 3.2.
Figure 3.2: 1-Rewind receiver security
Real(A, Π, xR):
1. Initialize A with a uniform ran-
dom tape s.
2. Compute πR
1 ←ΠR
1 (xR) and send
it to A.
3. Upon receiving πS
1 , use it to run
ΠR
2 thus obtaining πR
2 , and send it
to A.
4. Upon receiving (πS
2 [0], πS
2 [1]) from
A use ΠR
2
to compute the third
round πR
3 [b] for each b ∈{0, 1} and
send (πR
3 [0], πR
3 [1]) to A.
5. Output whatever A outputs.
Ideal(A, SimR, xR):
1. Initialize A with a uniform ran-
dom tape s.
2. (xS, z) ←Sim1
R(1λ).
3. Send (xS) to the ideal functionality
which returns out ←f(xS, xR).
4. (abort, View) ←Sim2
R(out, z).
5. If abort = 1 then return abort to
the ideal functionality, else return
continue.
6. Return View.
1-Rewind sender security. As in the deﬁnition of list-simulation security,
ideal and real world are parametrized by a distribution XS. The input of the
sender is sampled from XS in the real-world experiment and used to exe-
cute Π. The real-world experiment is exactly the same as the one of Deﬁ-
nition 3.1, with the diﬀerence that the ideal functionality, in addition to the
input of the corrupted receiver xR and 1k, receives two functions (f0, f1).
The ideal functionality then, for each i ∈[k] samples xS ←XS and com-
putes out0
i ←f0(xS, xR), out1
i ←f1(xS, xR). Then the ideal functional-
ity returns {out0
i , out1
i }i∈[k]. We provide the formal description of the ideal
and real-world in Fig. 3.3, and we say that a protocol Π is 1-rewind sender
secure if for every malicious adversary A corrupting the receiver which is
non-aborting in the last round, there exists an expected polynomial time sim-
ulator SimS = (Sim1
R, Sim2
R) such that, given XS we have {Real(A, Π, XS)} ≈
{Ideal(A, SimS, XS)}.

List Oblivious Transfer and Applications to Round-Optimal Coin Tossing
473
Figure 3.3: 1-Rewind sender security.
Real(A, Π, XS):
1. Initialize A with a uniform random
tape s, and sample xS ←XS.
2. Compute πS
1 ←ΠS
1 (xS) and send it
to A.
3. Upon receiving πR
1 , use it to run
ΠS
2
thus
obtaining
πS
2 ,
and
send
(πS
2 , xS) to A.
4. Upon receiving (f0, f1, πR
2 [0], πR
2 [1])
from A use (fb, πR
2 [b]) to compute
the third round πS
3 [b] for each b ∈
{0, 1} and send πS
3 [0], πS
3 [1] to A.
5. Output whatever A outputs.
Ideal(A, SimS, XS):
1. Initialize A with a uniform random
tape s.
2. (xR, f0, f1, 1k, z) ←Sim1A
S (1λ, 1B)
3. Send
(xR, f0, f1)
to
the
ideal
functionality
FXS
which
returns
{out0
j, out1
j}j∈[k]
computed
as
described using the sampled inputs
{xS
j }j∈k.
4. Whenever Sim2A
S
queries A with a
message
(π, j),
replace
the
query
with (π, xd
j ).
5. (i, View)
←
Sim2
S((out0
1, out1
1), . . . , (out0
k, out0
k), z)
with i ∈[k] ∪{⊥}.
6. Send i to the ideal functionality, or
abort if i = ⊥to instruct the honest
party to abort, and return View.
Sometimes Aborting Adversaries. As previously mentioned, we consider the
notion of sometimes aborting adversaries. This notion is the same as the list
simulation notion, but it requires the list simulator to provide a simulated tran-
script with overwhelming probability, conditioned on the adversary providing an
accepting transcript in the main thread. We still provide no security requirements
(unless otherwise speciﬁed), in the case the adversary aborts with overwhelming
probability, or it does not provide an accepting transcript in the main thread.
4
Sender List Simulatable OT
In this section, we construct a three-round OT protocol that is sender side list
simulatable against sometimes aborting, and sender private otherwise. As an
intermediate step, we propose a 3-round oblivious transfer protocol in the alter-
nating message model that is not rewind-secure. This protocol consists of the
following algorithms OT′ = (OT′
1, OT′
2, OT′
3, (OT′S
4 , OT′R
4 )) where OT′R
4
is the
procedure used to compute the output of the OT protocol by the receiver and
OT′S
4 is the procedure run by the sender to decide whether to abort or not. We
present the formal description of the protocol in Fig. 4.1, and refer the reader to
the introductory part of the paper for an informal description of the scheme.
4.1
Construction
The only tool that we need for this construction is a maliciously private two-
round OT protocol denoted as OT = (OT1, OT2, OT3) (Deﬁnition 2.1), where
OT3 is the procedure used by the receiver to compute the output of the OT
protocol. We describe our ﬁrst transformation in Fig. 4.1. We describe the ﬁnal
protocol in the next section.

474
M. Ciampi et al.
Figure 4.1: 3-round sender list simulatable and receiver private OT OT′
Initialization: The receiver uses as its input a bit b and the sender has
input s0, s1. The parties also receive a common parameter m = poly(λ)
as an input.
Round 1 (Receiver).
1. Sample bi ←{0, 1} and compute di = bi ⊕b for all i ∈[m].
2. Generate ot1,i := OT1(1λ, bi; ri) and ot′
1,i := OT1(1λ, di; r′
i) with
ri, r′
i ←{0, 1}λ for all i ∈[m].
3. Send {ot1,i, ot′
1,i}i∈[m] to S.
Round 2 (Sender).
1. Sample ki
c, sc,j ←{0, 1}λ for all i ∈[m], j ∈[m −1], c ∈{0, 1}. Set
sc,m := sc ⊕sc,1 ⊕· · · ⊕sc,m−1 for both c ∈{0, 1}.
2. Compute ct0,i
c
:= ki
c ⊕sc,i and ct1,i
c
:= ki
1⊕c ⊕sc,i for all i ∈[m], c ∈
{0, 1}.
3. Generate ot2,i
←
OT2(ot1,i, (ki
0, ki
1)) and ot′
2,i
←
OT2(ot′
1,i,
((ct0,i
0 , ct0,i
1 ), (ct1,i
0 , ct1,i
1 ))) for all i ∈[m].
4. Sample I ←{0, 1}m.
5. Send {ot2,i, ot′
2,i}i∈[m] and I to R.
Round 3 (Receiver).
1. Send {bi, ri}i∈[m]:Ii=1 and {di, r′
i}i∈[m]:Ii=0 to S.
Oﬄine computation.
Sender:
1. Check that ot1,i := OT1(1λ, bi; ri) for all i ∈[m] where Ii = 1
and ot′
1,i := OT1(1λ, di; r′
i) for all i ∈[m] where Ii = 0.
2. If the previous check does not succeed output ⊥.
Receiver:
1. Obtain
ki
bi
:=
OT3(ot1,i, ot2,i)
and
(ctdi,i
0
, ctdi,i
1
)
:=
OT3(ot1,i, ot2,i) for all i ∈[m].
2. Compute s′
b,i := ki
bi ⊕ctdi,i
b
for all i ∈[m] and output s′
b :=

i∈[m] s′
b,i.
Theorem 4.1. Let X be a high min-entropy random variable deﬁned by a prob-
ability distribution D and let OT be a two round maliciously private OT protocol,
then the OT protocol OT′ described in Fig. 4.1 is a three-round sender list sim-
ulatable OT against sometimes aborting malicious receivers for the functionality
FD
OT (accordingly to Deﬁnition 3.1) and sender private OT otherwise (accordingly
to Deﬁnition 2.1). Moreover, OT′ is receiver private (accordingly to Deﬁnition
2.1). OT′ makes black-box use of OT.
The security proof for this construction, as well as for all following construc-
tions, can be found in the full version.

List Oblivious Transfer and Applications to Round-Optimal Coin Tossing
475
5
Sender List Simulatable and Rewind-Secure Receiver
Private OT
In this section, we present a transformation that turns a three-round oblivious
transfer (OT) protocol, that is receiver private and sender list simulatable, in the
alternating message model into a three-round OT protocol that is still sender side
list simulatable in the same model but, moreover, is B-rewind receiver-private.
The transformation makes use of the oblivious transfer protocol OT′ =
(OT′
1, OT′
2, OT′
3, (OT′S
4 , OT′R
4 )) described in Fig. 4.1 (where we consider a sin-
gle execution of the scheme without repetition).
Figure 5.1: 3-round sender list-simulatable OT and B-rewind receiver pri-
vate OTListRew
Initialization: The sender’s input is s0, s1. The receiver uses as its input
a bit b. The parties also receive a common parameter m := poly(λ).
Round 1 (Receiver).
1. Sample bi ←{0, 1} and compute di = bi ⊕b for all i ∈[m].
2. For all i ∈[m] generate ot0
1,i
:= OT′
1(1λ, bi) and ot1
1,i. :=
OT′
1(1λ, di);
3. Send {ot0
1,i, ot1
1,i}i∈[m] to S.
Round 2 (Sender).
1. Sample ki
c, sc, sc,j ←{0, 1}λ for all i ∈[m], j ∈[m −1], c ∈{0, 1}.
Set sc,m := sc ⊕sc,1 ⊕· · · ⊕sc,m−1 for both c ∈{0, 1}.
2. Compute ct0,i
c
:= ki
c ⊕sc,i and ct1,i
c
:= ki
1⊕c ⊕sc,i for all i ∈[m], c ∈
{0, 1}.
3. Generate ot0
2,i
←OT′
2(ot′
1,i, (ki
0, ki
1)) and ot1
2,i
←OT′
2(ot1,i,
((ct0,i
0 , ct0,i
1 ), (ct1,i
0 , ct1,i
1 ))) for all i ∈[m].
4. Sample I ←{0, 1}m.
5. Send {ot0
2,i, ot1
2,i}i∈[m], I to R.
Round 3 (Receiver).
1. For all i ∈[m], if Ii = 0, compute ot0
3,i ←OT′
3(ot0
1,i, ot0
2,i); other-
wise compute ot1
3,i ←OT′
3(ot1
1,i, ot1
2,i).
2. Send {otIi
3,i}i∈[m] to S.
Oﬄine computation.
Sender:
1. For all i ∈[m], if Ii = 0, check that ⊥̸= OT′S
4 (ot0
1,i, ot0
2,i, ot0
3,i)
otherwise check that ⊥̸= OT′S
4 (ot1
1,i, ot1
2,i, ot1
3,i).
2. If the previous checks do not succeed output ⊥; otherwise out-
put s0, s1.
Receiver:
1. Obtain
ki
bi
:=
OT′R
4 (ot0
1,i, ot0
2,i)
and
(ctdi,i
0
, ctdi,i
1
)
:=
OT′R
4 (ot1
1,i, ot1
2,i) for all i ∈[m].
2. Compute s′
b,i := ki
bi ⊕ctdi,i
b
for all i ∈[m] and output s′
b :=

i∈[m] s′
b,i.

476
M. Ciampi et al.
Theorem 5.1. Let X be a high min-entropy random variable deﬁned by a prob-
ability distribution D and let OT′ be the three-round OT protocol described in
Fig. 4.1 for the functionality FU
OT (where U is the uniform distribution), then the
OT protocol OTListRew described in Fig. 5.1 is a three-round sender list simulat-
able OT against malicious sometimes aborting receivers for the functionality FD
OT
(accordingly to Deﬁnition 3.1) otherwise, OTListRew is sender private (accordingly
to Deﬁnition 2.1). Moreover OTListRew is a B-rewind receiver private OT, with
B = 2. OTListRew makes black-box use of OT′.
5.1
Enhancing B-Rewind Security of OTListRew
In Sect. 5 we described a 1-out-of-two OT OTListRew which is sender list simulat-
able and B-rewind receiver private, where B = 2. The construction is described
in Fig. 5.1, and it uses as a building block a 1-out-of-2 OT OT′ which is sender
list simulatable and only receiver private.
We note that it is possible to construct a 1-out-of-2 OT OTListRew
B′
which
is sender list simulatable and B′-rewind receiver private, for a constant B′ =
6 using the construction described in Fig. 5.1, where the underlying OT used
as a building block is already B-rewind receiver private. In more detail, the
sender and receiver of OTListRew
B′
act exactly as described in Fig. 5.1 but using the
algorithms of OTListRew instead of OT′.
This observation leads to the following theorem.
Theorem 5.2. Let X be a high min-entropy random variable deﬁned by a prob-
ability distribution D and let OTListRew the 1-out-of-two OT described in Fig. 5.1
for the functionality FU
OT (which is 3-rewind receiver private), then the OT proto-
col OTListRew
B′
described above is a three-round sender list simulatable OT against
sometimes aborting malicious receivers for the functionality FD
OT (accordingly to
Deﬁnition 3.1) otherwise, OTListRew is sender private (accordingly to Deﬁnition
2.1). Moreover OTListRew
B′
is a B′-rewind receiver private OT protocol, with B′ = 6
and OTListRew
B′
makes black-box use of OTListRew.
The proof follows similar to the proof of Theorem 5.1. Besides being B-
rewind secure, the presented OT protocol is also parallel composable. The par-
allel composability is important to construct the k-out-of-n OT protocol. In the
full version we prove that our protocol is composable in parallel, and we show
how to use it to construct a k-out-of-n OT protocol. We refer the reader to the
full version for the formal description and proof of the protocol.
6
Two-Party Computation
In this section, we construct a three-round (in the simultaneous message model)
2-party computation protocol Π2PC that is 1-rewinding secure list-simulatable
with delayed function selection for NC1 circuits (we refer to Deﬁnition 3.2 for a
formal deﬁnition). To construct our protocol, we make use of the following tools:

List Oblivious Transfer and Applications to Round-Optimal Coin Tossing
477
– A two-round information-theoretic two client, m server MPC protocol Φ =
(Φ1, {Φ2,i}i∈[m])6 for computing NC1 circuits, that satisﬁes security with
selective abort against a malicious, adaptive adversary corrupting a single
client and at most t = (m −1)/3. Here, we ﬁx m = 8λ. We need the protocol
to satisfy two additional properties:
• We require the ﬁrst round message of the protocol to be independent of
the function description and only depend on its size.
• Given a ﬁrst round message from the clients, the servers in the second
round, are given descriptions of two functions f0, f1 and should be able to
generate the second-round message corresponding to these two functions
on the same ﬁrst-round message from the client. In other words, we require
the protocol’s ﬁrst round message to be reusable once.
In [17] the authors argue how to obtain such a scheme.
– A PRF PRF : {0, 1}λ × {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}∗.
– A symmetric encryption scheme SE = (Enc, Dec).
– The commitment scheme ExtCom = (ExtCom1, ExtCom2, ExtCom3) proposed
in Sect. 2.
– A three-round list simulatable against sometimes aborting adversaries λ-out-
of-m OT protocol OTλ,m:= (OTλ,m
1
, OTλ,m
2
, OTλ,m
3
, OTλ,m
out ). We require the
protocol to be Bot = 6-rewind secure against corrupted receivers for the
uniform distribution U, i.e. for the functionality FU
OT. In more detail, the
uniform distribution U here samples m random strings of length λ each that
act as the randomness si for all i ∈[m] used for the commitment generated
in the ﬁrst round of the protocol.
– A
three-round
list
simulatable
against
sometimes
aborting
corrupted
receivers, and private against corrupted sender 1-out-of-2 OT protocol
OT1,2 := (OT1,2
1 , OT1,2
2 , OT1,2
3 , OT1,2
out) that is Bot = 6 rewind secure against
corrupted receiver for the uniform distribution U, i.e. for the functionality
FU′
OT. In more detail, the uniform distribution U′ here samples two random
strings of length λ each that act as the secret keys (ski,j,k
0
, ski,j,k
1
) used for the
ciphertexts generated in the third round of the protocol.
– A garbling scheme GC = (Garble, Eval).
We propose the formal construction of our protocol in Fig. 6.1, and refer to
the introduction for an informal description of the protocol.
Figure 6.1: The three rounds of the 2PC protocol Π2PC
Initialization: The sender S has input y and the receiver R has input x.
Round 1.
Sender:
1. Compute ,i
1 := ExtCom1(1λ; si) with si ←{0, 1}λ for all i ∈
[m].
6 Here, Φ2,i is the function that takes {yi,j}j∈[ℓ] and {xi,j,k}j∈[ℓ],k∈[λ] as inputs and
ﬁrst reconstructs {xi,j}j∈[ℓ] and then applies the function computed by the i-th
server in the outer protocol Φ on f, {xi,j, yi,j}j∈[ℓ].

478
M. Ciampi et al.
2. Send ({,i
1 }i∈[m]) to R.
Receiver:
1. Compute (x1, . . . , xm) ←Φ1(x). We assume that xi ∈{0, 1}ℓ
and we denote by xi,j the j-th bit of xi fo r all j ∈[ℓ].
2. Sample xi,j,1, . . . , xi,j,λ−1 ←{0, 1} and set xi,j,λ−1 := xi,j
⊕k∈[λ−1] xi,j,k for all i ∈[m], j ∈[ℓ].
3. Choose a random subset K ⊂[m].
4. For all i ∈[m], j ∈[ℓ], k ∈[λ] sample ri,j,k ←{0, 1}λ and
compute oti,j,k
1
←OT1,2
1 (1λ, xi,j,k). Sample r ←{0, 1}λ and
compute ot1 ←OTλ,m
1
(1λ, K; r).
5. Send oti
1 and {oti,j,k
1
}i∈[m],j∈[ℓ],k∈[λ] to S.
Round 2.
Sender:
1. Sample ski,j,k
0
, ski,j,k
1
←{0, 1}λ for all i ∈[m], j ∈[ℓ] and
k ∈[λ].
2. Sample ρi,j,k and compute oti,j,k
2
←OT1,2
2 (oti,j,k
1
, (ski,j,k
0
,
ski,j,k
1
); ρi,j,k) for all i ∈[m], j ∈[ℓ] and k ∈[λ].
3. Compute ot2 ←OTλ,m
2
(ot1, {sj}j∈[m]).
4. Send ot2 and {oti,j,k
2
}i∈[m],j∈[ℓ],k∈[λ] to R.
Receiver:
1. Compute ,i
2 ←ExtCom2(,i
1 ) for all i ∈[m].
2. Send ({,i
2 }i∈[m], f) to S.
Round 3.
Sender:
1. Sample ki ←{0, 1}λ for all i ∈[m].
2. Compute (y1, . . . , ym) ←Φ(y). We assume that yi ∈{0, 1}ℓ
and we denote by yi,j the j-th bit of yi for all j ∈[ℓ].
3. Compute
,i
3 :=
ExtCom3(1λ, yi, ki, {ski,j,k
0
, ski,j,k
1
,
ρi,j,k}j∈[ℓ],k∈[λ]; si) for all i ∈[m].
4. Compute ri := PRF(ki, f) and use it to generate (˜Φi, {lab
i,j
0 ,
lab
i,j
1 }i∈[m],j∈[ℓ], {labi,j,k
0
, labi,j,k
1
}i∈[m],j∈[ℓ],k∈[λ]) ←Garble(1λ,
Φ2,i, ri) for all i ∈[m] where {lab
i,j
0 , lab
i,j
1 }i∈[m],j∈[ℓ] are the
input labels for the sender and {labi,j,k
0
, labi,j,k
1
}i∈[m],j∈[ℓ],k∈[λ]
are the input labels for the receiver.
5. Sample
ki,j,k
0
, ki,j,k
1
←
{0, 1}∗
and
generate
cti,j,k
b
:=
Enc(ski,j,k
b
, labi,j,k
b
; PRF(ki,j,k
b
, f)) for all b ∈{0, 1}, i ∈[m], j ∈
[ℓ] and k ∈[λ].
6. Send {,i
3 , ˜Φi}i∈[m] and {cti,j,k
0
, cti,j,k
1
, lab
i,j
yi,j}i∈[m],j∈[ℓ],k∈[λ] to
R.
Receiver:
1. Compute oti,j,k
3
←OT1,2
3 (oti,j,k
2
; ri,j,k) for all i ∈[m], j ∈[ℓ]
and k ∈[λ].

List Oblivious Transfer and Applications to Round-Optimal Coin Tossing
479
2. Compute ot3 ←OTλ,m
3
(ot2; r).
3. Send ot3 and {oti,j,k
3
}i∈[m],j∈[ℓ],k∈[λ] to S.
Figure 6.2: The output computation of the 2PC protocol Π2PC.
Output Computation.
Sender:
1. Verify that all the OTs are accepting, and reject if this is not
the case.
Receiver:
1. Compute {si}i∈K := OTλ,m
out (ot2; r)
2. Compute ski,j,k
xi,j,k
:=
OT1,2
out(oti,j,k
2
; ri,j,k) and labi,j,k
xi,j,k
:=
Dec(ski,j,k
xi,j,k, cti,j,k
xi,j,k) for all i ∈[m], j ∈[ℓ], k ∈[λ].
3. For all i ∈K:
(a) Compute (yi, ki, {sk′i,j,k
0
, sk′i,j,k
1
}j∈[ℓ]) from ,i
1 , ,i
3 and ran-
domness si.
(b) Compute r := PRF(ki, f).
(c) Compute
˜Φi, {
lab
i,j
0 , 
lab
i,j
1 }j∈[ℓ], {lab′i,j,k
0
, lab′i,j,k
1
}j∈[ℓ]
:=
Garble(1λ, Φ2,i; ri).
(d) Check if ˜Φi that is received in the third round is the same
as the one computed above.
(e) Check that lab
i,j
yi,j = 
lab
i,j
yi,j for all j ∈[ℓ].
(f) Check that ski,j,k
xi,j,k = sk′i,j,k
xi,j,k for all j ∈[ℓ], k ∈[λ]
(g) Compute labi,j,k
1−xi,j,k := Dec(sk′i,j,k
1−xi,j,k, cti,j,k
1−xi,j,k) for all j ∈
[ℓ], k ∈[λ].
(h) Check that labi,j,k
b
= lab′i,j,k
b
for all j ∈[ℓ], k ∈[λ] and
b ∈{0, 1}.
(i) Check that oti,j,k
2
= OT1,2
2 (oti,j,k
1
, (ski,j,k
0
, ski,j,k
1
); ρi,j,k) for
all j ∈[ℓ], k ∈[λ]
4. If any of the above checks fails, output ⊥.
5. For all i
∈
[m], compute zi
:=
Eval(˜Φi, {lab
i,j
yi,j}j∈[ℓ],
{labi,j,k
xi,j,k}j∈[ℓ],k∈[λ]).
6. Compute the output by running outΦ on {zi}i∈[m], the input
x and the random tape used for generating (x1, . . . , xm).
Theorem 6.1. Let XS be a high min-entropy random variable deﬁned by a prob-
ability distribution XS, the protocol Π2PC (Fig. 6.1) is 1-rewinding secure list-
simulatable against sometimes aborting adversaries with delayed function selec-
tion for NC1 circuits for the ideal functionality FXS (accordingly to Deﬁnition
3.2), that makes block box use of OT1,2, OTk,λ, ExtCom, PRF, SE, and GC.

480
M. Ciampi et al.
7
List Non-malleable OT
In this section, we present our list non-malleable k-out-of-m oblivious transfer
protocol.
7.1
Deﬁnition ℓ-Non-malleable k-Out-of-m Oblivious Transfer
In this section, we give the deﬁnition of list non-malleable k-out-of-m Oblivi-
ous Transfer. Roughly speaking, we consider an adversary (denoted by MIM)
that interacts with up to ℓsenders S1, . . . , Sℓon the left, and up to ℓreceivers
R1, . . . , Rℓon the right. The guarantee of non-malleability ensures that the
inputs that the adversary uses in the right sessions (as a sender) are unrelated
to the one used by S1, . . . , Sℓ. This is formalized by the existence of a simula-
tor S which interacts with MIM as senders in the left sessions and as honest
receivers in the right sessions. S having access to the list-simulatable ideal OT
functionality Flist
OT, is able to simulate S1, . . . , Sℓ. Speciﬁcally, Flist
OT will take as
input the inputs of the corrupted receiver, i.e. the set of indices ˜Kj (with j ∈[ℓ])
and samples d inputs uniformly at random from the input domain of the honest
parties x1
j,i, . . . , xd
j,i ←X for all i ∈˜Kj and j ∈[ℓ].
This deﬁnition is very close in spirit to the one described in [17], but adapted
to our list simulatability paradigm.
Deﬁnition 7.1 (ℓ-Non-Malleable k-out-of-m Oblivious Transfer). An ℓ-
non-malleable Oblivious Transfer protocol is a protocol between a sender S with
inputs {xi}i∈[m] from a the domain X and a receiver R with input K ⊂[m]
where |K| = k, that satisﬁes the following properties:
Correctness: For every i ∈[m], xi ∈{0, 1}λ and K ⊂[m] such that |K| =
k, outR⟨S({xi}i∈[m], R(K))⟩= {xi}i∈K
Receiver Security (under Parallel Composition with Fixed Roles): For
every PPT sender S∗and every pair K, K′ of k-sized subsets of [m], we require
ViewS∗⟨S∗, R(K)⟩≈c ViewS∗⟨S∗, R(K′)⟩. Additionally, we require that there
exists a PPT extractor S.Ext that on input any transcript τ and with black-
box access to any PPT sender S∗in the j’th session of τ (if any input is not
well-deﬁned, it outputs ⊥in its place).
List Non-Malleability: Consider any PPT adversary (denoted by MIM) that
interacts with up to ℓsenders S1, . . . , Sℓon the left, where for every j ∈[ℓ],
Sj has input {xi,j
∈
X}i∈[m], and up to ℓreceivers R1, . . . , Rℓon the
right, where for every j
∈
[ℓ], Rj has input Kj. We denote by ViewMIM
⟨{Sj({xi,j}i∈[m])}j∈[ℓ], {Rj(Kj)}j∈[ℓ]⟩the view of the MIM in this interac-
tion, and denote the i’th implicit input used by the MIM in the j’th right
session by x′
i,j. We denote by RealMIM⟨{Sj({xi,j}i∈[m])}j∈[ℓ], {Rj(Kj)}j∈[ℓ]⟩
the joint distribution of {(x′
i,j)}i∈[m],j∈[ℓ] and ViewMIM⟨{Sj({xi,j}i∈[m])}j∈[ℓ],
{Rj(Kj)}j∈[ℓ]⟩. Then, we require that there exists a two-step simulator,
(Sim1, Sim2) that outputs (st, trans(1), { ˜Kj}j∈[ℓ]) ←SimMIM
1
({Kj}j∈[ℓ]) and
IdealMIM({xk
i,j}i∈[m],j∈[ℓ], {Kj}j∈[ℓ]) ←Sim
MIM,Flist,X
OT
(·,·)
2
(st, { ˜Kj}j∈[ℓ]), with

List Oblivious Transfer and Applications to Round-Optimal Coin Tossing
481
k
∈
[d] and where trans(1) denotes the ﬁrst round messages in a tran-
script generated by the MIM in its interaction with Sim1, and st denotes the
state of the simulator Sim1. Furthermore, Flist,X
OT
denotes the list-simulatable
ideal OT functionality that takes as an input { ˜Kj}j∈[ℓ] and 1d and outputs
{xk
i,j}i∈[m],j∈[ℓ],k∈[d], where xk
i,j are sampled at random from X for all i ∈
[m], j ∈[ℓ], k ∈[d]. We require that the adversary’s “view” in the ideal world,
which is part of the distribution IdealMIM({xi,j}i∈[m],j∈[ℓ], {Kj}j∈[ℓ]) contains a
transcript that has trans(1) as the ﬁrst message, and that for all honest inputs
{xi,j}i∈[m],j∈[ℓ], {Kj}j∈[ℓ], To achieve list non-malleability, we require that:
RealMIM⟨{Sj({xk
i,j}i∈[m])}j∈[ℓ], {Rj(Kj)}j∈[ℓ]
≈c
IdealMIM({xk
i,j}i∈[m],j∈[ℓ],
{Kj}j∈[ℓ]), for a k ∈[d].
Our construction is similar to the one presented in [17], the crucial diﬀer-
ence is that we use our three-round two-party computation protocol Π, which
satisﬁes the notion of list simulatability against sometimes aborting, instead of
a simulation secure two-party computation protocol. To construct our 3-round
non-malleable OT protocol we make use of the following tools.
– A three-round list simulatable, against sometimes aborting adversaries, two-
party computation protocol Π according to Deﬁnition 3.2 for NC1 circuits
(constructed in Sect. 6). Π implements the function fNM−OT described in
Fig. 7.1, the corresponding ideal list functionality parametrized by the distri-
bution DNM−OT deﬁned over the sender’s inputs, i.e. the distribution induced
by the digital signature scheme, the non-interactive commitment scheme, the
non-malleable code, as well as the uniform distribution. More formally, this
distribution is deﬁned by the distributions derived from DS.Setup, 2 · λ · m
random values, λ · m codewords generatd by NM.Code as well as 2 · λ · m
commitments and decommitments generated by NICom.
– An information-theoretic m(λ)·ℓ(λ) non-malleable coding scheme/split-state
non-malleable code NM = (Code, Decode).
– A low-depth proof ldp = (Prove, Verify) for P.
– An existentially unforgeable signature scheme DS = (Setup, Sign, Verify).
– A non-interactive statistically binding commitment scheme Π, = (NICom,
NIDec).
We propose the formal description of our k-out-of-m NM-OT protocol in
Fig. 7.2 and refer the reader to the introductory section for an informal discussion
on how the protocol works.
Theorem 7.2. Let X be a high min-entropy random variable deﬁned by a prob-
ability distribution D, then the k-out-of-m OT NM-OT described in 7.2 satisﬁes
Deﬁnition 7.1 for the functionality Flist,X
OT
, against sometimes aborting adver-
saries. Moreover NM-OT makes black-box use of Π, Π,, NM and DS.

482
M. Ciampi et al.
Figure 7.1: Function fNM-OT parametrized with (c1, . . . , cλ)
fNM-OT.
S’s input: (x, ldp) with x = (vk, {(s′
L,i,j, s′
R,i,j), (Li,j, Ri,j, xj), (decL,i,j, sL,i,j),
(decR,i,j, sR,i,j)}i∈[λ],j∈[m]). R’s input: indices K and {ki}i∈[λ].
The function fNM−OT upon receiving the inputs deﬁned above does the
following.
1. Set x′ = (vk, {(s′
L,i,j, sL,i,j, s′
R,i,j, sR,i,j), (Li,j, Ri,j, xj)}i∈[λ],j∈[m]).
2. If LDP.Verify(x′, ldp) ̸= 1, output ⊥.
3. Otherwise set out = (vk, {xj}j∈K). Additionally, for every i ∈[λ], if
ci ⊕ki = 0, append {(decL,i,j, sL,i,j)}j∈[m] to out and if ci ⊕ki = 1,
append {(decR,i,j, sR,i,j)}j∈[m] to out.
4. Append {mj}j∈K and {s′
R,i,j, s′
L,i,j}i∈λ,j∈[m] to out.
5. Output out.
Figure 7.2: Our ℓ(λ) Non-Malleable k-out-of-m OT protocol.
Initialization: The sender S has inputs {xj}j∈[m] and the receiver R
uses as its input a set K ⊆[m] where |K| = k
Protocol: S and R interact in the following way:
1. S generates (vk, sk) ←DS.Setup(1λ) and does the following:
– For each i ∈[λ], j ∈[m], sample ri,j ←{0, 1}∗and compute
(Li,j, Ri,j) := NM.Code((vk∥xj); ri,j).
– For each i ∈[λ], j ∈[m]:
• Sample sL,i,j ←{0, 1}∗and compute ,L,i,j , decL,i,j running
NICom on input sL,i,j.
• Sample sR,i ←{0, 1}∗and compute ,R,i,j , decR,i,j running
NICom on input sR,i,j.
• Set s′
L,i,j = Li,j ⊕sL,i,j and s′
R,i,j = Ri,j ⊕sR,i,j.
– Set x′ = (vk, {(s′
L,i,j, sL,i,j, s′
R,i,j, sR,i,j), (Li,j, Ri,j, xj)}i∈[λ],j∈[m])
and
L = {(vk, {(s′
L,i,j, sL,i,j, s′
R,i,j, sR,i,j), (Li,j, Ri,j, xj)}i∈[λ],j∈[m]) :
∀i
∈
[λ], j
∈
[m], Li,j
=
s′
L,i,j ⊕sL,i,j, Ri,j
=
s′
R,i,j ⊕
sR,i,j, NM.Decode(Li,j, Ri,j) = (vk∥xj)}. Then compute ldp =
LDP.Prove(x′, L).
2. Both parties engage in a run of the two-party protocol Π where:
• R acts as the receiver using as its private input K and (k1, . . . , kλ),
and parametrizing the delayed function with (c1, . . . , cλ), where
ki, ci ←{0, 1} for all i ∈[λ].
• S
acts
as
the
sender
using
(x, ldp)
as
its
input
where
x
=
(vk, {(s′
L,i,j, s′
R,i,j), (Li,j, Ri,j, xj), (decL,i,j, sL,i,j), (decR,i,j,
sR,i,j)}i∈[λ],j∈[m]).

List Oblivious Transfer and Applications to Round-Optimal Coin Tossing
483
In addition, in the ﬁrst round, S sends {,L,i,j , ,R,i,j }i∈[λ],j∈[m] and
in the second round sends {s′
L,i,j, s′
R,i,j}i∈[λ],j∈[m]. Additionally, S
signs the messages generated from Π, denoted by (Π1, Π2, Π3). It
sets σi ←DS.Sign(sk, Πi) for all i ∈[3] and sends it to R.
3. R
parses
out
=
(vk, {(deci,j, si,j)}j∈[m], {xj}j∈K, {s′L,i,j,
s′R,i,j}i∈[λ],j∈[m]). It outputs {xj}j∈K if and only if the follow-
ing conditions hold
(a) DS.Verify(vk, Πi, σi) for all i ∈[3]
(b) For each i
∈
[λ] compute ci ⊕ki
=
γ1. If γi
=
0 then
{(deci,j, si,j)}j∈[m] (contained in out) are valid decommitment
information for {,L,i,j }i∈[λ],j∈[m], else {(deci,j, si,j)}j∈[m] are valid
decommitment information for {,R,i,j }i∈[λ],j∈[m].
(c) The values {s′
L,i,j, s′
R,i,j}i∈[λ],j∈[m] sent in the second round from
the sender are equal to the values s′R,i,j}i∈[λ],j∈[m]) received as
part of out.
Multiparty Simultaneous OT. The deﬁnition of list multiparty simultaneous
OT, which is an adaption of the deﬁnition of multiparty simultaneous OT in
the same way as the notion of non-malleable OT has been adapted, can be
found in the full version. The realization of list multiparty simultaneous OT is
straightforward and taken almost verbatim from [17]. The idea to realize the
watchlist protocol is to let each pair of parties interact in the execution tow
non-malleable OTs where in one of the executions one party acts as the sender
and in the other execution the other party acts as a sender. This allows each
party to get an OT correlation (both as a sender and as a receiver). We refer to
the full-version for a formal treatment.
8
Four-Round Multi-party Computation
In this section, we present our MPC protocol. This is essentially an instantiation
of the IPS compiler [18], following the approach of [17]. In a nutshell, the IPS
compiler works as follows: a client-server protocol Φ, with a security threshold of
1/3 is being executed to evaluate the function f that should be computed by the
MPC protocol, this protocol is usually termed the outer protocol. To emulate
the servers in this setting, additionally another semi-malicious MPC protocol,
the inner-protocol Πh, is executed in parallel to take over the role of the servers
in the client-server protocol Φ. Due to the fact that the executed inner protocol
is not maliciously secure, the overall protocol also does not achieve malicious
security. To achieve full malicious security, we apply a cut-and-choose protocol.
In more detail, we execute multiple instances of the inner protocol Πh and run
a cut-and-choose protocol over these instances, which prevents and adversary
from the malicious generation of messages. The cut-and-choose is realized using
a watchlist protocol as described in the previous section,
Now, we describe this construction more formally. It makes use of the follow-
ing building blocks.

484
M. Ciampi et al.
– A MAC scheme MAC.
– A list-simulatable secure Watchlist Protocol WL = (WL1, WL2, WL3) as real-
ized in Sect. 7 for the functionality Flist,X
OT
where X is the distribution induced
by the uniform distribution, as well as the distribution of the outer protocol
Φ introduced below. Here, we denote by wl(r) the transcript in the ﬁrst r
rounds of WL.
– The Inner Protocol Πh = (Πh,1, Πh,2, Πh,3). This protocol is semi-malicious
and equivocal secure. We highlight that also this security deﬁnition is param-
eterized using a distribution D from which the inputs of the (honest) parties
are sampled in the security game. Here, we denote by π(r) the transcript in
the ﬁrst r rounds of Πh. π(0) is set to be the null string. The full details of
this protocol can be found in the full version.
– The Outer Protocol Φ = (Φ1, Φ2), a 2-round, n-client, m-server MPC protocol
achieving privacy with knowledge of outputs against a malicious, adaptive
adversary corrupting up to n −1 clients and t = (m −1)/3 servers. We
also need the protocol to be equipped with a simulator that works in two
phases. In the ﬁrst phase, it simulates the client messages using the same
procedure the honest clients would use, using a default input. In the second
phase, it generates the messages of the honest servers and returns the shares
received by the corrupted servers from the honest clients. The full details of
this protocol can be found in the full version.
Figure 8.1: MPC
Initialization: Each party Pi uses xi as its input.
Round 1.
1. Choose a random MAC key ki ←{0, 1}∗and sets zi := (xi, ki).
2. Compute (φi→1
1
, . . . , φi→m
1
) ←Φ1(1λ, i, zi).
3. Sample a random subset KI ⊂[m] of size λ and set xi,j := Ki for
all j ∈[n] \ {i}.
4. Sample ri,h ←{0, 1}∗for all h ∈[m] and set yi,j := {ri,h, φi→h
1
}
for all j ∈[n] \ {i}.
5. Compute wli
1 ←WL1(1λ, i, {xi,j, yi,j}j∈[n]\{i}, wl(0)).
6. Broadcast wli
1.
Round 2.
1. Compute wli
2 ←WL2(1λ, i, {xi,j, yi,j}j∈[n]\{i}, wl(1)).
2. Compute πi
h,1 := Πh,1(1λ, i, φi→h
1
; ri,h) for all h ∈[m].
3. Broadcast wli
2, {πi
h,1}h∈[m].
Round 3.
1. Compute wli
3 ←WL3(1λ, i, {xi,j, yi,j}j∈[n]\{i}, wl(2)).
2. Compute πi
h,2 := Πh,2(1λ, i, φi→h
1
, πh(1); ri,h) for all h ∈[m].
3. Broadcast wli
3, {πi
h,2}h∈[m].
Round 4.
1. Run outWL on (i, {xi,j, yi,j}j∈[n]\{i}), the random tape and wl(4)
to obtain {rj,h, φj→h
1
}j∈[n]\{i},h∈Ki.

List Oblivious Transfer and Applications to Round-Optimal Coin Tossing
485
2. For all j ∈[n] \ {i} and h ∈Ki, check that:
• The PRG computations in φj→h
1
are correct.
• For all ℓ∈[2], whether πj
h,ℓ= Πh,ℓ(1λ, j, φj→h
1
, πh(ℓ−1); rj,h).
3. If any of the above checks fail, output ⊥.
4. For all h ∈[m], compute πi
h,3 := Πh,3(1λ, i, φi→h
1
, πh(2); ri,h).
5. Broadcast {πi
h,3}h∈[m].
Output Computation.
1. Compute φh
2 := outΠh(i, π(3)) for all h ∈[m].
2. Compute (y, σ1, . . . , σn) := outΦ({φh
2}h∈[m]).
3. Check if σi is a valid tag on y using the key ki. If the check is
successful output y, otherwise output ⊥.
Figure 8.2: Circuit C computed by Φ
On input (xi, ki) from party Pi, with a MAC key ki do the following:
1. Compute y = f(x1, . . . , xn)
2. Output (y, MAC(k1, y), . . . , MAC(kn, y)) to all Pi’s.
Figure 8.3: Circuit C′ computed by the inner-protocol Πh
The i’th instance of the inner-protocol Πi = (Πi,1, . . . , Πi,3, outΠi) imple-
ments the computation done by the i’th server in the outer protocol and
the watchlist protocol.
Theorem 8.1. Let wl be the watchlist protocol for the distribution X deﬁned
above that samples randomly from Φ1 and {0, 1}λ, let Πh be a secure inner-
protocol, Φ a secure outer protocol and MAC a secure MAC scheme, then the
protocol Π is secure against sometimes aborting adversaries.
We can now claim the following corollary.
Corollary 8.2. Let wl be the watchlist protocol for the distribution X deﬁned
above that samples randomly from Φ1 and {0, 1}λ, let Πh be a secure inner-
protocol, Φ a secure outer protocol and MAC a secure MAC scheme, then Π
realizes any input-less functionality with black-box use of the primitives against
any PPT adversaries.
To argue that our corollary holds, we observe the following. A malicious
adversary is able to perform two types of attacks: it can learn the inputs of
the honest parties and it can force wrong outputs on the honest parties. In
the case of input-less functionalities, there is nothing to learn about the honest
parties’ inputs. Hence, we need to make sure that the adversary cannot force an
incorrect output. If an adversary forces the honest parties to produce a wrong
output, then it must be that these honest parties have received an accepting

486
M. Ciampi et al.
transcript (i.e., no abort was triggered). Therefore, by Theorem 8.1 (and by
the deﬁnition of sometimes aborting security), there exists a simulator, which
directly results in the claim of Corollary 8.2. Note that this implication may
not hold if we assume security against non-aborting adversaries (i.e., adversaries
that abort with negligible probability only).
Acknowledgements. This work is supported in part by DARPA under Coopera-
tive Agreement HR0011-20-2-0025, the Algorand Centers of Excellence programme
managed by Algorand Foundation, NSF grants CNS-2246355, CCF-2220450 and CNS-
2001096, US-Israel BSF grant 2015782, Amazon Faculty Award, Cisco Research Award
and Sunday Group. Any views, opinions, ﬁndings, conclusions or recommendations
contained herein are those of the author(s) and should not be interpreted as neces-
sarily representing the oﬃcial policies, either expressed or implied, of DARPA, the
Department of Defense, the Algorand Foundation, or the U.S. Government. The U.S.
Government is authorized to reproduce and distribute reprints for governmental pur-
poses not withstanding any copyright annotation therein.
References
1. Aiello, B., Ishai, Y., Reingold, O.: Priced oblivious transfer: how to sell digital
goods. In: Pﬁtzmann, B. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2001. LNCS, vol. 2045, pp. 119–135.
Springer, Heidelberg (2001). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44987-6_8
2. Ananth, P., Choudhuri, A.R., Jain, A.: A new approach to round-optimal secure
multiparty computation. In: Katz, J., Shacham, H. (eds.) CRYPTO 2017, Part I.
LNCS, vol. 10401, pp. 468–499. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-319-63688-7_16
3. Badrinarayanan, S., Goyal, V., Jain, A., Kalai, Y.T., Khurana, D., Sahai, A.:
Promise zero knowledge and its applications to round optimal MPC. In: Shacham,
H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2018, Part II. LNCS, vol. 10992, pp. 459–487.
Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-96881-0_16
4. Beaver, D., Micali, S., Rogaway, P.: The round complexity of secure protocols
(extended abstract). In: 22nd Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing,
Baltimore, MD, USA, 14–16 May 1990, pp. 503–513. ACM Press (1990). https://
doi.org/10.1145/100216.100287
5. Brakerski, Z., Döttling, N.: Two-message statistically sender-private OT from LWE.
In: Beimel, A., Dziembowski, S. (eds.) TCC 2018, Part II. LNCS, vol. 11240, pp.
370–390. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-03810-6_14
6. Brakerski, Z., Halevi, S., Polychroniadou, A.: Four round secure computation with-
out setup. In: Kalai, Y., Reyzin, L. (eds.) TCC 2017, Part I. LNCS, vol. 10677, pp.
645–677. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-70500-2_22
7. Rai Choudhuri, A., Ciampi, M., Goyal, V., Jain, A., Ostrovsky, R.: Round optimal
secure multiparty computation from minimal assumptions. In: Pass, R., Pietrzak,
K. (eds.) TCC 2020, Part II. LNCS, vol. 12551, pp. 291–319. Springer, Cham
(2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-64378-2_11
8. Ciampi,
M.,
Ostrovsky,
R.,
Waldner,
H.,
Zikas,
V.:
Round-optimal
and
communication-eﬃcient multiparty computation. In: Dunkelman, O., Dziem-
bowski, S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2022, Part I. LNCS, vol. 13275, pp. 65–95.
Springer, Heidelberg (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-06944-4_3

List Oblivious Transfer and Applications to Round-Optimal Coin Tossing
487
9. Ciampi, M., Ravi, D., Siniscalchi, L., Waldner, H.: Round-optimal multi-party
computation with identiﬁable abort. In: Dunkelman, O., Dziembowski, S. (eds.)
EUROCRYPT 2022, Part I. LNCS, vol. 13275, pp. 335–364. Springer, Heidelberg
(2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-06944-4_12
10. Garg, S., Mukherjee, P., Pandey, O., Polychroniadou, A.: The exact round com-
plexity of secure computation. In: Fischlin, M., Coron, J.-S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT
2016, Part II. LNCS, vol. 9666, pp. 448–476. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-49896-5_16
11. Goldreich, O., Micali, S., Wigderson, A.: How to play any mental game or A
completeness theorem for protocols with honest majority. In: Aho, A. (ed.) 19th
Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, New York City, NY, USA,
25–27 May 1987, pp. 218–229. ACM Press (1987). https://doi.org/10.1145/28395.
28420
12. Goyal, V.: Constant round non-malleable protocols using one way functions. In:
Fortnow, L., Vadhan, S.P. (eds.) 43rd Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of
Computing, San Jose, CA, USA, 6–8 June 2011, pp. 695–704. ACM Press (2011).
https://doi.org/10.1145/1993636.1993729
13. Goyal, V., Richelson, S., Rosen, A., Vald, M.: An algebraic approach to non-
malleability. In: 55th Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science,
Philadelphia, PA, USA, 18–21 October 2014, pp. 41–50. IEEE Computer Society
Press (2014). https://doi.org/10.1109/FOCS.2014.13
14. Halevi, S., Hazay, C., Polychroniadou, A., Venkitasubramaniam, M.: Round-
optimal secure multi-party computation. In: Shacham, H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2018, Part II. LNCS, vol. 10992, pp. 488–520. Springer, Cham (2018).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-96881-0_17
15. Halevi, S., Hazay, C., Polychroniadou, A., Venkitasubramaniam, M.: Round-
optimal secure multi-party computation. J. Cryptol. 34(3), 1–63 (2021). https://
doi.org/10.1007/s00145-021-09382-3
16. Harnik, D., Kilian, J., Naor, M., Reingold, O., Rosen, A.: On robust combiners
for oblivious transfer and other primitives. In: Cramer, R. (ed.) EUROCRYPT
2005. LNCS, vol. 3494, pp. 96–113. Springer, Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.org/
10.1007/11426639_6
17. Ishai, Y., Khurana, D., Sahai, A., Srinivasan, A.: On the round complexity of
black-box secure MPC. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) CRYPTO 2021, Part II.
LNCS, vol. 12826, pp. 214–243. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-84245-1_8
18. Ishai, Y., Prabhakaran, M., Sahai, A.: Founding cryptography on oblivious transfer
– eﬃciently. In: Wagner, D. (ed.) CRYPTO 2008. LNCS, vol. 5157, pp. 572–591.
Springer, Heidelberg (2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-85174-5_32
19. Kalai, Y.T.: Smooth projective hashing and two-message oblivious transfer. In:
Cramer, R. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2005. LNCS, vol. 3494, pp. 78–95. Springer, Hei-
delberg (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/11426639_5
20. Katz, J., Ostrovsky, R.: Round-optimal secure two-party computation. In:
Franklin, M. (ed.) CRYPTO 2004. LNCS, vol. 3152, pp. 335–354. Springer, Hei-
delberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-28628-8_21
21. Katz, J., Ostrovsky, R., Smith, A.: Round eﬃciency of multi-party computation
with a dishonest majority. In: Biham, E. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2003. LNCS, vol.
2656, pp. 578–595. Springer, Heidelberg (2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-
39200-9_36

488
M. Ciampi et al.
22. Khurana, D., Ostrovsky, R., Srinivasan, A.: Round optimal black-box “commit-
and-prove”. In: Beimel, A., Dziembowski, S. (eds.) TCC 2018, Part I. LNCS, vol.
11239, pp. 286–313. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
03807-6_11
23. Kilian, J.: Founding cryptography on oblivious transfer. In: 20th Annual ACM
Symposium on Theory of Computing, Chicago, IL, USA, 2–4 May 1988, pp. 20–
31. ACM Press (1988). https://doi.org/10.1145/62212.62215
24. Naor, M., Pinkas, B.: Eﬃcient oblivious transfer protocols. In: Kosaraju, S.R. (ed.)
12th Annual ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms, Washington, DC,
USA, 7–9 January 2001, pp. 448–457. ACM-SIAM (2001)
25. Pass, R.: Bounded-concurrent secure multi-party computation with a dishonest
majority. In: Babai, L. (ed.) 36th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Comput-
ing, Chicago, IL, USA, 13–16 June 2004, pp. 232–241. ACM Press (2004). https://
doi.org/10.1145/1007352.1007393
26. Pass, R., Wee, H.: Constant-round non-malleable commitments from sub-
exponential one-way functions. In: Gilbert, H. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2010. LNCS,
vol. 6110, pp. 638–655. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-642-13190-5_32
27. Shankar, B., Srinathan, K., Rangan, C.P.: Alternative protocols for generalized
oblivious transfer. In: Rao, S., Chatterjee, M., Jayanti, P., Murthy, C.S.R., Saha,
S.K. (eds.) ICDCN 2008. LNCS, vol. 4904, pp. 304–309. Springer, Heidelberg
(2007). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-77444-0_31
28. Wee, H.: Black-box, round-eﬃcient secure computation via non-malleability ampli-
ﬁcation. In: 51st Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science, Las
Vegas, NV, USA, 23–26 October 2010, pp. 531–540. IEEE Computer Society Press
(2010). https://doi.org/10.1109/FOCS.2010.87
29. Yao, A.C.C.: How to generate and exchange secrets (extended abstract). In:
27th Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada, 27–29 October 1986, pp. 162–167. IEEE Computer Society Press (1986).
https://doi.org/10.1109/SFCS.1986.25

