Locally Veri’¼üable
Signature and Key Aggregation
Rishab Goyal
MIT
Vinod Vaikuntanathan
MITy
Abstract
Aggregate signatures (Boneh, Gentry, Lynn, Shacham, Eurocrypt 2003) enable compressing
a set of N signatures on N di’¼Ćerent messages into a short aggregate signature. This reduces the
space complexity of storing the signatures from linear in N to a ’¼üxed constant (that depends
only on the security parameter). However, verifying the aggregate signature requires access to
all N messages, resulting in the complexity of veri’¼ücation being at least Ōä”(N).
In this work, we introduce the notion of locally veri’¼üable aggregate signatures that enable
e’¼ācient veri’¼ücation: given a short aggregate signature Žā (corresponding to a set M of N
messages), the veri’¼üer can check whether a particular message m is in the set, in time inde-
pendent of N. Veri’¼ücation does not require knowledge of the entire set M. We demonstrate
many natural applications of locally veri’¼üable aggregate signature schemes: in the context of
certi’¼ücate transparency logs; in blockchains; and for redacting signatures, even when all the
original signatures are produced by a single user.
We provide two constructions of single-signer locally veri’¼üable aggregate signatures, the
’¼ürst based on the RSA assumption and the second on the bilinear Di’¼āe-Hellman inversion
assumption, both in the random oracle model.
As an additional contribution, we introduce the notion of compressing cryptographic keys
in identity-based encryption (IBE) schemes, show applications of this notion, and construct an
IBE scheme where the secret keys for N identities can be compressed into a single aggregate
key, which can then be used to decrypt ciphertexts sent to any of the N identities.
Email: goyal@utexas.edu. Research supported by grants listed under the second author.
yEmail: vinodv@mit.edu. Research supported in part by DARPA under Agreement No. HR00112020023, a grant
from the MIT-IBM Watson AI, a grant from Analog Devices and a Microsoft Trustworthy AI grant. Any opinions,
’¼ündings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not
necessarily re’¼éect the views of the United States Government or DARPA.

Contents
1
Introduction
1
1.1
Locally Veri’¼üable Aggregate Signatures: De’¼ünition and Applications . . . . . . . . .
1
1.2
Locally Veri’¼üable Aggregate Signatures: Our Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5
1.3
Compressing Cryptographic Keys . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5
1.4
Other Related Work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6
2
Technical Overview
7
3
Preliminaries
12
3.1
Pseudorandom Functions
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12
3.2
Computational Assumptions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12
3.2.1
RSA Assumption and ShamirŌĆÖs Trick . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12
3.2.2
(Bilinear) Di’¼āe-Hellman Inversion Assumption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
13
4
Aggregate Cryptosystems with Local Properties
14
4.1
Aggregate Signatures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
14
4.1.1
Locally Veri’¼üable Aggregate Signatures
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
16
4.2
Aggregate Identity-Based Encryption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
17
5
RSA-based Locally Veri’¼üable Aggregate Signatures
19
5.1
Deterministic Prime Sequence Enumeration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
19
5.1.1
Prime Sequence Enumerator via Pseudorandom Functions . . . . . . . . . . .
19
5.2
Construction
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
21
5.3
Correctness, Compactness, and More Properties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
22
5.4
Security . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
23
6
Pairing-based Locally Veri’¼üable Aggregate Signatures
26
6.1
Construction
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
27
6.2
Correctness, Compactness, and More Properties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
29
6.3
Security . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
30
7
Pairing-based Aggregate Identity-Based Encryption
35
7.1
Construction
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
35
7.2
Correctness and Compactness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
36
7.3
Security . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
37
A Locally Veri’¼üable Multi-Signer Aggregate Signature
44
A.1 Properties of (Aggregate) Signatures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
46
B Sampling via Random Oracles
47
i

1
Introduction
The notion of aggregate signatures, introduced by Boneh, Gentry, Lynn, and Shacham [BGLS03],
enables the compression of several signatures Žāi of messages mi with respect to public keys vki,
into a single, short signature bŽā which authenticates the entire tuple of messages with respect to the
tuple of public keys. While the original motivation for aggregate signatures was the compression
of certi’¼ücate chains and the aggregation of signatures in secure BGP, the notion has found a great
deal of practical interest recently in the context of blockchains [Gor18].
While the aggregate signatures are short, verifying them requires access to all the messages. In
many practical scenarios, as we describe below, the veri’¼üer is merely interested in checking if bŽā is
an aggregated signature of some set that contains a particular message m. It may be infeasible or
undesirable to download the entire list of messages, and perform a veri’¼ücation computation whose
runtime scales with the number of messages N. This leads us to the central question that motivates
this work: Can we construct locally veri’¼üable aggregate signatures?
Locality in access and computation is a central theme in computer science, in areas ranging
from coding theory [Yek12] to proof systems [Sud09] to sub-linear algorithms [Gol17]. Thus, the
question of local veri’¼üability is both practically motivated, and also conceptually very natural.
1.1
Locally Veri’¼üable Aggregate Signatures: De’¼ünition and Applications
Our ’¼ürst contribution is a de’¼ünition of the notion of locally veri’¼üable aggregate signatures, which
turns out to require some care.
A natural formalization asks for two algorithms: an aggregation algorithm Aggregate, that takes
a set of tuples {(mi, vki, Žāi)}N
i=1 and produces a short aggregate signature bŽā of size, say, poly(╬╗) bits
and a local veri’¼ücation algorithm LocalAggVerify, that takes the aggregate signature bŽā, a public key
vk, and a message m, and outputs accept or reject. It seems natural to require that LocalAggVerify
runs in time independent of N, and accepts (m, vk, bŽā) if and only if (m, vk) Ōłł{(mi, vki)}N
i=1.
It is not hard to see that this notion is impossible to achieve, even in the single-signer setting
where all signatures are produced w.r.t. a single public key vk, due to a simple incompressibility
argument. Indeed, such a pair of algorithms can be used to recover all the messages given just the
aggregate signature, violating incompressibility. In more detail, assume that the messages are of
the form (i, bi) where bi Ōłł{0, 1} is a bit. To recover all the bits bi given bŽā, one simply runs the
LocalAggVerify algorithm with both (i, 0) and (i, 1) for every i.
In this work, we de’¼üne the notion of locally veri’¼üable aggregate signatures, overcoming the above
incompressibility barrier. We focus on the single-signer setting, and show several applications of
our notion.
Our De’¼ünition.
To circumvent the incompressibility barrier, we include a hint generation algo-
rithm LocalOpen that computes a short hint to aid local veri’¼ücation. Formally, in addition to the
key generation, signing, and veri’¼ücation algorithms, a locally veri’¼üable aggregate signature scheme
consists of three additional algorithms. For the sake of concreteness, the reader should imagine
three types of parties: signers who run KeyGen and Sign, storage servers (or aggregators) who run
Aggregate and LocalOpen, and veri’¼üers who run Verify and LocalAggVerify.
1

Aggregate is the (single-signer) signature aggregation algorithm which takes as input a sequence
of pairs (mi, Žāi) under a public key vk and produces an aggregate signature bŽā;
LocalOpen is the hint generator (also called the opening algorithm) that takes as input the aggre-
gate signature bŽā and the set of messages m = {mi}N
i=1, and a target message m Ōłłm, and
produces a short hint h;
(crucially, LocalOpen does not have access to the original signatures Žāi as they have been
forgotten at this point.)
LocalAggVerify is the local veri’¼ücation algorithm that veri’¼ües the aggregate signature bŽā and the
short hint h for a message m.
(importantly, the run-time of LocalAggVerify is independent of N.)
The ’¼ürst thing to note is that our formalization circumvents the incompressibility barrier as local
veri’¼ücation uses a message-dependent hint, and the hint generation depends on the set of all
messages m (and not just the target message). Secondly, we will shortly describe how our de’¼ünition
’¼üts into several practical applications of aggregate signatures.
For security, we propose an enhanced unforgeability property which protects from both a ma-
licious aggregator and a malicious hint generator. It is de’¼üned against an adversary who obtains
signatures for a set m and tries to produce a ŌĆ£fakeŌĆØ aggregate signature and a ŌĆ£fakeŌĆØ hint that makes
the aggregate veri’¼üer accept a message m /Ōłłm. For more details, we refer the reader to Section 4.1.
How to use Locally Veri’¼üable Aggregate Signatures in Applications.
Local veri’¼üability
is an extremely desirable feature as it leads to many applications in certi’¼ücate transparency logs
and blockchains, generic implications to signature redactability, and provides a robust time-space
tradeo’¼Ćthat can smoothly interpolate between aggregate signatures and plain signatures.
Certificate Transparency Logs. Certi’¼ücate transparency (CT) [BLK13] is an internet secu-
rity standard that creates public logs which record all certi’¼ücates issued by certi’¼ücate authorities
(CAs). The log is audited periodically to identify mistakenly or maliciously issued certi’¼ücates.
A userŌĆÖs browser receives a certi’¼ücate Žā from a website, say on the message (domain-name,IP),
and checks whether the entry exists in the CT log before proceeding to accept the connection.
(This simpli’¼üed description is su’¼ācient for our purposes; however, for more details on how CT
logs work, we refer the reader to [CTg]).
Aggregate signatures can ease the burden of storage on the CT log. Without aggregate signatures,
the CT log has to store all the signatures (certi’¼ücates) explicitly. With aggregate signatures,
the CT log can store a short aggregate signature together with an arbitrary compressed data
structure that compactly stores the list of messages (namely, domain names and IP addresses).
However, even if the userŌĆÖs browser stores or downloads an aggregate signature, the only way to
verify whether a particular entry exists in the log is to download all entries. Locally veri’¼üable
aggregate signatures allow the CT log to compress the certi’¼ücates into a short aggregate signature
while allowing the user to verify the existence of an entry by downloading just a few additional
kilobytes (in the form of a short hint) and performing a fast computation (using the LocalAggVerify
2

algorithm).
Furthermore, our enhanced unforgeability property guarantees that this is secure
against even a malicious CT log who may try to convince the user that a message m Ōłłm when
it isnŌĆÖt.
We note that even single-signer locally veri’¼üable aggregate signatures are a very meaningful
solution in this scenario given that the certi’¼ücate authorities number in the hundreds while the
number of certi’¼ücates generated number in the billions. The hints need not be explicitly stored,
and can be computed on-the-’¼éy by the CT log enabling natural forms of space-time tradeo’¼Ćs and
caching mechanisms (for the hints) for frequently accessed websites. Jumping ahead, we note that
one of our constructions (in particular, the RSA-based construction) has the surprising additional
feature of being able to reconstruct the original signature of any particular message m Ōłłm given
only the aggregate signature and the set of messages m ŌĆö this could come in handy during the
auditing of the CT log.
Blockchains. Another application scenario arises in the context of blockchains where a user or
an organization wants to aggregate the signatures on the set of all transactions originating from
a single payer, and later wishes to quickly and with little communication convince a third party
(e.g.
an auditor) of the existence of a particular transaction.
Again, the above problem can
be elegantly solved by using locally veri’¼üable aggregate signatures as the user/organization can
compute the short hint to prove the existence of the appropriate transaction.
We note that local veri’¼ücation implicitly provides a useful privacy feature. The user/organization
can prove knowledge of a single transaction without revealing the remaining transactions. This
follows from the succinctness requirements, as neither the aggregate signature nor the hint grow
with the number of transactions; thus, the signature and the hint jointly cannot leak too much
information about the other transactions. In addition, some of our constructions satisfy properties
such as dynamic aggregation which could be very useful in this scenario.
Time-Space Tradeoffs from Local Verifiability. Consider a server that stores a collection
of N messages {mi}N
i=1 along with signatures {Žāi}N
i=1, and several possible clients who wish to
download single messages and check that they indeed belong to the collection. While this can be
solved by using vanilla signatures, the server must dedicate large space for storing all N signatures.
Traditional aggregate signatures can handle the server space issue, but they incur (huge) linear
runtime cost for each individual client. As summarized in Table 1, the run-time for individual
clients can be lowered to O(1) by using locally veri’¼üable aggregate signatures.
We can also obtain a smooth time-space tradeo’¼Ćthat interpolates between locally veri’¼üable ag-
gregate signatures and vanilla signatures. For example, the server could split the collection of N
messages into blocks of length L and aggregate each block of L signatures, reducing the server
run-time to O(L) at the cost of increasing the server storage to O(N/L). This mechanism can
be further generalized to obtain a three-way time-space tradeo’¼Ćthat interpolates between vanilla
signatures, aggregate signatures, and locally veri’¼üable aggregate signatures. In this hybrid mode
of local veri’¼ücation, the signer signs blocks of L2 messages by hashing the block ’¼ürst and then
signing it. The server stores N messages by splitting them into N/(L1L2) super-blocks, each of
which contains L1 blocks, where each block, in turn, contains L2 messages (as above). The server
aggregates the L1 (locally veri’¼üable aggregate) signatures in each super-block and stores them.
3

Type of Signatures
Server space
(for signatures)
Server
time
Per-client space
(for signatures)
Per-client
time
Vanilla Signatures
O(N)
O(1)
O(1)
O(1)
Aggregate Signatures
O(1)
O(1)
O(1)
O(N)
L.V. Aggregate
O(1)
O(N)
O(1)
O(1)
Hybrid (with L2 batch
and L1L2 block size)
O
 N
L1L2

O(L1)
O(1)
O(L2)
Table 1: Time-Space Tradeo’¼Ćs with Locally Veri’¼üable (L.V.) Aggregate Signatures.
The server thus stores N/L1L2 signatures. To access a message, the client retrieves an entire
block containing the message, spending O(L2) time. To answer the client query, the server runs
in time O(L1) to generate the hint corresponding to the hash of the block queried by the client.
In short, the new notion of local veri’¼ücation provides a robust time-space tradeo’¼Ćfor the parties
involved.
Given that most data in the real world is compressible, locally veri’¼üable aggregate signatures give
the server the ability to fully leverage compression and reduce the total storage (including the
messages) and communication to sublinear in N. This is possible neither with vanilla signatures
(where one cannot compress the signatures) nor with regular aggregate signatures (where a client
cannot avoid downloading all messages). Although the hint generation is expensive, it is done once
by the (potentially untrusted) server as opposed to imposing a heavy veri’¼ücation cost per client as
in regular aggregate signatures. Furthermore, the hints for the most frequently accessed messages
can be cached for better performance. In a nutshell, locally veri’¼üable aggregate signatures open
up a rich space of tradeo’¼Ćs in storage, communication and veri’¼ücation of signatures.
Redactable Signatures. Redactable signature schemes [JMSW02, SBZ01] allow a signature
holder to publicly censor parts of a signed document such that the corresponding signature Žā
can be e’¼āciently updated without the secret signing key, and the updated signature can still
be veri’¼üed given only the redacted document.
These signatures have many real-world appli-
cations in privacy-preserving authentication as they can be used to sanitize digital signatures.
(See [DPSS15, DKS16] for a detailed overview.)
Locally veri’¼üable aggregate signatures provide a fresh approach to redactability and sanitization.
Brie’¼éy, using a locally veri’¼üable aggregate signature, we can sign the large sensitive document
in three steps: ’¼ürst, split the document into small message blocks; second, sign the message
blocks individually, together with their index; and third, aggregate these individual signatures
and output the aggregated signature as the ’¼ünal signature for the full document. To verify the
full (unredacted) document, one could use the regular veri’¼ücation algorithm that takes the entire
document as input. For redaction, the redacting party can generate short hints for each of the
unredacted portions of the document, and include these as part of the redacted signature. Note
that the redacted signature can be veri’¼üed by running local veri’¼ücation. At a very informal level,
since the redacted signature is shorter than the total number of message blocks, this seems to
guarantee some form of privacy.
4

While this general outline is problematic for several reasons: ’¼ürst, the redacted signatures are long;
and secondly, the above argument does not guarantee true privacy, namely that the signature on
the redacted document does not reveal any information about the redacted messages. However,
it turns out that our RSA-based construction and a slight modi’¼ücation of our pairing-based
construction give a complete solution to the problem, ensuring privacy of the original (unredacted)
message, enabling multi-hop redaction as well as constant-size redacted signatures, improving on
the construction in [JMSW02]. We refer the reader to Section 2 for more details.
1.2
Locally Veri’¼üable Aggregate Signatures: Our Results
Our main result constructs a single-signer locally veri’¼üable aggregate signature scheme secure under
the strong RSA assumption [BP97].
Theorem 1.1 (Informal). Assuming strong RSA, there is a locally veri’¼üable aggregate signature
scheme. In the random oracle model, it is fully secure; and in the standard model, it is statically
secure.
Our second result shows a weaker scheme under the bilinear Di’¼āe-Hellman inversion (BDHI)
assumption [MSK02, BB04a, BB04b]. The scheme requires a long common reference string (CRS)
of size equal to the number of aggregated messages. The veri’¼üer, however, only needs access to a
’¼üxed constant size portion of the CRS and is, therefore, still e’¼ācient.
Theorem 1.2 (Informal). Under the BDHI assumption, there is a locally veri’¼üable aggregate
signature scheme in the long CRS model. With random oracles, the scheme is fully secure; and in
the standard model, it is statically secure.
Finally, we show an initial feasibility result for a multi-signer locally veri’¼üable aggregate sig-
natures using the machinery of succinct non-interactive arguments of knowledge (SNARKs). We
note that single-signer aggregate signature schemes, without locality, have several (folklore) in-
stantiations based on the RSA assumption, the SIS assumption, and so on. This is in contrast to
the multi-signer setting where bilinear maps seem to dominate. Our work generalizes single-signer
aggregate signatures in a di’¼Ćerent direction, requiring locality, and exposing a new, challenging,
and practically motivated facet of the problem.
1.3
Compressing Cryptographic Keys
As an independently interesting contribution, we introduce a novel generalization of signature
aggregation to the setting of compressing the keys in identity-based and, more generally, attribute-
based encryption schemes (IBE, ABE). This enables the decryption key holders to compress mul-
tiple keys into a short key such that the aggregated key can be used to decrypt all ciphertexts
that any of individual (unaggregated) decryption keys are authorized to decrypt. Since one of the
main motivations behind designing advanced encryption systems is to have the ability to generate
separate keys for di’¼Ćerent users, thus it might feel counterintuitive to study compression of keys.
However, there are two main reasons to study aggregation in encryption systems.
5

First, this immediately can be used to reduce storage space in many simple applications. For
example, consider the classical application of using IBE to delegate access over time. In particular,
there is a user who has an IBE master secret key msk, and generates temporary keys skdate for
other devices (such as mobile phones) that are more easily stolen. The messages encrypted are
tagged with di’¼Ćerent dates, so the temporary keys can decrypt only the corresponding ciphertexts.
Aggregatable IBE allows to compress any subset of these temporary keys into one short key that
can decrypt ciphertexts encrypted to any of underlying dates. While one could use heavyweight
tools (such as ABE) to solve this problem, our observation is that IBE constructions with such
great aggregation properties can lead to a simpler and relatively lightweight solution. This directly
leads to the second (and broader) reason for studying aggregatable encryption systems which is
that they can enable simpler solutions to problems that otherwise needed more advanced objects.
We also provide a simple construction for an aggregatable IBE scheme from the BDHI assumption.
Theorem 1.3 (Informal). Under the BDHI assumption, there is an aggregatable IBE scheme in
the random oracle model.
1.4
Other Related Work
The concept of aggregate signatures was ’¼ürst put forth by Boneh, Gentry, Lynn, and Shacham [BGLS03]
to allow a third party to compress an arbitrary group of signatures into a short aggregated sig-
nature that jointly authenticates all the compressed signatures.
Aggregate signatures are re-
lated to, but signi’¼ücantly di’¼Ćerent from, multisignatures [IN83, Oka88, OO99, MOR01, Bol03]
which were introduced in 1983 [IN83], but received a formal treatment much later by Ohta and
Okamoto [Oka88, OO99] and Micali, Ohta, and Reyzin [MOR01]. They di’¼Ćer in terms of func-
tionality and applications since in multisignatures, a set of users all sign the same message and
the result is a single signature; while aggregate signatures are used to compress a group of sig-
natures, where each signature might be signing a distinct message. In addition to the di’¼Ćering
functionalities, multisignatures can have the group of signers or veri’¼üers cooperate interactively,
while aggregate signatures are more commonly studied in non-interactive settings.
Variants of aggregate signatures have been studied in the sequential [LMRS04] and synchro-
nized [GR06] settings. In the sequential mode of aggregation, the signers are required to interact
either by signing in a sequential chain; while in the synchronized setting, the signing algorithm
takes as input a (time) period t, and the security of the scheme is conditioned on a signer signing
at most once for each period t.
Numerous works have constructed (single- and multi-signer) aggregate signatures from pair-
ing based assumptions [BGLS03, BGLS, Bol03, GR06, LOS+06, BNN07, BGOY07, MT07, RS09,
AGH10], factoring based assumptions [LMRS04, BN07, Nev08, BJ10, FLS12, LLY13a, LLY13b,
BGR14, BMP16, HW18], and multilinear maps (and obfuscation) [FHPS13, HSW13, HKW15].
Another concept, loosely related to the notion of single-signer aggregate signatures, is that of
batch veri’¼ücation which has been very well studied since the foundational work of Fiat [Fia89].
The main motivation behind batch veri’¼ücation of signatures (generated by a single signer) is to
improve the concrete performance of the veri’¼üer checking a large sequence of messages. Thus,
batch veri’¼ücation of signatures is not designed to produce a shorter aggregated signature which is
our main goal.
6

2
Technical Overview
In this technical overview, we describe our RSA-based construction of locally veri’¼üable aggregate
signature in detail (proving Theorem 1.1), and brie’¼éy describe our pairing-based construction which
uses similar high-level ideas but di’¼Ćerent algebraic tricks. At the end of the technical overview, we
also discuss a SNARK-based construction of multi-signer locally veri’¼üable aggregate signatures.
RSA-based Locally Veri’¼üable Aggregate Signature.
Our starting point is the classical RSA-
based single-signer1 aggregate signature scheme where the signature of a message m with respect
to an RSA public key (N, e) is Žā = H(m)d (mod N), where ed = 1 (mod ŽĢ(N)) and H is a hash
function modeled as a random oracle in the security analysis. Given L message-signature pairs
{(mi, Žāi)}L
i=1, the aggregate signature is simply their product bŽā = QL
i=1 Žāi (mod N). Veri’¼ücation
proceeds by checking that
bŽāe =
L
Y
i=1
H(mi)
(mod N).
Unfortunately, it is completely unclear how to ŌĆ£locallyŌĆØ verify a single message mi given bŽā and some
hint hi related to the message vector m. Concretely, deducing how to even de’¼üne the message-
dependent hint is unclear. One may attempt to de’¼üne the hint hi to be the product of all hash
values H(mj) for j ╠Ė= i, and let the local veri’¼üer check that bŽāe = hi ┬Ę H(mi). However, a malicious
hint generator can easily fool the veri’¼üer: the hint is adversarially generated and the veri’¼üer has
no mechanism to check that the hint is well-formed without recomputing it which, in turn, seems
to require the veri’¼üer to know all the underlying messages, in direct con’¼éict with the requirement
of local veri’¼ücation. In a nutshell, the accumulator-style aggregation and the presence of a random
oracle seems to make local veri’¼ücation challenging.
To avoid this issue, we look at other RSA-based signature schemes [GMR88, DN94, CD96,
GHR99, CS00, Fis03] for adding local veri’¼üability. While this seems like a plausible approach, it
quickly gets stuck at a much earlier point. Namely, for all these schemes, the notion of single-
signer aggregation has not even been studied (to the best of our knowledge). A closer inspection
shows that, unlike the classical RSA-based signature scheme, most of these schemes do not support
aggregation. A notable exception is the Gennaro, Halevi, and Rabin [GHR99] scheme which works
as follows. Suppose H is a collision-resistant function that maps messages into large (╬╗-bit) prime
numbers.
The signature of a message m is Žā = g1/H(m) (mod N) where g ŌłłZŌłŚ
N is random
and (N, g) is in the public key.
Letting emi denote H(mi) and Žāi = g1/emi (mod N) denote
the signature of mi, the aggregation algorithm can simply compute bŽā = Q
i Žāi (mod N) as the
aggregated signature. Regular (non-local) veri’¼ücation can be performed by the following equation:
(bŽā)
Q
i emi
?=
Y
i
g
Q
j╠Ė=i emj
(mod N).
1Incidentally, we mention that the problem of constructing a multi-signer aggregate signature scheme from RSA has
been a long-standing open problem, although constructions of relaxed variants such as sequential or synchronized
(multi-signer) aggregate signature schemes based on RSA exist [LMRS04, HW18].
7

A correctly generated aggregate signature passes the check because
(bŽā)
Q
i emi =
 Y
i
Žāi
!Q
i emi
=
Y
i
g
Q
j╠Ė=i emj
(mod N).
(1)
We now show that the aggregate signatures bŽā can also be locally veri’¼üed w.r.t a message mj Ōłłm
(the latter being the set of all messages whose signatures have been aggregated into bŽā) without
knowing m but given only a short veri’¼ücation hint that depends on m and bŽā. Our ’¼ürst idea is to
generate the following two whole numbers as the hint:
em\mj =
Y
i╠Ė=j
emi,
fj =
X
i╠Ė=j
Y
k/Ōłł{i,j}
emk.
Our key observation is the following equation (which is exactly the same as Equation 1 except it
uses a di’¼Ćerent exponent for bŽā)
(bŽā)em\mj = gfj ┬Ę gem\mj /emj
(mod N).
(2)
This can be translated into the following veri’¼ücation equation:

(bŽā)em\mj /gfj
emj
?= gem\mj
(mod N).
(3)
Since emj can be computed from just the target message mj, releasing em\mj and fj as the hint
enables local veri’¼ücation of the aggregate signature bŽā via the above equation. It can also be proven
secure in the presence of malicious hint generators as long as the local veri’¼ücation algorithm also
checks that the numbers em\mj and emj are co-prime (that is, gcd(em\mj, emj) = 1).)
At a ’¼ürst glance, the above scheme seems to solve the problem of locally veri’¼üable single-signer
aggregate signatures from RSA; however, unfortunately, this is not the case. The hints em\mj and
fj have to be computed modulo Žå(N), but the hint generator does not (and must not) know Žå(N).
The only way out seems to be to compute them over the integers which again does not work as
they could be large O(L)-bit numbers, which is decidedly not short. These together seem like an
unfortunate limitation to obtaining local veri’¼üability. Luckily, this conundrum can be resolved in
a rather simple, yet elegant, way using the surprising power of ShamirŌĆÖs trick [Sha84].
Our central observation is that the hint generator can completely re-compute the (unique)
signature of every message in the set, starting from just the aggregate signature bŽā. In more detail,
the hint generator ’¼ürst computes
zj := (bŽā)em\mj /gfj := gem\mj /emj
(mod N).
Note that em\mj and emj are co-prime, thus there exist e’¼ācently computable integers ╬▒ and ╬▓ such
that ╬▒ ┬Ę em\mj + ╬▓ ┬Ę emj = 1. The hint generator next re-computes the signature g1/emj of mj as
g1/emj = g(╬▒┬Ęem\mj +╬▓┬Ęemj )/emj = (gem\mj /emj )╬▒ ┬Ę g╬▓ = z╬▒
j ┬Ę g╬▓
(mod N).
It then outputs g1/emj as the hint, and the local veri’¼ücation algorithm simply checks it by running
the plain (non-aggregated) veri’¼ücation algorithm interpreting the hint as a signature on the message
8

mj. (In fact, the local veri’¼ücation algorithm is independent of the aggregated signature bŽā, and only
needs the hint for veri’¼ücation. A detailed discussion is provided in Section 5.2.)
This summarizes our RSA-based locally veri’¼üable aggregate signature scheme, and the ’¼ünal
remaining detail is to ’¼ügure out how the function H is selected. To that end, we present two
choices ŌĆö the ’¼ürst is to let H employ a prime sequence generator based on a random oracle,
which gives us a scheme that is fully secure in the random oracle model; and the second is to
employ a technique similar to Micali, Rabin, and Vadhan [MRV99] (who used a t-wise independent
hash function, but we use PRFs; see Section 5.1 for more details) to instantiate the scheme in the
standard model. We point out that we could prove our standard model instantiation to be statically
secure (in the sense that the adversary must query all messages before it sees the veri’¼ücation key).
We leave the problem of constructing a fully secure scheme without random oracles as an interesting
open problem.
In addition to the surprising (in our mind) property of allowing exact re-computation of in-
dividual signatures from aggregate signatures, our RSA-based scheme satis’¼ües several additional
properties such as support for multi-hop aggregation as well as unordered sequential aggregation.
We also point out that the aforementioned exact re-computation property of our aggregate signa-
tures is very useful for obtaining a redactable signature scheme which has constant-size redacted
as well as unredacted signatures.
In a nutshell, the redaction algorithm can ’¼ürst compute the
individual signatures of all message blocks whose signature it wants to release, and can aggregate
them again to create a shorter signature.
Pairing-based Locally Veri’¼üable Aggregation.
Our pairing-based signature scheme relies on
similar core ideas, but very di’¼Ćerent details due to di’¼Ćering algebraic structures.
Our starting point is to translate the above process of RSA-based signature generation to
bilinear maps as follows. Recall the signature of a message m is computed as Žā = g1/H(m), where
H is a collision-resistant function that maps messages into large prime numbers and the inverse in
the exponent, 1/H(m), is computed using the factorization of the RSA modulus. To port this over
to bilinear maps, we substitute H(m) with ╬▒+m, where ╬▒ is a secret exponent from the master key.
Basically, the signature is set as Žā = g1/(╬▒+m), where g is a random public source group generator.
The signature veri’¼ücation performs a bilinear pairing to check that e(Žā, g╬▒gm) = e(g, g), where g╬▒
is part of the public key as well.
Coincidentally, this is exactly the weakly secure short signature scheme of Boneh and Boyen
(BB) [BB04b, ┬¦4.3], and can be visualized as a bilinear analog of the RSA-based Gennaro-Halevi-
Rabin scheme. Unfortunately, the BB scheme is also not known to be aggregatable, and while there
exist pairing-based (multi-signer) aggregate signature schemes [BGLS03], they are algebraically
similar to the classical RSA-based schemes, thus do not appear to support local veri’¼üability.
Our ’¼ürst main observation is that the BB scheme can actually be shown to be a single-signer
aggregatable scheme.
Although the signature aggregation is not as simple as multiplying the
signatures (as in the RSA setting), we observe that, by LagrangeŌĆÖs inverse polynomial interpolation
technique, we can aggregate a sequence of signatures Žāi = g1/(╬▒+mi) into bŽā = g
Q
i 1/(╬▒+mi). Simply
put, LagrangeŌĆÖs inverse polynomial interpolation allows the following computation without the
9

knowledge of the secret exponent ╬▒:
L
Y
i=1
1
╬▒ + mi
=
╬│1
╬▒ + m1
+ ┬Ę ┬Ę ┬Ę +
╬│L
╬▒ + mL
,
where the coe’¼ācients ╬│i can be publicly computed given only the sequence of messages {mi}L
i=1.
Thus, the aggregate signature bŽā can be computed as
bŽā =
L
Y
i=1
Žā╬│i
i .
In a di’¼Ćerent context of attribute-based encryption (ABE), this idea was used by Delerabl├®e,
Paillier, and Pointcheval [DPP07, DP08], except that they employed NewtonŌĆÖs iterative algorithm
instead of LagrangeŌĆÖs technique. More details about aggregating the group elements is provided in
detail later in Section 6.
Note that while the above allows aggregation of signatures, for regular (non-local) veri’¼ücation,
the veri’¼üer requires higher degree monomials of the secret exponent ╬▒. Concretely, the aggregate
veri’¼üer symbolically evaluates the polynomial QL
i=1(X +mi) to simplify it as PL
i=0 ╬┤iXi, and using
bilinear maps it can verify the aggregate signature as e(bŽā, Q
i(g╬▒i)╬┤i) = e(g, g), but this needs the
monomials g╬▒i as part of the public key. This is precisely why our pairing-based scheme requires
a long CRS/public key.
Unlike the [BGLS03] aggregate signature scheme, we can show that this scheme is locally
veri’¼üable. Our main observation here is that the non-local veri’¼ücation algorithm works in two
phases. First, it pre-processes the public key, given only the set of messages, to compute Q
i(g╬▒i)╬┤i =
g
Q
i(╬▒+mi) in the source group; second, it uses the bilinear map to pair this with the aggregate
signature bŽā and compare with e(g, g). We note that the ’¼ürst step in the veri’¼ücation is ine’¼ācient,
but a hint generator can speed it up for any target message mj by generating the following two
group elements as part of the short hint:
h1 = g
Q
i╠Ė=j(╬▒+mi),
h2 = g╬▒ Q
i╠Ė=j(╬▒+mi) = h╬▒
1 .
Note that both h1 and h2 can also be publicly computed given only the public key, and set of
messages contained in the aggregated signature. (This follows from the same symbolic execution
of appropriate polynomials.)
And, given the hints h1, h2, a veri’¼üer can locally verify the aggregate signature as
e(bŽā, hmj
1 h2) = e(g, g).
However, the above veri’¼ücation check alone is insu’¼ācient as a malicious hint generator can very eas-
ily fool the veri’¼üer. To address malicious hint generators, we also include a simple well-formedness
check of the hint as follows:
e(g╬▒, h1) = e(g, h2).
Putting these ideas together, we construct the pairing-based locally veri’¼ücation single-signer ag-
gregate signature scheme in the long CRS setting. We prove this to be statically secure in the
10

standard model, and adaptively secure in the random oracle model by replacing ╬▒ + m terms with
╬▒ + H(m). For more details, see Section 6. We leave the problems of reducing the CRS size and
removing the random oracle an interesting open problems.
We also note that while the above construction needs a long CRS, it satis’¼ües a very interesting
property, namely that the hint generation algorithm is fully public, and does not even depend on
the aggregate signature. Such fully public hint generation will be useful in applications where the
hint generator is unaware of the underlying aggregate signature, or the user wants to generate the
hint even before the aggregate signature has been generated or made available.
Lastly, our aggregatable IBE scheme builds on the above ideas. For details, we refer the reader
to Section 7.
Multi-Signer Scheme from SNARKs.
In the ŌĆ£folkloreŌĆØ construction of aggregate signatures
from succinct non-interactive arguments of knowledge (SNARKs), the aggregation algorithm simply
proves, w.r.t. a sequence of veri’¼ücation key-message pairs {(vki, mi)}i, that it knows a sequence of
signatures (Žā1, . . . , ŽāN) such that Žāi is an accepting signature for (vki, mi). This results in short
(aggregate) signatures and fast veri’¼ücation, while also ensuring that from an accepting proof, the
extractor can extract an accepting signature for every veri’¼ücation key-message pair.
This outline can be extended in a simple way to give us a locally veri’¼üable aggregate signature.
To generate the short hint, the hint generator creates another SNARK proof, w.r.t. a target key-
message pair (vk, m), that proves knowledge of a sequence of key-message pairs {(vki, mi)}i and an
aggregate signature bŽā such that (vk, m) is one of the tuples in the sequence, and bŽā is an accepting
signature for that sequence of key-message pairs. Clearly, the hint generator has the witness (i.e.,
sequence of key-message pairs and an accepting aggregated signature) available, thus by correct-
ness and e’¼āciency of SNARKs we get that the resulting proof is short and e’¼āciently veri’¼üable.
The enhanced local unforgeability of the resulting construction follows from the extractability of
SNARKs and the unforgeability of the underlying (plain) aggregate signature scheme.
We note that the above sketch serves as a proof of concept of the feasibility of locally veri’¼üable
aggregate signatures in the multi-signer setting. However, a direct construction is more interesting
and desirable for several reasons.
First, conceptually, SNARKs seem too big of a hammer to
construct aggregate signatures. Secondly, in practice, SNARKs have a high concrete performance
overhead, while direct constructions based on number theory are much more e’¼ācient (this is
akin to why number-theoretic accumulators and plain aggregate signatures are used in practice
as opposed to Merkle trees and SNARK-based plain aggregate signatures). Finally, SNARKs su’¼Ćer
from impossibility results in the plain model [GW11], and are often constructed in the random
oracle model or from knowledge-type assumptions, while locally veri’¼üable aggregate signatures
can potentially be built from fully standard assumptions in the plain model. Our single-signer
constructions demonstrate this in the static security model; we believe that adaptive security
is achievable without random oracles, but leave it as a fascinating open problem. Yet another
fascinating open problem is to construct a multi-signer locally veri’¼üable aggregate signature scheme.
11

3
Preliminaries
Notation.
We will let PPT denote probabilistic polynomial-time. We denote the set of all positive
integers up to n as [n] := {1, . . . , n}. Also, we use [0, n] to denote the set of all non-negative integers
up to n, i.e. [0, n] := {0}Ōł¬[n]. Throughout this paper, unless speci’¼üed, all polynomials we consider
are positive polynomials. For any ’¼ünite set S, x ŌåÉS denotes a uniformly random element x from
the set S. Similarly, for any distribution D, x ŌåÉD denotes an element x drawn from distribution
D. The distribution Dn is used to represent a distribution over vectors of n components, where
each component is drawn independently from the distribution D.
3.1
Pseudorandom Functions
A pseudorandom function (PRF) consists a pair of algorithms Setup and Eval with the following
syntax:
Setup(1╬╗, 1n) ŌåÆK. The setup algorithm takes as input the security parameter ╬╗ and input length
parameter n, and outputs a PRF key K.
Eval(K, x) ŌåÆy. The evaluation algorithm, on input the PRF key K and string x Ōłł{0, 1}n, outputs
a bit string y Ōłł{0, 1}m. Here m = m(╬╗) denotes the output length of the PRF.
De’¼ünition 3.1 (Pseudorandomness). A PRF scheme PRF = (Setup, Eval) is said to be secure if for
every stateful PPT adversary A, there exists a negligible function negl(┬Ę) such that for all ╬╗, n ŌłłN,
the following holds:
Pr
’Ż«
’Ż░AEval(K,┬Ę)(rb) = b :
K ŌåÉSetup(1╬╗, 1n), b ŌåÉ{0, 1}
xŌłŚŌåÉAEval(K,┬Ę)(1╬╗, 1n)
r0 ŌåÉ{0, 1}m, r1 = Eval(K, xŌłŚ)
’Ż╣
’Ż╗Ōēż1
2 + negl(╬╗),
where A must not query the challenge input xŌłŚto the evaluation oracle Eval(K, ┬Ę).
3.2
Computational Assumptions
3.2.1
RSA Assumption and ShamirŌĆÖs Trick
Below we recall (one of the) standard versions of the RSA assumption [RSA78], RSA assumption
with large prime exponents [MRV99], as well as the strong RSA assumption [BP97].
Assumption 3.2 (RSA assumption). Let ╬╗ be the security parameter. Let the positive integer
N be the product of two ╬╗/2-bit, distinct odd primes p, q. Let e be a randomly chosen positive
integer less than and relatively prime to Žå(N) = (pŌłÆ1)(q ŌłÆ1). Given (N, e) and a random y ŌłłZŌłŚ
N,
it is hard to compute x such that xe ŌēĪy mod N.
Assumption 3.3 (Large Exponent RSA assumption). Let ╬╗ be the security parameter. Let the
positive integer N be the product of two ╬╗/2-bit, distinct odd primes p, q. Let e be a randomly
chosen (╬╗ + 1)-bit prime. Given (N, e) and a random y ŌłłZŌłŚ
N, it is hard to compute x such that
xe ŌēĪy mod N.
12

Assumption 3.4 (Strong RSA assumption). Let ╬╗ be the security parameter. Let the positive
integer N be the product of two ╬╗/2-bit, distinct odd primes p, q. Given N and a random y ŌłłZŌłŚ
N,
it is hard to compute (x, e) such that xe ŌēĪy mod N, where e > 1 is any positive integer.
We also make use of the following classical lemma due to Shamir whose proof is provided for
completeness.
Lemma 3.5 (ShamirŌĆÖs trick [Sha83]). Given x, y ŌłłZN together with a, b ŌłłZ such that xa =
yb (mod N) and gcd(a, b) = 1, there is an e’¼ācient algorithm for computing z ŌłłZN such that
za = y (mod N).
Proof. Let ╬▒, ╬▓ ŌłłZ be integers such that ╬▒a + ╬▓b = 1. Then, z = y╬▒x╬▓ is the desired number as
za = y╬▒ax╬▓a = y╬▒ay╬▓b = y╬▒a+╬▓b = y (mod N).
3.2.2
(Bilinear) Di’¼āe-Hellman Inversion Assumption
In this work, we will be using bilinear groups. Let Gen be a PPT algorithm that takes as input
a security parameter ╬╗ (in unary), and outputs a ╬╗-bit prime p, an e’¼ācient description of groups
G, GT of order p, generator g ŌłłG and an e’¼ācient non-degenerate bilinear mapping e : G├ŚG ŌåÆGT
(that is, e(g, g) ╠Ė= 1GT , and for all a, b ŌłłZp, e(ga, gb) = e(g, g)ab). Here we rely on the well studied
family of Di’¼āe-Hellman Inversion problems [MSK02, BB04a, BB04b].
DHI Assumption.
The q-DHI assumption states that no PPT adversary, given the sequence
(g, ga, ga2, . . . , gaq) can compute g
1
a . In this experiment, a is chosen uniformly at random from
ZŌłŚ
p. It is called a q-type assumption because the experiment is parameterized by the length of the
powers-in-exponent sequence given to the adversary. Here we are working in groups which have
e’¼ācient bilinear pairing operation e(┬Ę, ┬Ę).
Assumption 3.6 (q-DHI Assumption). The assumption is parameterized with an integer q ŌłłZ.
We say that the q-DHI assumption holds if for all PPT A, there exists a negligible function negl(┬Ę)
such that for all ╬╗ ŌłłN,
Pr
"
A(╬Ā, L) = g
1
a : ╬Ā = (p, G, GT , g, e(┬Ę, ┬Ę)) ŌåÉGen(1╬╗)
a ŌåÉZŌłŚ
p, L = (ga, ga2, . . . , gaq)
#
Ōēżnegl(╬╗)
BDHI Assumption.
In this work, we also consider the DHI assumption in the ŌĆ£target" group
as well, which is commonly referred to as the Bilinear Di’¼āe-Hellman Inversion assumption. The
di’¼Ćerence between the target and source version of the strong DH assumption is that in the target
group version, the adversary is said to win the game even if it computes 1
a only in the target group,
that is e(g, g)
1
a . Formally, we de’¼üne both its search and decision versions.
Assumption 3.7 (q-BDHI Assumption). The assumption is parameterized with an integer q ŌłłZ.
We say that the q-BDHI assumption holds if for all PPT A, there exists a negligible function negl(┬Ę)
such that for all ╬╗ ŌłłN,
Pr
"
A(╬Ā, L) = e(g, g)
1
a : ╬Ā = (p, G, GT , g, e(┬Ę, ┬Ę)) ŌåÉGen(1╬╗)
a ŌåÉZŌłŚ
p, L = (ga, ga2, . . . , gaq)
#
Ōēżnegl(╬╗)
13

Assumption 3.8 (Decision q-BDHI Assumption). The assumption is parameterized with an integer
q ŌłłZ. We say that the decision q-BDHI assumption holds if for all PPT A, there exists a negligible
function negl(┬Ę) such that for all ╬╗ ŌłłN,
Pr
’Ż«
’Ż»’Ż░A(╬Ā, L, Zb) = b :
╬Ā = (p, G, GT , g, e(┬Ę, ┬Ę)) ŌåÉGen(1╬╗)
a ŌåÉZŌłŚ
p, L = (ga, ga2, . . . , gaq)
b ŌåÉ{0, 1}, Z0 = e(g, g)
1
a , Z1 ŌåÉGT
’Ż╣
’Ż║’Ż╗Ōēżnegl(╬╗)
4
Aggregate Cryptosystems with Local Properties
In this section, we recall the notion of single-signer aggregate signatures, and introduce the con-
cept of local veri’¼ücation for aggregate signatures. Additionally, we also introduce the concept of
aggregate identity-based encryption. Later in Appendix A, we also extend our concept of locally
veri’¼üable aggregate signatures to the multi-signer setting.
4.1
Aggregate Signatures
The notion of aggregate signatures as introduced by Boneh, Gentry, Lynn and Shacham [BGLS03]
is simply a regular signature scheme that comes with two poly-time algorithms Aggregate and
AggVerify, where Aggregate is used to aggregate an arbitrary polynomial number of message-
signature pairs {(mi, Žāi)}i generated using veri’¼ücation keys {vki}i, into a shorter aggregate signa-
ture bŽā, and AggVerify can be used to verify such aggregate signatures with respect to the sequence
of messages (m1, . . . , mŌäō) and the veri’¼ücation keys (vk1, . . . , vkŌäō).
An aggregate signature scheme is said to be a single-signer aggregate signature scheme if the
aggregation algorithm requires all the veri’¼ücation keys {vki}i to be the same. Below we de’¼üne it
formally.
Syntax.
A single-signer aggregate signature scheme S for message space M consists of the fol-
lowing polynomial time algorithms:
Setup(1╬╗) ŌåÆ(vk, sk). The setup algorithm, on input the security parameter ╬╗, outputs a pair of
signing and veri’¼ücation keys (vk, sk).
Sign(sk, m) ŌåÆŽā. The signing algorithm takes as input a signing key sk and a message m ŌłłM, and
computes a signature Žā.
Verify(vk, m, Žā) ŌåÆ0/1. The veri’¼ücation algorithm takes as input a veri’¼ücation key vk, a message
m ŌłłM, and a signature Žā. It outputs a bit to signal whether the signature is valid or not.
Aggregate (vk, {(mi, Žāi)}i) ŌåÆbŽā/ŌŖź. The signature aggregation algorithm takes as input a veri’¼üca-
tion key vk, a sequence of tuples, each containing a message mi and signature Žāi, and it
outputs either an aggregated signature bŽā or a special abort symbol ŌŖź.
AggVerify (vk, {mi}i, bŽā) ŌåÆ0/1. The aggregate verify algorithm takes as input a veri’¼ücation key vk,
a sequence of messages mi, and it outputs a bit to signal whether the aggregated signature bŽā
is valid or not.
14

Correctness and Compactness.
An aggregate signature scheme is said to be correct and com-
pact if for all ╬╗, ŌäōŌłłN, every veri’¼ücation-signing key pair (vk, sk) ŌåÉSetup(1╬╗), messages mi for
i Ōłł[Ōäō], and every signature Žāi ŌåÉSign(sk, mi) for i Ōłł[Ōäō], the following holds:
Correctness of signing. For all i Ōłł[Ōäō], Verify(vk, mi, Žāi) = 1.
Correctness of aggregation. If bŽā = Aggregate (vk, {(mi, Žāi)}i), then
AggVerify (vk, {mi}i, bŽā) = 1.
Compactness of aggregation. |bŽā| Ōēżpoly(╬╗). That is, the size of an aggregated signature is a
’¼üxed polynomial in the security parameter ╬╗, independent of the number of aggregations Ōäō.
Security.
Next, we recall the security notion for regular signatures as well as for the setting of
aggregate signatures.
De’¼ünition 4.1 (Unforgeability). A signature scheme (Setup, Sign, Verify) is said to be a secure
signature scheme if for every admissible PPT attacker A, there exists a negligible function negl(┬Ę)
such that for all ╬╗ ŌłłN, the following holds
Pr

Verify(vk, mŌłŚ, ŽāŌłŚ) = 1 :
(vk, sk) ŌåÉSetup(1╬╗)
(mŌłŚ, ŽāŌłŚ) ŌåÉASign(sk,┬Ę)(1╬╗, vk)

Ōēżnegl(╬╗),
and A is admissible as long as it did not query mŌłŚto the Sign oracle.
De’¼ünition 4.2 (Static Unforgeability). We say the signature scheme is statically secure if the
adversary in the above game is con’¼üned to make all of its message queries {mi}iŌłł[q] and declare
the challenge message mŌłŚat the beginning of the game (de’¼üned in De’¼ünition 4.1) before it receives
the veri’¼ücation key vk.
De’¼ünition 4.3 (Aggregated Unforgeability). A single-signer aggregate signature scheme (Setup,
Sign, Verify, Aggregate, AggVerify) is said to be a secure aggregate signature scheme if for every
admissible PPT attacker A, there exists a negligible function negl(┬Ę) such that for all ╬╗ ŌłłN, the
following holds
Pr

AggVerify
 vk, {mŌłŚ
i }iŌłł[Ōäō], bŽāŌłŚ
= 1 :
(vk, sk) ŌåÉSetup(1╬╗)
 {mŌłŚ
i }iŌłł[Ōäō], bŽāŌłŚ
ŌåÉASign(sk,┬Ę)(1╬╗, vk)

Ōēżnegl(╬╗),
where A is admissible if there exists i Ōłł[Ōäō] such that mŌłŚ
i was not queried by A to the Sign(sk, ┬Ę)
oracle.
De’¼ünition 4.4 (Static Aggregated Unforgeability). We say the aggregate signature scheme is stati-
cally secure if the adversary in the above game is con’¼üned to make all of its message queries {mi}iŌłł[q]
and declare the challenge messages {mŌłŚ
i }iŌłł[Ōäō] at the beginning of the game (de’¼üned in De’¼ünition 4.3)
before it receives the veri’¼ücation key vk.
15

Our de’¼ünition of static security is identical to the weak-CMA security for plain signatures as
de’¼üned by Boneh and Boyen [BB04b]. In addition to the above security properties, there are a
number of other interesting properties such as unique signatures, multi-hop aggregation etc that
have been considered in the literature. We describe them in detail later in Appendix A.1 when
we de’¼üne aggregate signatures in the multi-signer setting. Our aggregate signature schemes satisfy
most of the properties as we discuss later.
4.1.1
Locally Veri’¼üable Aggregate Signatures
In this work, we introduce the notion of local openings for aggregate signatures that enable faster
local veri’¼ücation. As described above, in existing aggregate signatures the veri’¼ücation algorithm
for an aggregate signature takes as input the entire sequence of messages (m1, . . . , mŌäō) aggregated
inside signature bŽā.
Thus, the run-time of veri’¼ücation scales polynomially with the number of
messages Ōäō.
Aggregate signatures with local opening enable e’¼ācient veri’¼üability, where the local veri’¼ücation
algorithm takes as input only the message m that has to be veri’¼üed against the claimed aggregated
signature bŽā, instead of all Ōäōmessages. However, without any other modi’¼ücations to the syntax of
the aggregate signatures, the notion of local veri’¼üability is impossible to achieve (as discussed in
the introduction). In order to make the notion feasible, we introduce an auxiliary local opening
generator that generates some auxiliary information speci’¼üc to the message m being locally veri’¼üed,
and this algorithm does not require any of the input signatures {Žāi}i that were aggregated, but
the ’¼ünal aggregated signature bŽā. Below we de’¼üne the algorithms formally.
LocalOpen(bŽā, vk, {mi}iŌłł[Ōäō], j Ōłł[Ōäō]) ŌåÆauxj. The local opening algorithm takes as input an aggre-
gated signature bŽā, a veri’¼ücation key vk, a sequence of messages mi for i Ōłł[Ōäō], and an index
j Ōłł[Ōäō]. It outputs auxiliary information auxj corresponding to the message mi.
LocalAggVerify(bŽā, vk, m, aux) ŌåÆ0/1. The local aggregate veri’¼ücation algorithm takes as input an
aggregated signature bŽā, a veri’¼ücation key vk, a message m, and auxiliary information aux. It
outputs a bit to signal whether the aggregate signature bŽā contains a signature for message m
under veri’¼ücation key vk, or not.
Correctness and Compactness of Local Opening.
An aggregate signature scheme with local
openings is said to be correct and compact if for all ╬╗, ŌäōŌłłN, every veri’¼ücation-signing key pair
(vk, sk) ŌåÉSetup(1╬╗), messages mi for i Ōłł[Ōäō], and every signature Žāi ŌåÉSign(sk, mi) for i Ōłł[Ōäō], the
following holds:
Correctness of local opening. For all k Ōłł[Ōäō], we have
LocalAggVerify (bŽā, vk, mk, LocalOpen(bŽā, vk, {mi}i, k)) = 1.
Compactness of opening. |aux| Ōēżpoly(╬╗). That is, the size of the auxiliary opening infor-
mation is a ’¼üxed polynomial in the security parameter ╬╗, independent of the number of
aggregations Ōäō.
16

Security against adversarial openings.
Now we de’¼üne the security notion for aggregate sig-
natures with local openings.
De’¼ünition 4.5 (Aggregated Unforgeability with Adversarial Opening). A locally-veri’¼üable aggre-
gate signature scheme (Setup, Sign, Verify, Aggregate, AggVerify, LocalOpen, LocalAggVerify) is said
to be a secure aggregate signature scheme against adversarial openings if for every admissible PPT
attacker A, there exists a negligible function negl(┬Ę) such that for all ╬╗ ŌłłN, the following holds
Pr

LocalAggVerify(bŽāŌłŚ, vk, mŌłŚ, auxŌłŚ) = 1 :
(vk, sk) ŌåÉSetup(1╬╗)
(bŽāŌłŚ, auxŌłŚ, mŌłŚ) ŌåÉASign(sk,┬Ę)(1╬╗, vk)

Ōēżnegl(╬╗),
where A is admissible if mŌłŚwas not queried by A to the Sign(sk, ┬Ę) oracle.
De’¼ünition 4.6 (Static Aggregated Unforgeability with Adversarial Opening). We say the locally-
veri’¼üable aggregate signature scheme is statically secure against adversarial openings if the adver-
sary in the above game is con’¼üned to make all of its message queries {mi}iŌłł[q] and declare the
challenge message mŌłŚat the beginning of the game (de’¼üned in De’¼ünition 4.5) before it receives
the veri’¼ücation key vk.
Fully Public Openings for Aggregate Signatures.
We additionally consider the setting where
the local opening algorithm does not need an aggregate signature to provide an opening w.r.t., but
only the sequence of messages.
Remark 4.7 (Fully Public Openings). An aggregate signature scheme is said to have fully local
public openings if the algorithm LocalOpen has the following syntax ŌĆö LocalOpen(vk, {mi}iŌłł[Ōäō], j Ōłł
[Ōäō]) ŌåÆauxj. That is, LocalOpen is oblivious to the aggregated signature.
Remark 4.8 (Optimal Compactness and E’¼āciency). In our de’¼ünitions, we consider the size of
the aggregate signatures, auxiliary opening information, running time of the local veri’¼üer to be
independent of the number of aggregations. However, one could also consider schemes where the
compactness and e’¼āciency of the scheme grows poly-logarithmically with the number of aggre-
gations, as for most applications poly-logarithmically dependence can be asymptotically captured
within the polynomial dependence on the security parameter.
4.2
Aggregate Identity-Based Encryption
In this section, we introduce the concept of aggregate identity-based encryption systems. We start
by recalling the notion of identity-based encryption, and later describe the concept of secret key
aggregation.
IBE Syntax.
An Identity-Based Encryption (IBE) scheme IBE for set of identity spaces I =
{{0, 1}n}nŌłłN and message spaces M consists of four polynomial time algorithms (Setup, KeyGen,
Enc, Dec) with the following syntax:
Setup(1╬╗, 1n) ŌåÆ(mpk, msk). The setup algorithm takes as input the security parameter ╬╗ and iden-
tity length n. It outputs the public parameters mpk and the master secret key msk.
17

KeyGen(msk, id) ŌåÆskid. The key generation algorithm takes as input the master secret key msk
and an identity id Ōłł{0, 1}n. It outputs a secret key skid.
Enc(mpk, id, m) ŌåÆct. The encryption algorithm takes as input the public parameters mpk, a mes-
sage m ŌłłM, and an identity id Ōłł{0, 1}n. It outputs a ciphertext ct.
Dec(skid, ct) ŌåÆm/ŌŖź. The decryption algorithm takes as input a secret key skid and a ciphertext
ct. It outputs either a message m ŌłłM or a special symbol ŌŖź.
Correctness.
We say an IBE scheme is correct if for all ╬╗, n ŌłłN, (mpk, msk) ŌåÉSetup(1╬╗, 1n), id Ōłł
{0, 1}n, m ŌłłM, skid ŌåÉKeyGen(msk, id), and ct ŌåÉEnc(mpk, id, m), we have that Dec(skid, ct) = m.
Security.
Next, we recall the security notion for regular IBE systems.
De’¼ünition 4.9 (Secure IBE). We say an IBE scheme IBE = (Setup, KeyGen, Enc, Dec) is secure
if for any stateful PPT adversary A there exists a negligible function negl(┬Ę), such that for all
╬╗, n ŌłłN, the following holds
Pr
’Ż«
’Ż░AKeyGen(msk,┬Ę)(ct) = b :
(mpk, msk) ŌåÉSetup(1╬╗, 1n);
b ŌåÉ{0, 1}
(m0, m1, idŌłŚ) ŌåÉAKeyGen(msk,┬Ę)(1╬╗, 1n, mpk)
ct ŌåÉEnc(mpk, idŌłŚ, mb)
’Ż╣
’Ż╗Ōēż1
2 + negl(╬╗),
where all identities id queried by A satisfy id ╠Ė= idŌłŚ.
De’¼ünition 4.10 (Static Secure IBE). We say the IBE scheme is statically secure if the adversary
in the above game is con’¼üned to make all of its secret key queries {idi}iŌłł[q] and declare the challenge
identity idŌłŚat the beginning of the game (de’¼üned in De’¼ünition 4.9) before it receives the master
public key mpk.
Aggregating Secret Keys.
As mentioned previously, here we consider aggregation of secret keys
associated with di’¼Ćerent identities into a compact aggregated key. Syntactically, this corresponds
to introducing the following algorithms.
KeyAgg(sk1, . . . , skŌäō) ŌåÆbsk. The key generation algorithm takes as input a sequence of secret keys
{ski}i for i Ōłł[Ōäō] (for some Ōäō> 1). It outputs an aggregated key bsk.
AggDec( bsk, (id1, . . . , idŌäō), ct, j Ōłł[Ōäō]) ŌåÆm/ŌŖź. The aggregated decryption algorithm takes as input
an aggregated key bsk, a list of identities id1, . . . , idŌäō, a ciphertext ct, and index j Ōłł[Ōäō] which
denotes the identity used to compute ct. It outputs either a message m ŌłłM or a special
symbol ŌŖź.
Correctness and Compactness.
An aggregate IBE scheme is said to be correct and compact if
for all ╬╗, ŌäōŌłłN, master key pair (mpk, msk) ŌåÉSetup(1╬╗), identities idi for i Ōłł[Ōäō], and every secret
key ski ŌåÉKeyGen(msk, idi) for i Ōłł[Ōäō], the following holds:
18

Correctness of aggregated decryption. For all i Ōłł[Ōäō], every message m ŌåÉM, ciphertext
ct ŌåÉEnc(mpk, idi, m), we have that
AggDec (KeyAgg(sk1, . . . , skŌäō), (id1, . . . , idŌäō), ct, i) = m.
Compactness of aggregation. | bsk| Ōēżpoly(╬╗). That is, the size of an aggregated key is a ’¼üxed
polynomial in the security parameter ╬╗, independent of the number of aggregations Ōäō.
5
RSA-based Locally Veri’¼üable Aggregate Signatures
In this section, we provide a locally veri’¼üable single-signer aggregate signature scheme based on the
hardness of RSA. Our scheme satis’¼ües a number of interesting properties, and relies on an e’¼ācient
deterministic non-colliding prime sequence enumeration.
5.1
Deterministic Prime Sequence Enumeration
Here we are interested in an e’¼ācient injective mapping from the message space (M╬╗ = {0, 1}╬╗) to
the set of (╬╗ + 1)-bit prime numbers. Such injective mappings were constructed by Cachin, Micali,
and Stadler [CMS99] by relying on 2╬╗2-wise independent hash functions, (randomized) primality
testing [SS77, Rab80], and prime density theorems [DlVP97]. The idea is to enumerate over a
’¼üxed length (Ōēł2╬╗2) sequence of (╬╗ + 1)-bit numbers for each message in the message space, and
select the lexicographically ’¼ürst prime number in that sequence (where the sequence is decided by
the hash function). Since the hash function is pairwise independent, by relying on prime number
density theorems, one gets that with all but negligible probability, such prime numbers for each
message exist in the 2╬╗2 length sequence.
In this work, we rely on a similar prime sequence enumeration technique, but we slightly
adapt it as it leads to di’¼Ćerent security proofs of our aggregate signature construction. Concretely,
we rely on deterministic primality testing [AKS04] to avoid keeping random coins as part of the
setup2, and also replace the hash function with a PRF-based hash function in one instantiation
(which results in static security of our signature scheme), and with a Random Oracle [BR93] in the
second instantiation (which results in full security of our signature scheme). Additionally, we make
the sampling process to be expected polynomial time instead as we consider exponential length
sequences for the prime search. As we remark later in Remark B.2, the sampling time could be
worst-case polynomial time by relying on well-known prime gap conjectures.
5.1.1
Prime Sequence Enumerator via Pseudorandom Functions
Let PRF = (PRF.Setup, PRF.Eval) be a secure PRF that outputs ╬╗ bits of output. Below, we de-
scribe our prime sequence enumerator based on PRFs. A (fully secure) prime sequence enumerator
2We point out that we use deterministic primality testing only for the ease of exposition, and this is not necessary
as our scheme is secure even if we rely on e’¼ācient randomized primality testing. Such an approach was already
outlined in [MRV99] where the idea is to generate a sequence of random coins as part of the setup, and use those
random coins to run the randomized primality test deterministically on all those random coins. The proof relies on
the fact that, with all but negligible probability over the choice of random coins sampled during setup, randomized
primality test will fail on at least one random coins for a non-prime.
19

in the random oracle model (ROM) is described in Appendix B.
PrimeSeqPRF(1╬╗) ŌåÆsamp. It samples a PRF key K ŌåÉPRF.Setup(1╬╗, 12╬╗), and sets samp = K.
PrimeSampPRF(samp = K, m) ŌåÆem. It proceeds as follows:
1. Set count := 0, ’¼éag := false.
2. While ’¼éag = false:
(a) Let y := PRF.Eval(K, m || count) where m || count is interpreted as a 2╬╗ length bit
string.
(b) Run PrimalityTest to check if 2╬╗ + y is a prime. If it is a prime, set ’¼éag := true and
em := 2╬╗ + y. Otherwise, set count := count + 1.
Output em.
Theorem 5.1 (E’¼ācient and Statically Secure Enumeration via PRFs). If PRF is a secure pseu-
dorandom function as per De’¼ünition 3.1, then (PrimeSeqPRF, PrimeSampPRF) satis’¼ües the following
properties:
E’¼ācient Sampling. For every ╬╗ ŌłłN, m Ōłł{0, 1}╬╗, the prime sampling algorithm PrimeSampPRF
runs in expected polynomial time, where the probability is taken over the coins of setup
algorithm PrimeSeqPRF.
Statically Secure Non-Colliding Prime Enumeration. For any PPT adversary A, there ex-
ists a negligible function negl(┬Ę), such that for all ╬╗ ŌłłN, we have that
Pr
’Ż«
’Ż░Ōłāi ╠Ė= j Ōłł[Q] s.t. ei = ej Ōł¦mi ╠Ė= mj :
{mi}iŌłł[Q] ŌåÉA(1╬╗)
samp ŌåÉPrimeSeqPRF(1╬╗)
{ei = PrimeSampPRF(samp, mi)}i
’Ż╣
’Ż╗Ōēżnegl(╬╗).
Proof. The proof follows from [CMS99] which relied on 2╬╗2-wise independent hash function instead
of a PRF as we do above. Also, as in [MRV99], we force the enumerator to output truly (╬╗ + 1)-bit
primes by ’¼üxing the leading bit to be 1 (i.e., adding 2╬╗ to the randomly sampled number). Now by
relying on the pseudorandomness property of the underlying PRFs, we get the desired properties for
a sequence of polynomial but ŌĆ£a-priori unboundedŌĆØ number of messages. Since PRFs are poly-wise
independent functions by pseudorandomness for any arbitrary polynomial poly, thus the theorem
follows. Note that here the PRF key is being released as part of the public sampling parameters,
and despite that fact we are relying on PRF security for security of our samplers. Brie’¼éy, this is
due to the fact that an attacker in the static non-colliding prime enumeration is required to commit
all its messages at the beginning of the game, and the public sampling parameters (i.e., the PRF
key) is sampled after the messages are committed by the adversary. Therefore, we do not need to
supply the attacker the PRF key, and can simply check whether the non-colliding property failed
by querying the PRF oracle.
20

5.2
Construction
Below we provide our construction of single-signer aggregate signatures with ╬╗-bit messages.
Setup(1╬╗) ŌåÆ(vk, sk). The setup algorithm generates an RSA modulus N = pq, where p, q are
random primes of ╬╗/2 bits each. Next, it chooses a random element g ŌåÉZŌłŚ
N, and samples
the public parameters for prime sequence enumeration as samp ŌåÉPrimeSeq(1╬╗). It sets the
key pair as vk = (N, samp, g) and sk = (p, q, samp, g).
Sign(sk, m) ŌåÆŽā. It parses sk as above, and computes the prime number em = PrimeSamp(samp, m).
It computes the signature as geŌłÆ1
m (mod N) using p and q from the secret key and computing
eŌłÆ1
m (mod Žå(N)).
Verify(vk, m, Žā). It parses vk as above, and computes the prime number em = PrimeSamp(samp, m).
It checks whether Žāem (mod N) = g. If the check succeeds, then it outputs 1 to signal that
the signature is valid, otherwise it outputs 0.
Aggregate (vk, {(mi, Žāi)}i) ŌåÆbŽā/ŌŖź. The signature aggregation algorithm ’¼ürst veri’¼ües all the input
signatures Žāi, and outputs ŌŖźif any of these veri’¼ücations fail. Otherwise, it computes the
aggregated signature as
bŽā =
Y
i
Žāi (mod N).
AggVerify
 vk, {mi}iŌłł[Ōäō], bŽā

. The signature veri’¼ücation algorithm parses the veri’¼ücation key as above,
and computes the sequence of primes corresponding to the messages as emi = PrimeSamp(samp, mi)
for all i Ōłł[Ōäō] where Ōäōis the number of aggregated messages. It then checks whether the fol-
lowing is true or not:
bŽā
Q
i emi =
Y
i
g
Q
j╠Ė=i emj (mod N).
If the check succeeds, then it outputs 1 to signal that the aggregated signature is valid,
otherwise it outputs 0.
LocalOpen(bŽā, vk, {mi}iŌłł[Ōäō], j Ōłł[Ōäō]) ŌåÆauxj. It parses vk as above, and computes the sequence of
prime numbers corresponding to the messages as emi = PrimeSamp(samp, mi) for all i Ōłł[Ōäō].
It then computes the following terms:
em\mj =
Y
i╠Ė=j
emi,
fj =
X
i╠Ė=j
Y
k╠Ė={i,j}
emk.
Note that since vk contains only N and not Žå(N), thus the algorithm computes the above as
large integers without performing any modular reductions. It then computes the following:
x = bŽāem\mj /gfj (mod N).
And, it checks that gcd(em\mj, emj) = 1. If the check fails, it outputs ŌŖź, otherwise using
ShamirŌĆÖs trick (Lemma 3.5), it computes auxj as
auxj = Shamir(x, y = g, a = emj, b = em\mj).
21

LocalAggVerify(bŽā, vk, m, aux). The local veri’¼ücation algorithm simply runs the unaggregated veri’¼ü-
cation and outputs Verify(vk, m, Žā = aux). That is, it interprets aux as the original signature
on m, ignores bŽā, and veri’¼ües aux as a signature for m.
Basically, the aggregate signature scheme has the special property that the local opening
algorithm is able to recover the signature for message under consideration from the aggregated
signature, therefore the local opening for a message is simply its signature. Hence, the above
local veri’¼ücation algorithm only needs to check that the opening information aux is a valid
signature for m, and no extra checks are needed for the aggregated signature bŽā.3
In addition to the above algorithms, we want to point out that the scheme supports unordered
sequential signing as well as multi-hop aggregation. Below we describe our sequential signing and
veri’¼ücation algorithms:
SeqAggSign (sk, mŌĆ▓, {mi}i, bŽā) ŌåÆbŽāŌĆ▓. The sequential signing algorithm ’¼ürst veri’¼ües the input aggre-
gated signature bŽā, and outputs ŌŖźif the veri’¼ücation fails. Otherwise, it computes the prime emŌĆ▓
as emŌĆ▓ = PrimeSamp(samp, mŌĆ▓), and computes the new aggregated signature as bŽāeŌłÆ1
mŌĆ▓ (mod N)
since it knows Žå(N).
SeqAggVerify
 vk, {mi}iŌłł[Ōäō], bŽā

. The sequential aggregated veri’¼ücation algorithm parses the veri’¼ü-
cation key as above, and computes the sequence of primes corresponding to the messages as
emi = PrimeSamp(samp, mi) for all i Ōłł[Ōäō] where Ōäōis the number of aggregated messages. It
then checks whether the following is true or not:
bŽā
Q
i emi = g (mod N).
If the check succeeds, then it outputs 1 to signal that the aggregated signature is valid,
otherwise it outputs 0.
5.3
Correctness, Compactness, and More Properties
Correctness of signing.
This follows directly from the fact that PrimeSamp is a deterministic
prime number sampler, and that

geŌłÆ1
m
em = g (mod N) for every m and em = PrimeSamp(samp, m).
Correctness of Aggregation.
Consider any sequence of messages m1, . . . , mŌäō, and correspond-
ing signatures Žāi = geŌłÆ1
mi for i Ōłł[Ōäō] where emi = PrimeSamp(samp, mi). We know that aggregating
these signatures is done as bŽā = Q
i Žāi (mod N). And, the aggregated veri’¼ücation checks the follow-
ing:
bŽā
Q
i emi =
Y
i
g
Q
j╠Ė=i emj (mod N).
3We point out that this does not contradict our unforgeability property with adversarial openings. Since, irrespective
of whether the adversary is maliciously aggregating signature or generating hints in a malicious way, the adversary
is never allowed to make a sign query for the message associated with a forged signature. While it seems like since
local veri’¼üer is independent of the aggregate signature bŽā, thus a veri’¼üer might supply any arbitrary string and still
pass local veri’¼ücation. The point is in order for the local veri’¼ücation to accept, it must be provided with a valid
signature (as a hint), thus an attacker can not forge by supplying only malformed aggregated signatures bŽā.
22

Now to verify that the above check succeeds for honestly computed and aggregated signatures, let
us simplify the left side term bŽā
Q
i emi.
bŽā
Q
i emi =
’Ż½
’ŻŁY
j
Žāj
’ŻČ
’ŻĖ
Q
i emi
=
’Ż½
’ŻŁY
j
geŌłÆ1
mj
’ŻČ
’ŻĖ
Q
i emi
.
Now since we have that

geŌłÆ1
mj
Q
i emi = g
Q
j╠Ė=i emj (mod N), the correctness of aggregated veri’¼üca-
tion follows.
Compactness of Aggregation.
The size of an aggregated signature is same as that of an un-
aggregated signature, which simply is a number between 0 and N.
Unique Signatues.
Note that the above signature scheme is a unique signature scheme. This
follows from the fact that the prime number enumeration samples (╬╗ + 1)-bit primes, and since all
factors of Žå(N) are primes less than ╬╗/2-bits, thus eŌłÆ1
m (mod Žå(N)) is uniquely and well de’¼üned.
Thus, the inversion operation geŌłÆ1
m (mod N) is an injective mapping.
Multi-Hop, Unordered and Interleavable Aggregation.
We would like to point out that the
above construction is a multi-hop aggregate signature scheme as well as the sequential signing and
non-sequential aggregation can be arbitrarily interleaved. The multi-hop property follows directly
from inspection since the aggregation algorithm is an unordered product of the corresponding
signatures. And, since the product operation is independent of the sequence of multiplication, thus
the aggregated veri’¼ücation does not depend on the order of aggregation, but only the needs the
unordered sequence of aggregated messages. Lastly, we could also interleave the sequential and
non-sequential signature aggregation algorithm, and the corresponding veri’¼ücation would need to
be appropriately modi’¼üed and altered.
5.4
Security
Static (Aggregated) Unforgeability.
We show that if we instantiate the prime sequence enu-
meration based on PRFs in our above aggregate signature construction, then the resulting scheme
satis’¼ües static unforgeability. Formally, we prove the following.
Theorem 5.2 (Static Unforgeability). If the Strong RSA assumption (Assumption 3.4) holds, and
(PrimeSeq, PrimeSamp) is instantiated based on secure PRFs (as described in Section 5.1), then
the aggregate signature scheme described above satis’¼ües static unforgeability, static aggregated
unforgeability, and static aggregated unforgeability with adversarial openings (De’¼ünitions 4.2, 4.4
and 4.6).
Proof. We would like to point out that if the scheme satis’¼ües aggregated unforgeability, then it
also satis’¼ües regular unforgeability. Below we ’¼ürst prove static aggregated unforgeability for our
signature scheme.
23

Aggregated unforgeability.
Suppose there exists a PPT adversary A that breaks aggregated
unforgeability with non-negligible probability ŽĄ. Then we construct a PPT adversary B that breaks
the strong RSA assumption with ŽĄŌłÆnegl probability for some negligible function negl. We describe
reduction algorithm B below.
The strong RSA challenger samples an RSA modulus N and a random element h ŌłłZŌłŚ
N, and
sends (N, h) to B. Since we are proving only static security, thus the adversary A also submits
all its signature queries {mi}iŌłł[Q] and the sequence of challenge messages (mŌłŚ
1, . . . , mŌłŚ
Ōäō) at the
beginning. Also, since A is an admissible adversary, thus ŌäōŌēź1 and there exists an index jŌłŚsuch
that mŌłŚ
jŌłŚ/Ōłł{mi}iŌłł[Q]. (Here Ōäō= 1 corresponds to regular unforgeability, whereas Ōäō> 1 corresponds
to aggregated unforgeability.)
The reduction B then samples the public parameters for the PRF-based prime sequence enu-
meration as samp ŌåÉPrimeSeqPRF(1╬╗), and it computes the primes associated with all the above
messages as emi = PrimeSampPRF(samp, mi) for all i Ōłł[Q] and emŌłŚ
i = PrimeSampPRF(samp, mŌłŚ
i )
for all i Ōłł[Ōäō]. It checks that there does not exist two distinct messages m ╠Ė= mŌĆ▓ Ōłł{mi}i Ōł¬{mŌłŚ
i }i
such that em = eŌĆ▓
m. In other words, it checks that the sequence of primes are non-colliding. If the
check fails (i.e., there is a collision), then B aborts. Otherwise, B sets g = h
Q
iŌłł[Q] emi (mod N),
and sets the veri’¼ücation key vk as vk = (N, samp, g).
Here jŌłŚis the special index such that
mŌłŚ
jŌłŚ/Ōłł{mi}iŌłł[Q]. It also computes the signatures corresponding to each queried message mj as
Žāj = h
Q
iŌłł[Q]\{j} emi (mod N) for j Ōłł[Q]. B then sends vk and {Žāi}i to the adversary A. A then
sends it forged signature bŽā (which corresponds to an aggregated signature for the sequence of chal-
lenge messages mŌłŚ
1, . . . , mŌłŚ
Ōäō). B then checks if bŽā is a valid accepting signature. It aborts if it is an
invalid signature, otherwise it computes the following
z = Shamir
’Ż½
’ŻŁx = bŽā
Q
jŌłł[Ōäō]\{jŌłŚ} emŌłŚ
j , y = h, a = emŌłŚ
jŌłŚ, b =
Y
iŌłł[Q]
emi
X
jŌłł[Ōäō]
Y
k╠Ė=j
emŌłŚ
k
’ŻČ
’ŻĖ.
(4)
Finally, B outputs (z, emŌłŚ
jŌłŚ) as its strong RSA solution to (N, h).
We claim that if A wins with probability ŽĄ, then B wins with probability ŽĄŌłÆnegl. First, we claim
that if A is an admissible adversary, then B aborts with at most negligible probability. This follows
from the static non-colliding property of the PRF-based prime sequence enumeration Theorem 5.1.
Next, we argue that z
emŌłŚ
jŌłŚ= h (mod N) whenever bŽā is an accepting signature for (mŌłŚ
1, . . . , mŌłŚ
Ōäō)
and A is admissible adversary. Note that if A is an admissible adversary, then jŌłŚas de’¼üned above
exists, and we have that
bŽā
Q
jŌłł[Ōäō] emŌłŚ
j =
Y
jŌłł[Ōäō]
g
Q
k╠Ė=j emŌłŚ
k (mod N).
Substituting g in the right side, we get
bŽā
Q
jŌłł[Ōäō] emŌłŚ
j =
Y
jŌłł[Ōäō]
y
Q
iŌłł[Q] emi
Q
k╠Ė=j emŌłŚ
k (mod N).
Rewriting both sides in the above equation gives us

bŽā
Q
jŌłł[Ōäō]\{jŌłŚ} emŌłŚ
j
emŌłŚ
jŌłŚ= y
P
jŌłł[Ōäō]
Q
iŌłł[Q] emi
Q
k╠Ė=j emŌłŚ
k (mod N).
24

That is, if bŽā is an accepting signature, then the above equation gives that xa = yb. Now by ShamirŌĆÖs
Lemma (Lemma 3.5), we get that z
emŌłŚ
jŌłŚ= h (mod N) as long as gcd(a, b) = 1. Here x, y, a, b, z are
as de’¼üned in Eq. (4).
Thus, to complete the proof, we simply need to show that gcd(a, b) = 1 where a = emŌłŚ
jŌłŚ, b =
Q
iŌłł[Q] emi
P
jŌłł[Ōäō]
Q
k╠Ė=j emŌłŚ
k.
First, note that a is a prime and a < b, thus either we will have
gcd(a, b) = 1 or gcd(a, b) = a. Thus, to prove that gcd(a, b) = 1, it is su’¼ācient to show that
b mod a ╠Ė= 0. Let us now show this precise statement.
b mod a =
Y
iŌłł[Q]
emi
X
jŌłł[Ōäō]
Y
k╠Ė=j
emŌłŚ
k mod a
=
Y
iŌłł[Q]
emi
’Ż½
’ŻŁY
k╠Ė=jŌłŚ
emŌłŚ
k + emŌłŚ
jŌłŚ
X
jŌłł[Ōäō]\{jŌłŚ}
Y
k╠Ė=j,jŌłŚ
emŌłŚ
k
’ŻČ
’ŻĖmod a
=
Y
iŌłł[Q]
emi
’Ż½
’ŻŁY
k╠Ė=jŌłŚ
emŌłŚ
k + a
X
jŌłł[Ōäō]\{jŌłŚ}
Y
k╠Ė=j,jŌłŚ
emŌłŚ
k
’ŻČ
’ŻĖmod a
=
Y
iŌłł[Q]
emi
’Ż½
’ŻŁY
k╠Ė=jŌłŚ
emŌłŚ
k
’ŻČ
’ŻĖmod a
╠Ė= 0
The last inequality follows from the fact that emi and emŌłŚ
k are non-colliding sequence of primes for
distinct messages. This concludes the proof of static aggregated unforgeability.
Aggregated unforgeability with adversarial openings.
Next, we show that our signature
scheme also satis’¼ües aggregated unforgeability with adversarial openings. This mostly follows from
the crucial observation that the local opening of an aggregated signature in our above construction
is simply the original (unaggregated) signature for the corresponding message, and since the above
signature scheme is a unique signature scheme, thus a pair of accepting aggregated signature bŽā
and auxiliary opening information aux for a message m simply contains the unique signature for m
which will be aux. Thus, the proof of aggregated unforgeability with adversarial openings follows
directly.
Full (Aggregated) Unforgeability in ROM.
Next, we show that if we instantiate the prime
sequence enumeration in the ROM, then the above aggregate signature construction satis’¼ües full
unforgeability. Formally, we prove the following.
Theorem 5.3 (Full Unforgeability). If the RSA assumption with large exponents (Assumption 3.3)
holds, and (PrimeSeq, PrimeSamp) is instantiated in the ROM (as described in Section 5.1), then the
aggregate signature scheme described above satis’¼ües (full) unforgeability, aggregated unforgeability,
and aggregated unforgeability with adversarial openings (De’¼ünitions 4.1, 4.3 and 4.5).
Proof. We would like to point out that if the scheme satis’¼ües aggregated unforgeability, then it
also satis’¼ües regular unforgeability. Below we ’¼ürst prove the full aggregated unforgeability for our
signature scheme.
25

Aggregated unforgeability.
Suppose there exists a PPT adversary A that breaks full/adaptive
aggregated unforgeability with non-negligible probability ŽĄ. Then we construct a PPT adversary
B that breaks the RSA assumption with ŽĄ/QRO ŌłÆnegl probability for some negligible function
negl, where QRO is the number of queries A makes to the random oracle.4 We describe reduction
algorithm B below.
The RSA challenger samples an RSA modulus N, a large (╬╗+1)-bit prime e, a random element
h ŌłłZŌłŚ
N, and sends (N, e, h) to B. The reduction algorithm B is constructed analogous to that
in the proof of Theorem 5.2, except now B uses the power of programmability. B guesses the
index of the challenge message mŌłŚ
jŌłŚamongst all the RO queries, and programs the prime associated
with it emŌłŚ
jŌłŚas the RSA challenge prime e. It also samples the remaining primes for all queried
messages at the beginning of the game, and programs them for each queried message at the time
the message is ’¼ürst queried. The entire reduction algorithm is de’¼üned as before, and the analysis
remains identical except the reduction algorithm also aborts if guesses the index of the challenge
message mŌłŚ
jŌłŚincorrectly. Since BŌĆÖs guess is correct with probability at least 1/QRO, thus BŌĆÖs ’¼ünal
advantage will be ŽĄ/QRO ŌłÆnegl. This concludes the proof.
Aggregated unforgeability with adversarial openings.
As before, the proof of adaptive
aggregated unforgeability with adversarial openings follows from the unique signature property
and the adaptive (unaggregated) unforgeability of the signature scheme.
6
Pairing-based Locally Veri’¼üable Aggregate Signatures
In this section, we provide a locally veri’¼üable single-signer aggregate signature scheme with fully
public local openings based on the hardness of Di’¼āe-Hellman Inversion problem.
Our scheme
satis’¼ües a number of interesting properties that we discuss later, however it supports only bounded
single-hop aggregation.
Injective Message Hashing.
Similar to our RSA based construction, we are interested in an
injective mapping from the message space (M╬╗ = {0, 1}╬╗) to the prime ’¼üeld Zp for p > 2╬╗. We
consider two simple such mappings (HGen, H) that lead to static and full adaptive security for our
’¼ünal construction respectively.
Identity Map. The hash setup HGenI is simply the empty algorithm that outputs hk = ŽĄ, and
HI(ŽĄ, m) = m where output m is interpreted as a ’¼üeld element of Zp.
RO Map. Let H = {H╬╗}╬╗ be a family of hash functions where each h ŌłłH╬╗ takes ╬╗ bits as input,
and outputs ╬╗-bits of output. The hash setup HGenH simply samples a hash function h ŌłłH╬╗
and outputs hk = h, and HH(hk = h, m) = h(m) where output h(m) is interpreted as a ’¼üeld
element of Zp. Clearly, if h is modeled as a random oracle, then so is the resulting mapping.
4For simplicity, here we asssume that the adversary queries all its challenge messages to the random oracle. This can
be assumed without loss of generality, as these could be added on top of an already admissible adversary.
26

Aggregating Inverse Exponents.
Our aggregate signature scheme relies on the ŌĆ£key accumula-
tionŌĆØ algorithm of Delerabl├®e, Paillier, and Pointcheval [DPP07, DP08]. We refer to the algorithm
as the DPP algorithm which takes as input a sequence of group elements {g
r
╬│+xi , xi}iŌłł[Ōäō], and out-
puts g
r
Q
iŌłł[Ōäō](╬│+xi) . However, as discussed in the introduction, we can rely on the alternate and more
e’¼ācient LagrangeŌĆÖs inverse polynomial interpolation technique for a simpler aggregation algorithm.
The idea behind our more e’¼ācient accumulation algorithm is as follows. By LagrangeŌĆÖs polynomial
interpolation formula we know that for a degree-Ōäōpolynomial passing through points (xi, yi) for
i Ōłł[Ōäō], the corresponding polynomial p(x) can be written as follows
p(x) =
X
jŌłł[Ōäō]
yjLj(x),
where Lj(x) =
Q
i╠Ė=j(x ŌłÆxi)
Q
i╠Ė=j(xj ŌłÆxi).
Now if we set yi = 1 for all i Ōłł[Ōäō]. That is, p(xi) = 1 for all i. Then, by inspection, we know that
p(x) = Q
i(xŌłÆxi)+1 is an identity. Thus, by using the above LagrangeŌĆÖs polynomial interpolation
equation, we get that
Y
i
(x ŌłÆxi) + 1 =
X
jŌłł[Ōäō]
Q
i╠Ė=j(x ŌłÆxi)
Q
i╠Ė=j(xj ŌłÆxi).
Dividing both sides by Q
i(x ŌłÆxi) we get that
1 +
1
Q
i(x ŌłÆxi) =
X
iŌłł[Ōäō]
Ōłåi
x ŌłÆxi
,
where Ōłåi =
1
Q
j╠Ė=i(xi ŌłÆxj).
Since Ōłåi can be publicly computed given the list x1, . . . , xŌäō, thus the aggregation algorithm for
group elements follows.
6.1
Construction
Below we provide our construction for single-signer aggregate signatures with ╬╗-bit messages. Since
we are in the single-signer setting, thus we no longer need to introduce the CRS algorithm as part
of its description.
Setup(1╬╗, 1B) ŌåÆ(vk(local), vk, sk). The setup algorithm takes as input the security parameter, ╬╗,
as well as the upper bound on number of aggregations, B. It samples the bilinear group
parameters ╬Ā = (p, G, GT , g, e(┬Ę, ┬Ę)) ŌåÉGen(1╬╗), and samples a random exponent ╬▒ ŌåÉZŌłŚ
p.
It also samples the public parameters for message hashing as hk ŌåÉHGen(1╬╗). It sets the
key pair as vk = (╬Ā, hk, {g╬▒i}iŌłł[B]) and sk = (╬Ā, hk, ╬▒). It also sets the local veri’¼ücation key
vk(local) as vk(local) = (╬Ā, hk, g╬▒).
note. We would like to point out that the setup algorithm for aggregate signatures typically
outputs only a veri’¼ücation-signing key pair. However, here also introduce a local veri’¼ücation
key that is entirely contained inside the full veri’¼ücation key, but it serves as a shorter key
for the local veri’¼ücation algorithm to use. Simply put, here we consider bounded aggregate
signatures with local veri’¼ücation, and to make the notion of local veri’¼ücation interesting in the
bounded aggregation setting, we introduce a local veri’¼ücation key whose size is independent of
27

the aggregation bound B thereby enabling the local veri’¼ücation algorithm to be independent
of the number of aggregations. One could have instead de’¼üned local veri’¼ücation algorithm
to have RAM access over the full veri’¼ücation key, and require the worst case run-time of the
local veri’¼ücation to not grow with the number of underlying aggregations whenever the local
veri’¼ücation is modeled as a RAM.
Sign(sk, m) ŌåÆŽā. It parses sk as above, and hashes the message as hm = H(hk, m). It computes the
signature as g(╬▒+hm)ŌłÆ1 which can be computed e’¼āciently since it knows ╬▒.5
Verify(vk, m, Žā). It parses vk as above, and computes the message hash as hm = H(hk, m). It checks
whether e(Žā, g╬▒ghm) = e(g, g) where g╬▒ is taken from the veri’¼ücation key vk.6 If the check
succeeds, then it outputs 1 to signal that the signature is valid, otherwise it outputs 0.
Aggregate (vk, {(mi, Žāi)}i) ŌåÆbŽā/ŌŖź. The signature aggregation algorithm ’¼ürst veri’¼ües all the input
signatures Žāi, and outputs ŌŖźif any of these veri’¼ücations fail. Otherwise, it computes the
aggregated signature as
bŽā = DPP({Žāi, xi}i),
where xi = H(hk, mi).
AggVerify
 vk, {mi}iŌłł[Ōäō], bŽā

. The signature veri’¼ücation algorithm parses the veri’¼ücation key as above,
and computes the sequence of hashed messages as xi = H(hk, mi) for all i Ōłł[Ōäō] where Ōäōis the
number of aggregated messages. It then computes the following polynomial P symbolically
to obtain the coe’¼ācients {╬▓i ŌłłZp}iŌłł[Ōäō]:
P{xi}iŌłł[Ōäō](y) =
Y
iŌłł[Ōäō]
(y + xi) =
Ōäō
X
i=0
╬▓iyi (mod p).
(5)
It then checks that ŌäōŌēżB and whether the following is true or not:
e(bŽā,
ŌäōY
i=0
(g╬▒i)╬▓i) = e(g, g),
where g╬▒i are taken from the veri’¼ücation key vk. If the check succeeds, then it outputs 1 to
signal that the aggregated signature is valid, otherwise it outputs 0.
LocalOpen(vk, {mi}iŌłł[Ōäō], j Ōłł[Ōäō]) ŌåÆauxj. It parses vk as above, computes the sequence of hash mes-
sages as xi = H(hk, mi) for all i Ōłł[Ōäō] \ {j}, and computes the coe’¼ācients { e╬▓i ŌłłZp}iŌłł[ŌäōŌłÆ1],
similar to that in Eq. (5) except it removes (y + xj) from the list of monomials. Concretely,
it computes
P{xi}iŌłł[Ōäō]\{j}(y) =
Y
iŌłł[Ōäō]\{j}
(y + xi) =
ŌäōŌłÆ1
X
i=0
e╬▓iyi (mod p).
(6)
5For simplicity, we ignore the possibility that ╬▒ + hm = 0 as that could be easily handled as a special case by
outputting the identity group element, but keeping it as part of the scheme description makes it cumbersome.
6Note that the veri’¼ücation algorithm does not the entire veri’¼ücation key, but the local portion of veri’¼ücation key
would be su’¼ācient.
28

It then outputs the auxiliary opening information auxj = (auxj,1, auxj,2) where auxj,1, auxj,2
are computed as
auxj,1 =
ŌäōŌłÆ1
Y
i=0
(g╬▒i)
e╬▓i,
auxj,2 =
ŌäōŌłÆ1
Y
i=0
(g╬▒i+1)
e╬▓i,
where g╬▒i are taken from the veri’¼ücation key vk.
LocalAggVerify(bŽā, vk(local), m, aux). The local veri’¼ücation algorithm parses the local veri’¼ücation key
vk(local) as above, and auxiliary opening aux = (aux1, aux2), and computes the message hash
as hm = H(hk, m). It checks the following two conditions:
e(bŽā, aux1hmaux2) = e(g, g)
e(g╬▒, aux1) = e(g, aux2)
where g╬▒ is taken from the local veri’¼ücation key vk. If both the check succeed, then it outputs
1 to signal that the signature is valid, otherwise it outputs 0.
note.
As we pointed out before, instead of de’¼üning the local veri’¼ücation key, we could
provide the local veri’¼üer RAM access to the full veri’¼ücation key, and since it only needs to
extract g╬▒ from the full veri’¼ücation key, thus the veri’¼ücation will be e’¼ācient even with that
formalization.
In addition to the above algorithms, we want to point out that the scheme supports unordered
sequential signing on top of single-hop aggregation. Below we describe our sequential signing and
veri’¼ücation algorithms:
SeqAggSign (sk, mŌĆ▓, {mi}i, bŽā) ŌåÆbŽāŌĆ▓. The sequential signing algorithm ’¼ürst veri’¼ües the input aggre-
gated signature bŽā, and outputs ŌŖźif the veri’¼ücation fails. Otherwise, it hashes the message
as hmŌĆ▓ = H(hk, mŌĆ▓), and computes the new aggregated signature as bŽā(╬▒+hmŌĆ▓)ŌłÆ1 since it knows
╬▒.
SeqAggVerify
 vk, {mi}iŌłł[Ōäō], bŽā

. The sequential veri’¼ücation algorithm simply runs the (non-sequential)
aggregated veri’¼ücation and outputs AggVerify(vk, {mi}i, bŽā). That is, it interprets bŽā as a non-
sequential aggregated signature on {mi}iŌłł[Ōäō], and veri’¼ües bŽā.
6.2
Correctness, Compactness, and More Properties
Correctness of signing.
This follows directly from the fact that e(g(╬▒+hm)ŌłÆ1, g╬▒ghm) = e(g, g)
where hm = H(hk, m).
Correctness of Aggregation.
Consider any sequence of messages m1, . . . , mŌäō, and correspond-
ing signatures Žāi = g(╬▒+hmi)ŌłÆ1 for i Ōłł[Ōäō] where hmi = H(hk, mi). We know that aggregating these
signatures is done as bŽā = DPP({Žāi, hmi}i). Now by the correctness of the key accumulation algo-
rithm of [DPP07, DP08], we have that bŽā = g
Q
i(╬▒+hmi)ŌłÆ1. And, the aggregated veri’¼ücation checks
the following:
e(bŽā,
ŌäōY
i=0
(g╬▒i)╬▓i) = e(g, g),
29

where ╬▓iŌĆÖs are such that PŌäō
i=0 ╬▓iyi = Q
iŌłł[Ōäō](y + hmi) (mod p). Thus, we have that
ŌäōY
i=0
(g╬▒i)╬▓i = g
PŌäō
i=0 ╬▒i╬▓i = g
Q
iŌłł[Ōäō](╬▒+hmi).
Therefore, for honestly computed and aggregated signatures, the above check succeeds and cor-
rectness follows.
Compactness of Aggregation.
The size of an aggregated signature is same as that of an un-
aggregated signature, which simply is a source group element (i.e., bŽā ŌłłG).
Unique Signatues.
Note that the above signature scheme is a unique signature scheme. This
follows from the fact that the mesage hashing is a determinstic function, and if e(Žā, g╬▒ghm) = e(g, g),
then it must be that Žā = g(╬▒+hm)ŌłÆ1 which can be uniquely computed since G is a prime order source
group.
Single-Hop, Unordered Sequential Aggregation with Fully Public Local Openings.
We
would like to point out that the above construction is a single-hop aggregate signature scheme. And,
since the product operation is independent of the sequence of multiplication, thus the aggregated
veri’¼ücation does not depend on the order of aggregation, but only the needs the unordered sequence
of aggregated messages. Here the sequential signing can be performed arbitrarily on top of an
aggregated signature.
Lastly, an interesting feature of these signatures is that they provide fully public local openings,
and the LocalOpen algorithm does not need an aggregated signature as an extra input.
6.3
Security
Static (Aggregated) Unforgeability.
We show that if we instantiate the message hashing as
the identity map in our above aggregate signature construction, then the resulting scheme satis’¼ües
static unforgeability. Formally, we prove the following.
Theorem 6.1 (Static Unforgeability). If the DHI assumption (Assumption 3.6) holds, and (HGen, H)
is an identity hash, then the aggregate signature scheme described above satis’¼ües static unforge-
ability, and static aggregated unforgeability (De’¼ünitions 4.2 and 4.4).
Also, if the BDHI assumption (Assumption 3.7) holds, and (HGen, H) is an identity hash, then
the aggregate signature scheme described above also satis’¼ües static aggregated unforgeability with
adversarial openings (De’¼ünition 4.6).
Proof. We would like to point out that the proof of aggregated unforgeability is more general than
regular unforgeability, thus we ’¼ürst only prove static aggregated unforgeability for our signature
scheme. Later, we prove unforgeability in presence of adversarial openings as well.
30

Aggregated unforgeability.
Suppose there exists a PPT adversary A that breaks aggregated
unforgeability with non-negligible probability ŽĄ. Then we construct a PPT adversary B that breaks
the q-DHI assumption with ŽĄ ŌłÆnegl probability for some negligible function negl. We describe
reduction algorithm B below.
Since we are proving only static security, thus the adversary A submits all its signature queries
{mi}iŌłł[qs] and the sequence of challenge messages (mŌłŚ
1, . . . , mŌłŚ
Ōäō) at the beginning to the reduction
algorithm B. Since A is an admissible adversary, thus ŌäōŌēź1 and there exists an index jŌłŚsuch that
mŌłŚ
jŌłŚ/Ōłł{mi}iŌłł[qs]. (Here Ōäō= 1 corresponds to regular unforgeability, whereas Ōäō> 1 corresponds to
aggregated unforgeability.)
Let jŌłŚŌłł[Ōäō] be the smallest index with aforementioned property, and B be the aggregation
bound. The reduction algorithm then breaks the q-SDH assumption, where the hardness parameter
q is such that q Ōēźqs + Ōäō+ B ŌłÆ1. The DHI challenger samples the bilinear group parameters
╬Ā = (p, G, GT , h, e(┬Ę, ┬Ę)), and a sequence of group elements {hi = hai}q
i=0 for a randomly chosen
exponent a ŌłłZŌłŚ
p, and sends (╬Ā, h1, . . . , hq) to B.
Let S denote the set of messages S := {mi}iŌłł[qs] Ōł¬{mŌłŚ
j}jŌłł[Ōäō]\{jŌłŚ}, that is S contains only the
distinct messages in the queried set and challenge set (after taking out mŌłŚ
jŌłŚ).
We know that
|S| Ōēżqs + ŌäōŌłÆ1. The reduction B then implicitly sets the signing key ╬▒ = a ŌłÆmŌłŚ
jŌłŚ, and the base
group element g to be h
Qqs
i=1(╬▒+mi)
0
= h
Qqs
i=1(a+miŌłÆmŌłŚ
jŌłŚ)
0
. This also implies that the remaining group
elements in the veri’¼ücation key {gi = g╬▒i}iŌłł[B] are set as gi = h
(aŌłÆmŌłŚ
jŌłŚ)i Qqs
i=0(a+miŌłÆmŌłŚ
jŌłŚ)
0
. For ease
of notation we refer to generator g as g0 througout the proof.
Now in order to compute these elements in the veri’¼ücation key, B ’¼ürst computes the following
polynomials Pj for j Ōłł[0, B] to obtain the coe’¼ācients {╬▓(i)
j
ŌłłZp}|S|+j
i=0 :
ŌłĆj Ōłł[0, B],
Pj(X) = (X ŌłÆmŌłŚ
jŌłŚ)j Y
mŌłłS
(X + m ŌłÆmŌłŚ
jŌłŚ) =
|S|+j
X
i=0
╬▓(i)
j Xi (mod p).
(7)
It samples a random exponent ╬┤ ŌłłZŌłŚ
p, and computes the group elements gj to be included in the
veri’¼ücation key as
ŌłĆj Ōłł[0, B],
gj = h╬┤Pj(a) = h╬┤ P|S|+j
i=0
╬▓(i)
j ai =
|S|+j
Y
i=0
h╬┤╬▓(i)
j ai =
|S|+j
Y
i=0
h
╬┤╬▓(i)
j
i
.
(8)
It sets the veri’¼ücation keys vk and vk(local) as vk = ((p, G, GT , g0, e(┬Ę, ┬Ę)), hk = ŽĄ, {gi}B
i=1), and
vk(local) = ((p, G, GT , g0, e(┬Ę, ┬Ę)), hk = ŽĄ, g1). That is, note that g0 is not the same generator that the
DHI challenger provided, but computed di’¼Ćerently as described above.
Let QŌłÆi be the following polynomial with coe’¼ācients {╬│(j)
i
ŌłłZp}|S|ŌłÆ1
j=0 :
ŌłĆi Ōłł[qs],
QŌłÆi(X) =
Y
mŌłłS\{mi}
(X + m ŌłÆmŌłŚ
jŌłŚ) =
|S|ŌłÆ1
X
j=0
╬│(j)
i Xj (mod p),
which is simply the polynomial P0 (described in Eq. (7)) but with the monomial (X + mi ŌłÆmŌłŚ
jŌłŚ)
31

removed. B then computes the signatures for messages m1, . . . , mqs as
ŌłĆi Ōłł[qs],
Žāi = g(a+miŌłÆmŌłŚ
jŌłŚ)ŌłÆ1 = h
╬┤
P0(a)
a+miŌłÆmŌłŚ
jŌłŚ
0
= h╬┤QŌłÆi(a)
0
=
|S|ŌłÆ1
Y
j=0
h
╬┤╬│(j)
i
j
.
(9)
B then sends vk, vk(local) and {Žāi}i to the adversary A. A then sends its forged signature bŽā (which
corresponds to an aggregated signature for the sequence of challenge messages mŌłŚ
1, . . . , mŌłŚ
Ōäō). B
then checks if bŽā is a valid accepting signature. It aborts if it is an invalid signature, otherwise it
computes the following polynomial symbolically
P ŌłŚ(X) =
P0(X)
Q
jŌłł[Ōäō](X + mŌłŚ
j ŌłÆmŌłŚ
jŌłŚ) =
Q
mŌłłS\{mŌłŚ
j }j(X + m ŌłÆmŌłŚ
jŌłŚ)
X
= ╬▓ŌłŚ
ŌłÆ1
X +
|S|ŌłÆŌäō
X
i=0
╬▓ŌłŚ
i Xi (mod p), (10)
and obtains coe’¼ācients {╬▓ŌłŚ
i }|S|ŌłÆŌäō
i=ŌłÆ1. Finally, it computes
Z =
’Ż½
’ŻŁbŽā1/╬┤
|S|ŌłÆŌäō
Y
i=0
hŌłÆ╬▓ŌłŚ
i
i
’ŻČ
’ŻĖ
1/╬▓ŌłŚ
ŌłÆ1
,
and outputs Z as its DHI solution.
We claim that if A wins with probability ŽĄ, then B wins with probability ŽĄŌłÆnegl. First, observe
that if A is an admissible adversary, then B aborts with at most negligible probability. Next, we
show that Za = h0 whenever bŽā is an accepting signature for (mŌłŚ
1, . . . , mŌłŚ
Ōäō) and A is an admissible
adversary. This is because if A is an admissible adversary, then jŌłŚas de’¼üned above exists, and we
have that
e(bŽā,
ŌäōY
j=0
(gj)
e╬▓j) = e(g0, g0),
(11)
where {e╬▓j}Ōäō
j=0 is such that Q
jŌłł[Ōäō](X + mŌłŚ
j) = PŌäō
j=0 e╬▓jXj (mod p). Now, rewriting QŌäō
j=0(gj)e╬▓j
gives us that
ŌäōY
j=0
(gj)
e╬▓j = g
PŌäō
j=0 e╬▓j╬▒j
0
= g
Q
jŌłł[Ōäō](╬▒+mŌłŚ
j )
0
= g
Q
jŌłł[Ōäō](a+mŌłŚ
j ŌłÆmŌłŚ
jŌłŚ)
0
.
This combined with Eq. (11), we get that it must be the case that bŽā = g
Q
jŌłł[Ōäō](a+mŌłŚ
j ŌłÆmŌłŚ
jŌłŚ)ŌłÆ1
0
. And,
since we have that g0 = h
╬┤ Q
mŌłłS(a+m)
0
, we get that the following must be true
bŽā = h
╬┤ Q
mŌłłS(a+mŌłÆmŌłŚ
jŌłŚ) Q
jŌłł[Ōäō](a+mŌłŚ
j ŌłÆmŌłŚ
jŌłŚ)ŌłÆ1
0
= h╬┤P ŌłŚ(a)
0
.
The last equality follows from the de’¼ünition of P ŌłŚ(see Eq. (10)) the fact that mŌłŚ
jŌłŚ/ŌłłS. And, we
also have that ╬▓ŌłŚ
ŌłÆ1 ╠Ė= 0 as otherwise mŌłŚ
jŌłŚŌłłS, thus rewriting the above equation gives us that
bŽā1/╬┤ = hP ŌłŚ(a)
0
= h
╬▓ŌłŚ
ŌłÆ1
a +P|S|ŌłÆŌäō
i=0
╬▓ŌłŚ
i ai
0
= h
╬▓ŌłŚ
ŌłÆ1
a
0
┬Ę
|S|ŌłÆŌäō
Y
i=0
h╬▓ŌłŚ
i
i .
32

Rewriting this further gives us
bŽā1/╬┤
|S|ŌłÆŌäō
Y
i=0
hŌłÆ╬▓ŌłŚ
i
i
= h
╬▓ŌłŚ
ŌłÆ1
a
ŌćÆ
’Ż½
’ŻŁbŽā1/╬┤
|S|ŌłÆŌäō
Y
i=0
hŌłÆ╬▓ŌłŚ
i
i
’ŻČ
’ŻĖ
1/╬▓ŌłŚ
ŌłÆ1
= h
1
a .
Here the left side term is exactly how Z is computed, thus Z is a valid solution to the DHI problem.
This concludes the proof of static aggregated unforgeability.
Aggregated unforgeability with adversarial openings.
Next, we show that our signature
scheme also satis’¼ües aggregated unforgeability with adversarial openings. As the theorem says, this
relies on the hardness of BDHI. Suppose there exists a PPT adversary A that breaks aggregated
unforgeability with adversarial openings with non-negligible probability ŽĄ. Then we construct a
PPT adversary B that breaks the q-BDHI assumption in the target group with ŽĄ ŌłÆnegl probability
for some negligible function negl. We describe reduction algorithm B below.
Since we are proving only static security, thus the adversary A submits all its signature queries
S := {mi}iŌłł[qs] and the challenge message mŌłŚat the beginning to the reduction algorithm B. Since
A is an admissible adversary, mŌłŚ/ŌłłS. Let B be the aggregation bound. The reduction algorithm
then breaks the q-BDHI assumption in the target group, where the hardness parameter q is such that
q Ōēźqs + B. The BDHI challenger samples the bilinear group parameters ╬Ā = (p, G, GT , h, e(┬Ę, ┬Ę)),
and a sequence of group elements {hi = hai}q
i=0 for a randomly chosen exponent a ŌłłZŌłŚ
p, and sends
(╬Ā, h1, . . . , hq) to B. The reduction B then computes the polynomials Pj (for set S) symbolically to
obtain the coe’¼ācients {╬▓(i)
j
ŌłłZp}|S|
i=0 corresponding to set S for j Ōłł[0, B] as in Eq. (7). It samples
a random exponent ╬┤ ŌłłZŌłŚ
p, and computes the group element g = g0 and {gj}jŌłł[B] to be included
in the veri’¼ücation key as in Eq. (8). It sets the veri’¼ücation keys vk and vk(local), and computes the
signatures for messages mi ŌłłS as in the reduction of aggregated unforgeability above (see Eq. (9)).
B then sends vk, vk(local) and {Žāi}i to the adversary A. A then sends its forged signature bŽā
along with a local opening aux = (aux1, aux2) (which corresponds to an aggregated signature with
local opening for the challenge message mŌłŚ). B then checks if bŽā is a valid accepting signature by
running the local veri’¼ücation algorithm. It aborts if it is an invalid signature, otherwise it compute
the polynomial P ŌłŚto compute the coe’¼ācients {╬▓ŌłŚ
i }2SŌłÆ1
i=ŌłÆ1 as
P ŌłŚ(X) = P0(X) ┬Ę P0(X)
X
= ╬▓ŌłŚ
ŌłÆ1
X +
2|S|ŌłÆ1
X
i=0
╬▓ŌłŚ
i Xi (mod p),
and it outputs Z as its BDHI solution where Z ŌłłGT is computed as
Z =
’Ż½
’ŻŁe(bŽā, aux1)1/╬┤2
2|S|ŌłÆ1
Y
i=0
e(hŌīłi/2Ōīē, hŌīŖi/2Ōīŗ)ŌłÆ╬▓ŌłŚ
i
’ŻČ
’ŻĖ
1/╬▓ŌłŚ
ŌłÆ1
,
We claim that if A wins with probability ŽĄ, then B wins with probability ŽĄŌłÆnegl. First, observe
that if A is an admissible adversary, then B aborts with at most negligible probability. Next, we
33

claim that e(bŽā, aux1)╬▒+mŌłŚ= e(bŽā, aux1)a = e(g0, g0) = e(g, g) whenever bŽā is an accepting signature
for mŌłŚwith opening aux and A is admissible adversary. This is because if the signature is valid,
then have that
e(bŽā, aux1mŌłŚaux2) = e(g0, g0), and e(g1, aux1) = e(g0, aux2).
First, from the fact e(g1, aux1) = e(g0, aux2) and g1 = g╬▒
0 = gaŌłÆmŌłŚ
0
we get that it must be the case
that auxaŌłÆmŌłŚ
1
= aux2. Now this gives that e(bŽā, aux1)aŌłÆmŌłŚ= e(bŽā, aux2), and combining this with
e(bŽā, aux1mŌłŚaux2) = e(g0, g0), we obtain e(bŽā, aux1)a = e(g0, g0). This gives us that
e(bŽā, aux1) = e(h╬┤P0(a)
0
, h╬┤P0(a)
0
)1/a
= e(h0, h0)
(╬┤P0(a))2
a
= e(h0, h0)
╬┤2

╬▓ŌłŚ
ŌłÆ1
a +P2|S|ŌłÆ1
i=0
╬▓ŌłŚ
i ai

= e(h0, h0)
╬┤2

╬▓ŌłŚ
ŌłÆ1
a
 2|S|ŌłÆ1
Y
i=0
e(haŌīłi/2Ōīē
0
, haŌīŖi/2Ōīŗ
0
)╬┤2╬▓ŌłŚ
i
= e(h0, h0)
╬┤2

╬▓ŌłŚ
ŌłÆ1
a
 2|S|ŌłÆ1
Y
i=0
e(hŌīłi/2Ōīē, hŌīŖi/2Ōīŗ)╬┤2╬▓ŌłŚ
i
This can be further simpli’¼üed as
e(bŽā, aux1)1/╬┤2
2|S|ŌłÆ1
Y
i=0
e(hŌīłi/2Ōīē, hŌīŖi/2Ōīŗ)ŌłÆ╬▓ŌłŚ
i = e(h, h)
╬▓ŌłŚ
ŌłÆ1
a .
Here the left side of the equation is precisely Z╬▓ŌłŚ
ŌłÆ1, thus we get that Z = e(h, h)1/a whenever bŽā
is a valid signature for mŌłŚwith opening aux, and A is an admissible adversary. Thus, aggregated
unforgeability with adversarial openings follows from hardness of BDHI.
Full (Aggregated) Unforgeability in ROM.
Next, we show that if we instantiate the message
hashing in the ROM, then the above aggregate signature construction satis’¼ües full unforgeability.
Formally, we prove the following.
Theorem 6.2 (Full Unforgeability). If the DHI assumption (Assumption 3.6) holds, and (HGen, H)
is instantiated in the ROM, then the aggregate signature scheme described above satis’¼ües (full)
unforgeability, and aggregated unforgeability (De’¼ünitions 4.1 and 4.3).
Also, if the BDHI assumption (Assumption 3.7) holds, and (HGen, H) is instantiated in the
ROM, then the aggregate signature scheme described above also satis’¼ües (full) aggregated unforge-
ability with adversarial openings (De’¼ünition 4.5).
Proof. As in the case for RSA-based signatures, the proof of full security in the ROM is very
similar to the proof of Theorem 5.3.
34

Aggregated unforgeability.
Suppose there exists a PPT adversary A that breaks full/adaptive
aggregated unforgeability with non-negligible probability ŽĄ. Then we construct a PPT adversary B
that breaks the strong DH assumption with ŽĄ/QRO ŌłÆnegl probability for some negligible function
negl, where QRO is the number of queries A makes to the random oracle.7 We describe reduction
algorithm B below.
The reduction algorithm B is constructed analogous to that in the proof of Theorem 6.1, except
now B uses the power of programmability.
B guesses the index of the challenge message mŌłŚ
jŌłŚ
amongst all the RO queries, and programs the hashed message associated with mŌłŚ
jŌłŚas a random
exponent hmŌłŚ
jŌłŚ, and implicitly sets ╬▒ = a ŌłÆhmŌłŚ
jŌłŚsimilar to in the static security proof. It also
samples the remaining hash messages for all queried messages at the beginning of the game, and
programs them for each queried message at the time the message is ’¼ürst queried.
The entire
reduction algorithm is de’¼üned as before, and the analysis remains identical except the reduction
algorithm also aborts if guesses the index of the challenge message mŌłŚ
jŌłŚincorrectly. Since BŌĆÖs guess
is correct with probability at least 1/QRO, thus BŌĆÖs ’¼ünal advantage will be ŽĄ/QRO ŌłÆnegl. This
concludes the proof.
Aggregated unforgeability with adversarial openings.
With similar modi’¼ücations as in the
above proof, we can reduce full aggregated unforgeability with adversarial openings to BDHI in the
ROM. As above, the reduction su’¼Ćers from a polynomial loss.
7
Pairing-based Aggregate Identity-Based Encryption
In this section, we provide an aggregate IBE scheme based on the hardness of strong Di’¼āe-Hellman
problem. Our constructions supports bounded aggregation of secret keys.
7.1
Construction
Setup(1╬╗, 1B) ŌåÆ(mpk, msk). The setup algorithm takes as input the security parameter, ╬╗, as well
as the upper bound on number of aggregations, B. It samples the bilinear group parameters
╬Ā = (p, G, GT , g, e(┬Ę, ┬Ę)) ŌåÉGen(1╬╗), and samples a random exponent ╬▒ ŌåÉZŌłŚ
p. It also samples
the public parameters for identity hashing as hk ŌåÉHGen(1╬╗). It sets the key pair as mpk =
(╬Ā, hk, {g╬▒i}iŌłł[B]) and sk = (╬Ā, hk, ╬▒).
KeyGen(msk, id) ŌåÆskid. It parses msk as above, and hashes the identity as hid = H(hk, id).
It
computes the secret key as g(╬▒+hid)ŌłÆ1 which can be computed e’¼āciently since it knows ╬▒.
Aggregate (mpk, {(idi, ski)}i) ŌåÆbsk. The key aggregation algorithm computes the aggregated key as
bsk = DPP({ski, xi}i),
where xi = H(hk, idi).
7For simplicity, here we asssume that the adversary queries all its challenge messages to the random oracle. This can
be assumed without loss of generality, as these could be added on top of an already admissible adversary.
35

Enc(mpk, id, m, 1T ) ŌåÆct. The encryption algorithm takes as input key mpk (parsed as above), iden-
tity id, message m, and a bound T, where T declares the maximum number of aggregations
that any valid secret key could have and still be used for decryption.8
It samples a random exponent r ŌåÉZp, computes hid = H(hk, id), outputs the ciphertext as
ct =

{gr(╬▒+hid)╬▒i}T
i=0, e(g, g)r ┬Ę m

.
Here gr(╬▒+hid)╬▒i is computed exponentiating the terms g╬▒i+1, g╬▒i with r, r ┬Ę hid (respectively)
and then multiplying them.
AggDec( bsk, (id1, . . . , idŌäō), ct, j Ōłł[Ōäō]). It parses ct as ({Ai}T
i=0, B), and computes the identity hash
for all but j-th identity as xi = H(hk, idi) for i Ōłł[Ōäō] \ {j}. It then computes the coe’¼ācients
{ e╬▓i ŌłłZp}iŌłł[ŌäōŌłÆ1], as in Eq. (6). That is, it computes
P{xi}iŌłł[Ōäō]\{j}(y) =
Y
iŌłł[Ōäō]\{j}
(y + xi) =
ŌäōŌłÆ1
X
i=0
e╬▓iyi (mod p).
(12)
It then outputs the decrypted message as
B
e(QŌäōŌłÆ1
i=0 A
e╬▓i
i , sk)
.
7.2
Correctness and Compactness
Correctness of aggregated decryption.
Consider any sequence of identities id1, . . . , idŌäō, and
corresponding keys ski = g(╬▒+hmi)ŌłÆ1 for i Ōłł[Ōäō] where hidi = H(hk, idi). We know that aggregating
these keys is done as bsk = DPP({ski, hmi}i).
Now by the correctness of the key accumulation
algorithm of [DPP07, DP08], we have that bsk = g
Q
i(╬▒+hmi)ŌłÆ1. Now a ciphertext encrypted for
identity idiŌłŚconsists of the following
ct =

{gr(╬▒+hidiŌłŚ)╬▒i}T
i=0, e(g, g)r ┬Ę m

.
And to decrypt, the aggregated decryption computes the following:
e( bsk,
ŌäōŌłÆ1
Y
i=0
(gr(╬▒+hidiŌłŚ)╬▒i)╬▓i)
where ╬▓iŌĆÖs are such that PŌäōŌłÆ1
i=0 ╬▓iyi = Q
iŌłł[Ōäō]\{iŌłŚ}(y + hmi) (mod p). Thus, we have that
ŌäōŌłÆ1
Y
i=0
(gr(╬▒+hidiŌłŚ)╬▒i)╬▓i = g
PŌäōŌłÆ1
i=0 r(╬▒+hidiŌłŚ)╬▒i╬▓i = g
Q
iŌłł[Ōäō](╬▒+hmi).
8Basically, if T = 0, then the ciphertext can only be decrypted by regular (non-aggregated) keys, and otherwise it
can be decrypted by any secret key which is an aggregation of secret key for id along with at most T other identity
keys.
36

Therefore, for honestly computed ciphertexts, we get that
e( bsk,
ŌäōŌłÆ1
Y
i=0
(gr(╬▒+hidiŌłŚ)╬▒i)╬▓i) = e(g, g)r
Thus, decryptor correctly recovers the message and correctness follows.
Compactness of Aggregation.
The size of an aggregated secret key is same as that of an
unaggregated secret key, which simply is a source group element (i.e., bsk ŌłłG).
7.3
Security
Static Semantic Security.
We show that if we instantiate the message hashing as the identity
map in our above aggregate IBE construction, then the resulting scheme satis’¼ües static semantic
security. Formally, we prove the following.
Theorem 7.1 (Static Security). If the Decisional BDHI assumption (Assumption 3.8) holds, and
(HGen, H) is an identity hash, then the aggregate IBE scheme described above satis’¼ües static se-
mantic security (De’¼ünition 4.10).
Proof. Suppose there exists a PPT adversary A that breaks static semantic security with non-
negligible advantage ŽĄ. Then we construct a PPT adversary B that breaks the DBDHI assumption
with ŽĄ advantage. We describe reduction algorithm B below.
In the static setting, the adversary A submits all its key queries S = {idi}iŌłł[qk] and the challenge
identity idŌłŚat the beginning to the reduction algorithm B. Let B be the aggregation bound. The
reduction algorithm then breaks the decisional q-BDHI assumption, where the hardness parameter
q is such that q Ōēźqk+BŌłÆ1. The decisional BDHI challenger samples the bilinear group parameters
╬Ā = (p, G, GT , h0, e(┬Ę, ┬Ę)), and a sequence of group elements {hi = hai
0 }q
i=0 for a randomly chosen
exponent a ŌłłZŌłŚ
p, and sends (╬Ā, h1, . . . , hq, Z) to B where Z is the BDHI challenge which is either
sampled random target group element, or it is e(h0, h0)1/a.
The reduction B then implicitly sets the master key ╬▒ = a ŌłÆidŌłŚ, and the base group element g
to be h
Qqk
i=1(╬▒+idi)
0
= h
Qqk
i=1(a+idiŌłÆidŌłŚ)
0
. In order to compute these elements in the master public key,
B ’¼ürst computes the polynomials
ŌłĆj Ōłł[0, B],
PS,j,idŌłŚ(X) = (X ŌłÆidŌłŚ)j Y
iŌłł[qk]
(X + idi ŌłÆidŌłŚ) =
qk+j
X
i=0
╬▓(i)
S,j,idŌłŚXi (mod p)
to obtain the coe’¼ācients {╬▓(i)
S,j,idŌłŚ}jŌłł[0,B],iŌłł[0,qk+j]. Using these coe’¼ācients, B computes the master
public key
mpk =

(p, G, GT , g0, e(┬Ę, ┬Ę)), hk = ŽĄ, {gj = g╬▒j
0 }jŌłł[B]

,
where the group elements g0, . . . , gB as:
ŌłĆj Ōłł[0, B],
gj =
qk+j
Y
i=0
h
╬┤╬▓(i)
S,j,idŌłŚ
i
= h
Pqk+j
i=0
╬┤╬▓(i)
S,j,idŌłŚai
0
= h
╬┤(aŌłÆidŌłŚ)j Q
iŌłł[qk](a+idiŌłÆidŌłŚ)
0
,
37

where ╬┤ ŌłłZŌłŚ
p is a randomly sampled exponent. It then computes the secret keys for the queried
identities S = {idj}jŌłł[qk] by ’¼ürst computing the coe’¼ācients {╬▓(i)
S,j}jŌłł[qk],iŌłł[0,qkŌłÆ1] associated with
the following polynomials
ŌłĆj Ōłł[qk],
PS,j(X) =
Y
iŌłł[qk]\{j}
(X + idi ŌłÆidŌłŚ) =
qkŌłÆ1
X
i=0
╬▓(i)
S,jXi (mod p)
Using these, it computes the secret keys as
ŌłĆj Ōłł[qk],
skj =
qkŌłÆ1
Y
i=0
h
╬┤╬▓(i)
S,j
i
= h
PqkŌłÆ1
i=0
╬┤╬▓(i)
S,jai
0
= h
╬┤ Q
iŌłł[qk]\{j}(a+idiŌłÆidŌłŚ)
0
.
B then sends the master public key mpk, and secret keys {skj}jŌłł[qk] as computed above to A. The
adversary submits two challenge messages m0, m1, and B after receiving the challenge messages, it
computes the challenge ciphertext by implicitly setting the random exponent r = ╬│/(╬▒+idŌłŚ) = ╬│/a
for a randomly sampled exponent ╬│ ŌåÉZŌłŚ
p. By implicitly setting r = ╬│/a, the challenge ciphertext
look as follows:
ctŌłŚ=

{g╬│(aŌłÆidŌłŚ)i
0
}T
i=0, e(g0, g0)╬│/a ┬Ę mb

,
where b is a randomly sampled challenge bit. Note that gj = h
╬┤(aŌłÆidŌłŚ)j Q
iŌłł[qk](a+idiŌłÆidŌłŚ)
0
, thus we get
that g╬│(aŌłÆidŌłŚ)i
0
= g╬│
i . Also, note that e(g0, g0)╬│/a can be computed as follows:
e(g0, g0)╬│/a = e(
qk
Y
i=0
h
╬┤╬▓(i)
S,0,idŌłŚ
i
,
qk
Y
i=0
h
╬┤╬▓(i)
S,0,idŌłŚ
i
)╬│/a
=
Y
0Ōēżi,jŌēżqk
e(h
╬┤╬▓(i)
S,0,idŌłŚ
i
, h
╬┤╬▓(j)
S,0,idŌłŚ
j
)╬│/a
= e(h0, h0)(╬┤╬▓(0)
S,0,idŌłŚ)2╬│/a
Y
0Ōēżi,jŌēżqk
(i,j)╠Ė=(0,0)
e(h
╬┤╬▓(i)
S,0,idŌłŚ
i
, h
╬┤╬▓(j)
S,0,idŌłŚ
j
)╬│/a
= e(h0, h0)(╬┤╬▓(0)
S,0,idŌłŚ)2╬│/a
Y
0Ōēżi,jŌēżqk
(i,j)╠Ė=(0,0)
e(hi, hj)╬┤2╬▓(i)
S,0,idŌłŚ╬▓(j)
S,0,idŌłŚ╬│/a
= (e(h0, h0)1/a)(╬┤╬▓(0)
S,0,idŌłŚ)2╬│
Y
0Ōēżi,jŌēżqk
(i,j)╠Ė=(0,0)
(e(hi, hj)1/a)╬┤2╬▓(i)
S,0,idŌłŚ╬▓(j)
S,0,idŌłŚ╬│
where e(hi, hj)1/a can be computed as e(hiŌłÆ1, hj) whenever i ╠Ė= 0 and e(hi, hjŌłÆ1) whenever j ╠Ė=
0, and the component e(h0, h0)1/a is replaced with the BDHI challenge Z. Thus, the challenge
ciphertext is set as
ctŌłŚ=
’Ż½
’Ż¼
’Ż¼
’ŻŁ{g╬│
i }T
i=0,
Z(╬┤╬▓(0)
S,0,idŌłŚ)2╬│
Y
0Ōēżi,jŌēżqk
(i,j)╠Ė=(0,0)
(e(hi, hj)1/a)╬┤2╬▓(i)
S,0,idŌłŚ╬▓(j)
S,0,idŌłŚ╬│ ┬Ę mb
’ŻČ
’ŻĘ
’ŻĘ
’ŻĖ.
38

B sends ctŌłŚas the challenge ciphertext to A, and A responds with its guess bŌĆ▓. If bŌĆ▓ ╠Ė= b (i.e. AŌĆÖs
guess is incorrect), then B outputs 1 signalling Z is a random target group element, otherwise it
outputs 0 to signal that Z = e(h0, h0)1/a to the DBDHI challenger.
We claim that if A wins with advantage ŽĄ, then B wins with advantage ŽĄ as well. First, observe
that B simulates all the public parameters and secret keys perfectly as in the original IBE security
game, since it can compute all these terms as appropriate polynomials of the DBDHI challenge
tuple.
Next, note that if Z is a random target group element, then ctŌłŚcompletely hides the
challenge bit b from the adversary, whereas if Z = e(h0, h0)1/a, then ctŌłŚperfectly encrypts the
challenge message mb under idŌłŚ. Thus, AŌĆÖs advantage is 0 when Z ŌåÉGT whereas itŌĆÖs advantage is
ŽĄ when Z = e(h0, h0)1/a. This can be used to argue that BŌĆÖs advantage is also ŽĄ, thereby concluding
the proof of static security.
Full Semantic Security.
Next, we show that if we instantiate the identity hashing in the ROM,
then the above aggregate IBE construction satis’¼ües full security. Formally, we prove the following.
Theorem 7.2 (Full Security). If the Decisional BDHI assumption (Assumption 3.8) holds, and
(HGen, H) is instantiated in the ROM, then the aggregate IBE scheme described above satis’¼ües
(full) semantic security (De’¼ünition 4.9).
Proof. As in the case for bilinear-based aggregate signatures, the proof of full security in the ROM
is identical to the proof of static security as described in Theorem 6.1, except now we use the
fact that the identity hash is modeled as a RO to program each queried identity with a randomly
sampled exponent, where all such exponents are sampled at the beginning of the game. And, the
reduction B also guesses the query index of the challenge identity idŌłŚamongst all the RO queries9,
and programs the hashed identity associated with idŌłŚas a random exponent hidŌłŚ, and implicitly
sets ╬▒ = a ŌłÆhidŌłŚas in the static security proof. It programs the sampled non-challenge identity
hashes for each queried identity at the time it is ’¼ürst queried. The entire reduction algorithm is
de’¼üned as before (except this programming), and the analysis remains identical except the reduction
algorithm also aborts if it guesses the query index of the challenge identity idŌłŚincorrectly, or the
challenge exponent hidŌłŚmatches the DBDHI exponent a (in which case it can distinguish DBDHI
challenge itself). Since BŌĆÖs guess is correct with probability at least 1/QRO, thus BŌĆÖs ’¼ünal advantage
will be ŽĄ/QRO ŌłÆnegl. This concludes the proof.
Acknowledgements.
We thank the anonymous reviewers for their helpful comments. And, we
thank Brent Waters for fruitful discussions.
References
[AGH10]
Jae Hyun Ahn, Matthew Green, and Susan Hohenberger. Synchronized aggregate sig-
natures: new de’¼ünitions, constructions and applications. In Proceedings of the 17th
ACM conference on Computer and communications security, pages 473ŌĆō484, 2010.
9For simplicity, here we asssume that the adversary queries even the challenge identity to the random oracle. This
can be assumed without loss of generality, as this could be added on top of an already admissible adversary.
39

[AKS04]
Manindra Agrawal, Neeraj Kayal, and Nitin Saxena. Primes is in p. Annals of math-
ematics, pages 781ŌĆō793, 2004.
[BB04a]
Dan Boneh and Xavier Boyen. Secure identity based encryption without random oracles.
In CRYPTO, pages 443ŌĆō459, 2004.
[BB04b]
Dan Boneh and Xavier Boyen. Short signatures without random oracles. In Interna-
tional conference on the theory and applications of cryptographic techniques, pages
56ŌĆō73. Springer, 2004.
[BGLS]
Dan Boneh, Craig Gentry, Ben Lynn, and Hovav Shacham. I. a survey of two signature
aggregation techniques. CryptoBytes, page 1.
[BGLS03]
Dan Boneh, Craig Gentry, Ben Lynn, and Hovav Shacham. Aggregate and veri’¼üably
encrypted signatures. In Proceedings of Eurocrypt ŌĆÖ03, volume 2656 of LNCS, pages
416ŌĆō432, 2003.
[BGOY07] Alexandra Boldyreva, Craig Gentry, Adam OŌĆÖNeill, and Dae Hyun Yum.
Ordered
multisignatures and identity-based sequential aggregate signatures, with applications
to secure routing. In Proceedings of the 14th ACM conference on Computer and
communications security, pages 276ŌĆō285, 2007.
[BGR14]
Kyle Brogle, Sharon Goldberg, and Leonid Reyzin. Sequential aggregate signatures
with lazy veri’¼ücation from trapdoor permutations. Information and computation,
239:356ŌĆō376, 2014.
[BJ10]
Ali Bagherzandi and Stanis┼éaw Jarecki. Identity-based aggregate and multi-signature
schemes based on rsa.
In International Workshop on Public Key Cryptography,
pages 480ŌĆō498. Springer, 2010.
[BLK13]
Adam Langley Ben Laurie and Emilia Kasper.
Certi’¼ücate transparency.
https://
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6962, 2013.
[BMP16]
Rachid El Bansarkhani, Mohamed Saied Emam Mohamed, and Albrecht Petzoldt.
Mqsas-a multivariate sequential aggregate signature scheme. In International Con-
ference on Information Security, pages 426ŌĆō439. Springer, 2016.
[BN07]
Mihir Bellare and Gregory Neven. Identity-based multi-signatures from rsa. In Cryp-
tographers├ó─é┼╣ Track at the RSA Conference, pages 145ŌĆō162. Springer, 2007.
[BNN07]
Mihir Bellare, Chanathip Namprempre, and Gregory Neven. Unrestricted aggregate
signatures. In ICALP, pages 411ŌĆō422, 2007.
[Bol03]
Alexandra Boldyreva. Threshold signatures, multisignatures and blind signatures based
on the gap-di’¼āe-hellman-group signature scheme. In Yvo Desmedt, editor, Public Key
Cryptography - PKC 2003, 6th International Workshop on Theory and Practice
in Public Key Cryptography, Miami, FL, USA, January 6-8, 2003, Proceedings,
volume 2567 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 31ŌĆō46. Springer, 2003.
40

[BP97]
Niko Bari─ć and Birgit P’¼ützmann. Collision-free accumulators and fail-stop signature
schemes without trees. In EUROCRYPT ŌĆÖ97, volume 1233 of LNCS, pages 480ŌĆō494,
1997.
[BR93]
Mihir Bellare and Phillip Rogaway. Random oracles are practical: A paradigm for de-
signing e’¼ācient protocols. In ACM Conference on Computer and Communications
Security, pages 62ŌĆō73, 1993.
[CD96]
Ronald Cramer and Ivan Damg├źrd. New generation of secure and practical rsa-based
signatures. In Annual International Cryptology Conference, pages 173ŌĆō185. Springer,
1996.
[CMS99]
Christian Cachin, Silvio Micali, and Markus Stadler. Computationally private infor-
mation retrieval with polylogarithmic communication. In Proceedings of the 17th In-
ternational Conference on Theory and Application of Cryptographic Techniques,
EUROCRYPTŌĆÖ99, page 402├ó─é┼×414, Berlin, Heidelberg, 1999. Springer-Verlag.
[Cra36]
Harald Cram├ā─Šr.
On the order of magnitude of the di’¼Ćerence between consecutive
prime numbers. Acta Arithmetica, 2(1):23ŌĆō46, 1936.
[CS00]
Ronald Cramer and Victor Shoup.
Signature schemes based on the strong rsa as-
sumption.
ACM Transactions on Information and System Security (TISSEC),
3(3):161ŌĆō185, 2000.
[CTg]
Certi’¼ücate transparency project. https://certificate.transparency.dev/.
[DKS16]
David Derler, Stephan Krenn, and Daniel Slamanig.
Signer-anonymous designated-
veri’¼üer redactable signatures for cloud-based data sharing. In International Confer-
ence on Cryptology and Network Security, pages 211ŌĆō227. Springer, 2016.
[DlVP97]
Charles-Jean De la Vall├®e Poussin. Recherches analytiques sur la th├®orie des nombres
premiers. Hayez, Imprimeur de lŌĆÖAcad├®mie royale de Belgique, 1897.
[DN94]
Cynthia Dwork and Moni Naor. An e’¼ācient existentially unforgeable signature scheme
and its applications. In Annual International Cryptology Conference, pages 234ŌĆō246.
Springer, 1994.
[DP08]
C├®cile Delerabl├®e and David Pointcheval. Dynamic threshold public-key encryption. In
David A. Wagner, editor, Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2008, 28th Annual
International Cryptology Conference, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August 17-21,
2008. Proceedings, volume 5157 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 317ŌĆō
334. Springer, 2008.
[DPP07]
C├®cile Delerabl├®e, Pascal Paillier, and David Pointcheval. Fully collusion secure dynamic
broadcast encryption with constant-size ciphertexts or decryption keys. In Tsuyoshi
Takagi, Tatsuaki Okamoto, Eiji Okamoto, and Takeshi Okamoto, editors, Pairing-
Based Cryptography - Pairing 2007, First International Conference, Tokyo,
41

Japan, July 2-4, 2007, Proceedings, volume 4575 of Lecture Notes in Computer
Science, pages 39ŌĆō59. Springer, 2007.
[DPSS15]
David Derler, Henrich C P├Čhls, Kai Samelin, and Daniel Slamanig. A general framework
for redactable signatures and new constructions. In ICISC 2015, pages 3ŌĆō19. Springer,
2015.
[FHPS13]
Eduarda SV Freire, Dennis Hofheinz, Kenneth G Paterson, and Christoph Striecks.
Programmable hash functions in the multilinear setting. In Advances in CryptologyŌĆō
CRYPTO 2013, pages 513ŌĆō530. Springer, 2013.
[Fia89]
Amos Fiat. Batch rsa. In Conference on the Theory and Application of Cryptology,
pages 175ŌĆō185. Springer, 1989.
[Fis03]
Marc Fischlin. The cramer-shoup strong-rsa signature scheme revisited. In Interna-
tional Workshop on Public Key Cryptography, pages 116ŌĆō129. Springer, 2003.
[FLS12]
Marc Fischlin, Anja Lehmann, and Dominique Schr├Čder. History-free sequential ag-
gregate signatures. In International Conference on Security and Cryptography for
Networks, pages 113ŌĆō130. Springer, 2012.
[GHR99]
Rosario Gennaro, Shai Halevi, and Tal Rabin. Secure hash-and-sign signatures without
the random oracle. In Jacques Stern, editor, Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT
ŌĆÖ99, International Conference on the Theory and Application of Cryptographic
Techniques, Prague, Czech Republic, May 2-6, 1999, Proceeding, volume 1592 of
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 123ŌĆō139. Springer, 1999.
[GMR88]
Sha’¼üGoldwasser, Silvio Micali, and Ronald L. Rivest. A digital signature scheme secure
against adaptive chosen-message attacks. SIAM J. Comput., 17(2):281ŌĆō308, 1988.
[Gol17]
Oded Goldreich. Introduction to Property Testing. Cambridge University Press, 2017.
[Gor18]
Sergey Gorbunov. How not to use aggregate signatures in your blockchain, 2018.
[GR06]
Craig Gentry and Zul’¼ükar Ramzan. Identity-based aggregate signatures. In PKC, 2006.
[GW11]
Craig Gentry and Daniel Wichs. Separating succinct non-interactive arguments from
all falsi’¼üable assumptions. In Proceedings of the 43rd ACM Symposium on Theory
of Computing, STOC 2011, pages 99ŌĆō108, 2011.
[HKW15]
Susan Hohenberger, Venkata Koppula, and Brent Waters. Universal signature aggrega-
tors. In Annual international conference on the theory and applications of crypto-
graphic techniques, pages 3ŌĆō34. Springer, 2015.
[HSW13]
Susan Hohenberger, Amit Sahai, and Brent Waters. Full domain hash from (leveled)
multilinear maps and identity-based aggregate signatures. In CRYPTO, 2013.
42

[HW18]
Susan Hohenberger and Brent Waters. Synchronized aggregate signatures from the rsa
assumption. In Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applications
of Cryptographic Techniques, pages 197ŌĆō229. Springer, 2018.
[IN83]
Kazuharu Itakura and K. Nakamura. A public-key cryptosystem suitable for digital
multisignatures. NEC J. Res. Dev., 71, 1983.
[JMSW02] Robert Johnson, David Molnar, Dawn Song, and David Wagner. Homomorphic signa-
ture schemes. In Cryptographers├ó─é┼╣ track at the RSA conference, pages 244ŌĆō262.
Springer, 2002.
[LLY13a]
Kwangsu Lee, Dong Hoon Lee, and Moti Yung. Sequential aggregate signatures made
shorter. In International Conference on Applied Cryptography and Network Secu-
rity, pages 202ŌĆō217. Springer, 2013.
[LLY13b]
Kwangsu Lee, Dong Hoon Lee, and Moti Yung. Sequential aggregate signatures with
short public keys: Design, analysis and implementation studies.
In International
Workshop on Public Key Cryptography, pages 423ŌĆō442. Springer, 2013.
[LMRS04] Anna Lysyanskaya, Silvio Micali, Leonid Reyzin, and Hovav Shacham. Sequential aggre-
gate signatures from trapdoor permutations. In Christian Cachin and Jan Camenisch,
editors, Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT 2004, International Conference
on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques, Interlaken, Switzer-
land, May 2-6, 2004, Proceedings, volume 3027 of Lecture Notes in Computer Sci-
ence, pages 74ŌĆō90. Springer, 2004.
[LOS+06]
Steve Lu, Rafail Ostrovsky, Amit Sahai, Hovav Shacham, and Brent Waters. Sequential
aggregate signatures and multisignatures without random oracles. In EUROCRYPT,
2006.
[MOR01]
Silvio Micali, Kazuo Ohta, and Leonid Reyzin. Accountable-subgroup multisignatures.
In Proceedings of the 8th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications
Security, pages 245ŌĆō254, 2001.
[MRV99]
Silvio Micali, Michael Rabin, and Salil Vadhan. Veri’¼üable random functions. In In
Proc. 40th IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS, pages
120ŌĆō130. IEEE, 1999.
[MSK02]
Shigeo Mitsunari, Ryuichi Sakai, and Masao Kasahara. A new traitor tracing. IE-
ICE transactions on fundamentals of electronics, communications and computer
sciences, 85(2):481ŌĆō484, 2002.
[MT07]
Di Ma and Gene Tsudik. Forward-secure sequential aggregate authentication. In 2007
IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SPŌĆÖ07), pages 86ŌĆō91. IEEE, 2007.
[Nev08]
Gregory Neven. E’¼ācient sequential aggregate signed data. In Annual International
Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques, pages
52ŌĆō69. Springer, 2008.
43

[Oka88]
Tatsuaki Okamoto. A digital multisignature scheme using bijective public-key cryp-
tosystems. ACM Transactions on Computer Systems (TOCS), 6(4):432ŌĆō441, 1988.
[OO99]
Kazuo Ohta and Tatsuaki Okamoto.
Multi-signature schemes secure against active
insider attacks. IEICE Transactions on Fundamentals of Electronics, Communi-
cations and Computer Sciences, 82(1):21ŌĆō31, 1999.
[Rab80]
Michael O Rabin. Probabilistic algorithm for testing primality. Journal of number
theory, 12(1):128ŌĆō138, 1980.
[RS09]
Markus R├╝ckert and Dominique Schr├Čder. Aggregate and veri’¼üably encrypted signa-
tures from multilinear maps without random oracles. In International Conference on
Information Security and Assurance, pages 750ŌĆō759. Springer, 2009.
[RSA78]
Ronald L. Rivest, Adi Shamir, and Leonard M. Adleman. A method for obtaining digital
signatures and public-key cryptosystems. Commun. ACM, 21(2):120ŌĆō126, 1978.
[SBZ01]
Ron Steinfeld, Laurence Bull, and Yuliang Zheng. Content extraction signatures. In
International Conference on Information Security and Cryptology, pages 285ŌĆō304.
Springer, 2001.
[Sha83]
Adi Shamir. On the generation of cryptographically strong pseudorandom sequences.
ACM Trans. Comput. Syst., 1(1):38ŌĆō44, 1983.
[Sha84]
Adi Shamir. Identity-based cryptosystems and signature schemes. In CRYPTO ŌĆÖ84,
volume 196 of LNCS, pages 47ŌĆō53, 1984.
[SS77]
Robert Solovay and Volker Strassen.
A fast monte-carlo test for primality.
SIAM
journal on Computing, 6(1):84ŌĆō85, 1977.
[Sud09]
Madhu Sudan. Probabilistically checkable proofs. Commun. ACM, 52(3):76ŌĆō84, 2009.
[Yek12]
Sergey Yekhanin. Locally decodable codes.
Found. Trends Theor. Comput. Sci.,
6(3):139ŌĆō255, 2012.
A
Locally Veri’¼üable Multi-Signer Aggregate Signature
In this section, we extend the concept of locally-veri’¼üable aggregate signatures de’¼üned in Section 4
to the multi-signer setting. Naturally, in the multi-signer setting, all the local and global aggre-
gation and veri’¼ücation algorithms would take as input a sequence of veri’¼ücation keys instead of a
single veri’¼ücation key now. Below we de’¼üne it formally.
Syntax.
A locally-veri’¼üable multi-signer aggregate signature scheme S for message space M
consists of the following polynomial time algorithms:
CRS(1╬╗) ŌåÆcrs. The CRS generation algorithm samples global parameters crs. All the remaining
algorithms take crs as input, and for ease of notation we do not write it explicitly.
44

Setup(1╬╗) ŌåÆ(vk, sk). The setup algorithm, on input the security parameter ╬╗, outputs a pair of
signing and veri’¼ücation keys (vk, sk).
Sign(sk, m) ŌåÆŽā. The signing algorithm takes as input a signing key sk and a message m ŌłłM, and
computes a signature Žā.
Verify(vk, m, Žā) ŌåÆ0/1. The veri’¼ücation algorithm takes as input a veri’¼ücation key vk, a message
m ŌłłM, and a signature Žā. It outputs a bit to signal whether the signature is valid or not.
Aggregate ({(vki, mi, Žāi)}i) ŌåÆbŽā/ŌŖź. The signature aggregation algorithm takes as input a sequence
of tuples, each containing a veri’¼ücation key vki, a message mi, a signature Žāi, and it outputs
either an aggregated signature bŽā or a special abort symbol ŌŖź.
AggVerify ({(vki, mi)}i, bŽā) ŌåÆ0/1. The aggregate verify algorithm takes as input a sequence of tu-
ples, each containing a veri’¼ücation key vki, a message mi, and it outputs a bit to signal
whether the aggregated signature bŽā is valid or not.
LocalOpen(bŽā, {(vki, mi)}iŌłł[Ōäō], j Ōłł[Ōäō]) ŌåÆauxj. The local opening algorithm takes as input an aggre-
gated signature bŽā, a sequence of tuples (each containing a veri’¼ücation key vki and a message
mi for i Ōłł[Ōäō]), and an index j Ōłł[Ōäō] where Ōäōis the length of the sequence. It outputs auxiliary
information auxj corresponding to the key-message pair (vki, mi).
LocalAggVerify(bŽā, vk, m, aux) ŌåÆ0/1. The local aggregate veri’¼ücation algorithm takes as input an
aggregated signature bŽā, a veri’¼ücation key vk, a message m, and auxiliary information aux. It
outputs a bit to signal whether the aggregate signature bŽā contains a signature for message m
under veri’¼ücation key vk, or not.
Correctness and Compactness.
A locally-veri’¼üable multi-signer aggregate signature scheme is
said to be correct and compact if for all ╬╗, Ōäō, N ŌłłN, parameters crs ŌåÉCRS(1╬╗), veri’¼ücation-signing
key pairs (vkj, skj) ŌåÉSetup(1╬╗) for j Ōłł[N], messages mi for i Ōłł[Ōäō], every key mapping function
ŽĆ : [Ōäō] ŌåÆ[N], and every signature Žāi ŌåÉSign(skŽĆ(i), mi) for i Ōłł[Ōäō], the following holds:
Correctness of signing. For all i Ōłł[Ōäō], Verify(vkŽĆ(i), mi, Žāi) = 1.
Correctness of aggregation. If bŽā = Aggregate
 {
 vkŽĆ(i), mi, Žāi

}i

, then
AggVerify
 {
 vkŽĆ(i), mi

}i, bŽā

= 1.
Correctness of local opening. For all k Ōłł[Ōäō], we have
Pr

LocalAggVerify
 bŽā, vkŽĆ(k), mk, LocalOpen(bŽā, {(vkŽĆ(i), mi)}i, k)

= 1.
Compactness of aggregation. |bŽā| Ōēżpoly(╬╗). That is, the size of an aggregated signature is a
’¼üxed polynomial in the security parameter ╬╗, independent of the number of aggregations Ōäō.
Compactness of opening. |aux| Ōēżpoly(╬╗). That is, the size of the auxiliary opening infor-
mation is a ’¼üxed polynomial in the security parameter ╬╗, independent of the number of
aggregations Ōäō.
45

Security.
Now for security, as in the single-signer setting, we have regular unforgeability, ag-
gregated unforgeability, and aggregated unforgeability with adversarial openings.
The regular
unforgeability and aggregated unforgeability with adversarial openings is de’¼üned identically in the
multi-signer setting (which the only di’¼Ćerence that the challenger also samples the global parame-
ters crs at the beginning of the experiments).
Below we simply provide the aggregated unforgeability property for the multi-signer setting for
completeness.
De’¼ünition A.1 (Aggregated Unforgeability). A multi-signer aggregate signature scheme (CRS,
Setup, Sign, Verify, Aggregate, AggVerify) is said to be a secure aggregate signature scheme if for
every admissible PPT attacker A, there exists a negligible function negl(┬Ę) such that for all ╬╗ ŌłłN,
the following holds
Pr

AggVerify
 {(vkŌłŚ
i , mŌłŚ
i )}iŌłł[Ōäō], bŽāŌłŚ
= 1 :
crs ŌåÉCRS(1╬╗), (vk, sk) ŌåÉSetup(1╬╗)
 {(vkŌłŚ
i , mŌłŚ
i )}iŌłł[Ōäō], bŽāŌłŚ
ŌåÉASign(sk,┬Ę)(1╬╗, vk)

Ōēżnegl(╬╗),
where A is admissible if there exists i Ōłł[Ōäō] such that vkŌłŚ
i = vk and mŌłŚ
i was not queried by A to the
Sign(sk, ┬Ę) oracle.
De’¼ünition A.2 (Static Aggregated Unforgeability). We say the aggregate signature scheme is
statically secure if the adversary in the above game is con’¼üned to make all of its message queries
{mi}iŌłł[q] and declare the challenge key-message tuples {(vkŌłŚ
i , mŌłŚ
i )}iŌłł[Ōäō] at the beginning of the game
(de’¼üned in De’¼ünition 4.3) before it receives the veri’¼ücation key vk.
Fully Public Openings.
As in the single-signer setting, we additionally consider the setting
where the local opening algorithm does not need an aggregate signature to provide an opening w.r.t.,
but only the sequence of key-message pairs. Thus, syntactically we have ŌĆö LocalOpen({(vki, mi)}iŌłł[Ōäō], j Ōłł
[Ōäō]) ŌåÆauxj.
A.1
Properties of (Aggregate) Signatures
An (aggregate) signature scheme can additionally satisfy following properties and/or su’¼Ćer from
the corresponding restriction.
Unique Signatures. A signature scheme (Setup, Sign, Verify) is said to be a unique signature
scheme if for all tuples (vk, m, Žā1, Žā2) where Žā1 ╠Ė= Žā2, Verify(vk, m, Žāi) = 1 for at most one i.
Single-Signer Aggregation. An aggregate signature scheme (Setup, Sign, Verify, Aggregate, AggVerify)
is said to be a single-signer aggregate signature if the aggregation algorithm and aggregate-
verify algorithms require all the veri’¼ücation keys to be the same. That is, the aggregation algo-
rithm only takes as input a single veri’¼ücation key vk, thus aggregation is only de’¼üned for a sin-
gle signer. Syntactically, the algorithms are modi’¼üed as follows ŌĆö Aggregate (vk, {(mi, Žāi)}i)
and AggVerify (vk, {mi}i, bŽā).
46

Multi-Hop vs. Single-Hop Aggregation. An aggregate signature scheme is said to be multi-
hop aggregatable if the Aggregate algorithm also takes as input an aggregated signature as
well. Syntactically, the algorithm is modi’¼üed as follows ŌĆö Aggregate ({(vki, mi, bŽāi)}i), where
each vki, mi are non-empty sequence of veri’¼ücation keys and messages, and bŽāi is a possibly
aggregated signature.
On the other hand, a single-hop aggregate signature requires the input signatures to the
Aggregate algorithm to be regular (non-aggregated) signatures.
Bounded Aggregation. For any q > 1, an aggregate signature scheme is said to be q-bounded
aggregatable if the Aggregate algorithm takes at most q message-signature pairs. That is,
Aggregate
 {(vki, mi, Žāi)}iŌłł[Ōäō]

is well de’¼üned as long as ŌäōŌēżq. To make the notion of bounded
aggregation non-trivial, it is essential to require that the size of aggregated signatures to be
independent of the bound q.
Sequential Aggregation. An aggregate signature scheme is said to be sequentially aggregatable
if the aggregation algorithm takes as input the signing key sk and a single (possibly aggre-
gated) signature bŽā instead of a sequence of signatures. Syntactically, the aggregated signing
algorithm works as follows.
Aggregate (sk, mŌĆ▓, {(vki, mi)}i, bŽā) ŌåÆbŽāŌĆ▓/ŌŖź. The sequential aggregation algorithm takes as in-
put a signing key sk, message mŌĆ▓, a sequence of tuples (each containing a veri’¼ücation
key vki and a message mi), and an input aggregated signature bŽā. It outputs either an
aggregated signature bŽāŌĆ▓ or a special abort symbol ŌŖź.
Typically, the aggregate veri’¼ücation algorithm requires the sequence of messages (m1, . . . , mŌäō)
(being veri’¼üed with respect to the aggregated signature bŽā) to be provided in the same order
as the one in which sequential aggregation was performed. That is, typically the veri’¼ücation
is sensitive to the sequence of aggregation. Now sequential aggregate signature schemes where
the veri’¼ücation is oblivious to the ordering are said to be unordered sequential aggregation
schemes.
B
Sampling via Random Oracles
Let H = {H╬╗}╬╗ be a family of hash functions where each h ŌłłH╬╗ takes 2╬╗ bits as input, and
outputs ╬╗-bits of output.
PrimeSeqH(1╬╗) ŌåÆsamp. It samples a hash function h ŌåÉH╬╗, and sets samp = h.
PrimeSampH(samp = h, m) ŌåÆem. It proceeds as follows:
1. Set count := 0, ’¼éag := false.
2. While ’¼éag = false:
(a) Let y := h(m || count) where m || count is interpreted as a 2╬╗ length bit string.
(b) Run PrimalityTest to check if 2╬╗ + y is a prime. If it is a prime, set ’¼éag := true and
em := 2╬╗ + y. Otherwise, set count := count + 1.
47

Output em.
Theorem B.1 (E’¼ācient and Adaptive Programmable Enumeration in ROM). If H╬╗ is modeled
as a random oracle, then (PrimeSeqH, PrimeSampH) satis’¼ües the following properties:
E’¼ācient Sampling. For every ╬╗ ŌłłN, m Ōłł{0, 1}╬╗, the prime sampling algorithm PrimeSampH
runs in expected polynomial time, where the probability is taken over the coins of setup
algorithm PrimeSeqH.
Adaptive Non-Colliding Prime Enumeration. For any PPT adversary A, there exists a neg-
ligible function negl(┬Ę), such that for all ╬╗ ŌłłN, we have that
Pr[PrimeSampH(samp, m1) = PrimeSampH(samp, m2) Ōł¦m1 ╠Ė= m2 :
samp ŌåÉPrimeSeqH(1╬╗)
(m1, m2) ŌåÉA(1╬╗, samp)

Ōēżnegl(╬╗)
Programmable Prime Enumeration. PrimeSampH behaves as a programmable random prime
oracle.
Proof. The proof of this theorem is similar to that of Theorem 5.1 with the modi’¼ücation that now
since H╬╗ is modeled as a random oracle, thus the resulting prime sequence enumerator can be
modeled as a ŌĆ£programmable" random prime oracle. Note that the adaptive non-colliding prime
enumeration property simply follows from collision resistance of the hash function, and we do not
need to model the hash function as a random oracle for that.
Remark B.2 (E’¼āciency of Sampling). We would like to point out that for our above samplers we
only prove e’¼āciency in the average case, thus the running time of sampler could be exponential in
the worst case. However, we could prove worst case running time to be polynomial as well if we
assume the well-known prime gap conjectures such as Cram├®rŌĆÖs conjecture [Cra36], or even weaker
variants of those conjectures which state that the prime gaps are bounded poly-logarithmically in
the prime value. Thus, by relying on such prime gap conjectures, we get that worst case running
time of sampling will also be polynomial.
In order to complete the argument, we would need
to make minor edit to the sampling procedure where instead of now evaluating the function on
m || 0, m || 1, m || 2, . . . and so on, we would simply evaluate the function on m and then ’¼ünd the
closest prime greater than or equal to the function evaluation on m. Thus, by prime gap conjectures,
this can always be computed in time poly(╬╗).
48

