Low Communication Complexity Protocols,
Collision Resistant Hash Functions and Secret
Key-Agreement Protocols
Shahar P. Cohen
and Moni Naor(B)
Department of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics,
Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel
{shahar.cohen,moni.naor}@weizmann.ac.il
Abstract. We study communication complexity in computational set-
tings where bad inputs may exist, but they should be hard to ’¼ünd for
any computationally bounded adversary.
We de’¼üne a model where there is a source of public randomness but
the inputs are chosen by a computationally bounded adversarial par-
ticipant after seeing the public randomness. We show that breaking the
known communication lower bounds of the private coins model in this
setting is closely connected to known cryptographic assumptions. We
consider the simultaneous messages model and the interactive commu-
nication model and show that for any non trivial predicate (with no
redundant rows, such as equality):
1. Breaking the ╬®(ŌłÜn) bound in the simultaneous message case or the
╬®(log n) bound in the interactive communication case, implies the
existence of distributional collision-resistant hash functions (dCRH).
This is shown using techniques from Babai and Kimmel [BK97]. Note
that with a CRH the lower bounds can be broken.
2. There are no protocols of constant communication in this preset
randomness settings (unlike the plain public randomness model).
The other model we study is that of a stateful ŌĆ£free talkŌĆØ, where par-
ticipants can communicate freely before the inputs are chosen and may
maintain a state, and the communication complexity is measured only
afterwards. We show that e’¼ācient protocols for equality in this model
imply secret key-agreement protocols in a constructive manner. On the
other hand, secret key-agreement protocols imply optimal (in terms of
error) protocols for equality.
1
Introduction
What does a lower bound mean if it is not feasible to ’¼ünd the bad inputs? In
other words, can we bypass it, if we assume that the choice of inputs is done by
Research supported in part by grants from the Israel Science Foundation (no. 2686/20)
and by the Simons Foundation Collaboration on the Theory of Algorithmic Fairness.
The second author is incumbent of the Judith Kleeman Professorial Chair.
The full version of this paper is available at ia.cr/2022/312.
c
ŌāØInternational Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
Y. Dodis and T. Shrimpton (Eds.): CRYPTO 2022, LNCS 13509, pp. 252ŌĆō281, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15982-4_9

Low Communication Complexity Protocols
253
a process that is computationally limited? In this work we study this issue in
the setting of communication complexity.
The study of communication complexity deals with proving bounds on the
amount of communication that is required to perform certain tasks when the
input is separated: two parties, Alice and Bob, have as inputs x ŌłłX and y ŌłłY
respectively; how many bits do they have to send each other (as a function of
|X| and |Y |) for computing the value of a function f(x, y)? An answer for such a
question depends, of course, on the exact model details: Do Alice and Bob have
any limitation in the communication? Do they communicate directly or through
a third party? What predicates f are they trying to compute? See Kushilevitz
and Nisan [KN96] and Rao and Yehudayo’¼Ć[RY20] for extensive background on
communication complexity.
There are several models of communication that di’¼Ćer mainly on two proper-
ties: whether the strategy of the participants can be probabilistic and the exact
communication settings (network layout). The participants of those models do
not have a bound on their running time, however, they are required to be correct1
for every input in the space.
When the participants are allowed to be probabilistic there is an important
distinction: whether they share common random bits (public coins) or not (pri-
vate coins). It is important to note that the random bits (in both options) and
the problemŌĆÖs inputs (x and y) are independent. This can be seen as uniform
random bits that are chosen after the (worst-case) input was chosen.
By de’¼ünition, the private coins model is no stronger than the public coins
model and indeed some tasks can be done in the latter but cannot be done in
the former with the same communication complexity (see below). On the other
hand, the private coins model may be considered more realistic, where there is
no assumption of independent public random string.
However, both the public and private coins models are known to be ŌĆśbetterŌĆÖ
than the deterministic model in the sense that they have more e’¼ācient protocols
in terms of the communication complexity: for instance, as proved by Yao, the
deterministic communication complexity of many predicates is ╬®(n) (Alice and
Bob can do nothing better than just sending their full inputs), while in the prob-
abilistic world there is quite a lot to be done. Equality is a prominent example,
with complexity of ╬ś(log n) for the private coins model and ╬ś(1) for the public
coins model.
We examine another relaxation that can help us: limiting all parties, including
the one who selects the inputs (the adversary), to a computationally bounded
world. We will not require that Alice and Bob be correct for every input in
the space, but only on inputs that are chosen by a computationally bounded
adversary. Note that the new de’¼ünition is by nature relevant only to probabilistic
algorithms.
Considering a polynomially bounded adversary raises the question of whether
there are bene’¼üts from di’¼Ćerent computational hardness assumptions: can we re-
1 For the probabilistic version they are required to succeed with constant high prob-
ability.

254
S. P. Cohen and M. Naor
duce the communication complexity of protocols by assuming that certain tasks
cannot be performed e’¼āciently? That is, given that Alice and Bob in our new
de’¼ünition do not have to be correct for every input in the input space, a compu-
tational hardness assumption can be used for proving that no e’¼ācient adversary
can ’¼ünd bad inputs with non-negligible probability.
Back to the relationship between the public and private coins models: we
propose a new model that is, in general, more powerful than the private coins
but still realistic. Also, in contrast to the above mentioned models, our model
is computational ŌĆō the participantsŌĆÖ running time is bounded by some poly(╬╗)
where ╬╗ is the security parameter. In our model, there is a public random string
but there is an additional adversarial participant that chooses the inputs depend-
ing on the public random string, it can be seen as a public random string that
is ŌĆś’¼üxedŌĆÖ in advance and therefore we called it preset public coins model. See
De’¼ünition 2.7 for formal speci’¼ücation.
The two communication patterns we consider are:
Simultaneous Messages Model (SM). Alice and Bob are given x and y
respectively and should compute a function f(x, y) but without communicat-
ing with each other. Instead, each one sends a message to a third party (a
referee) who calculates f(x, y) given the messages from Alice and Bob.
Interactive Communication Model. Alice and Bob get their inputs x and y
respectively and can communicate with each other without any limitations
on the number of rounds.
In both settings, the communication complexity measure is the total length of
the messages sent by Alice and Bob.
Stateful Preprocessing Communication. The second type of model we consider is
where the communication complexity matters only at some critical period and
the question is whether we can get very succinct protocols. The two parties can
talk freely beforehand. At some point the action starts, they receive their inputs
and need to decide with little communication the result.
In the SM model we consider a variation that di’¼Ćers by two properties:
Free talk. A protocol with free talk is one where Alice and Bob communicate also
before getting their inputs. The messages during the free talk phase (before
the inputs are chosen) do not count in the communication complexity of the
protocol. Alice and Bob maintain (secret) states afterwards. However the
adversary sees the whole communication and can use it when choosing the
inputs.
Rushing adversary. The inputs are chosen by a computationally bounded
adversary depending on the public discussion it witnesses in the preprocessing
phase. A rushing adversary can choose BobŌĆÖs input at the ŌĆślast momentŌĆÖ: The
adversary ’¼ürst chooses the input of Alice depending on the public random
string and after Alice sends her message to the referee the adversary chooses
the input of Bob depending on both the preprocessing transcript and on and
AliceŌĆÖs message.

Low Communication Complexity Protocols
255
Note: while allowing ŌĆ£rushingŌĆØ gives the adversary more power, it is not an
unreasonable model, e.g. in a sketching environment, when the adversary
sees how one party ŌĆśsketchedŌĆÖ its input and may then select the inputs to the
other one. We do not know whether we need this power in order to get the
result that very succinct protocols imply secret key agreement.
1.1
Cryptographic Primitives
We discuss a computationally bounded world. We assume that all parties have
limited resources (especially at runtime). A way to express those limits is by
cryptographic primitives (see the next examples).
Necessity of Primitives. One of the aims of research in foundations of cryptog-
raphy is to ’¼ünd out which cryptographic primitives are essential and su’¼ācient
for which tasks. Similarly, it is valuable to know whether certain primitives on
their own cannot help us achieve a certain goal.
In this paper we prove several implications of the form that the existence of
communication protocols with certain properties entails the existence of certain
primitives. In other words, in order to design succinct protocols in those models
we must be using somewhere in the protocol primitives of a certain kind.
1.2
Cryptographic Hash Functions
A hash function is one that maps values from a large domain to a smaller
range. One of the most basic cryptographic objects is a hash function with
some hardness property. For instance, a family of hash functions H, is collision
resistant if for a random h ŌłłR H it is hard to ’¼ünd two inputs x ╠Ė= y that collide
(h(x) = h(y)).
For such a function, for any two inputs that were chosen by a computation-
ally bounded adversary, we know that w.h.p., h(x) = h(y)
=ŌćÆ
x = y. This
means that the function preserves some relation between its inputs: The equal-
ity predicate is (w.h.p.) preserved also after the values were compressed by h.
Moreover, since the function is collision resistant, that property holds for any
(x, y) chosen by a computationally bounded adversary knowing h.
This notion can be generalized in several directions:
1. More relaxed hardness requirements can be de’¼üned. The weaker the de’¼ünition
the more hope we have to construct it from minimal assumptions.
2. We can extend the de’¼ünitions to include random algorithms: functions that
get also random bits and output correct values w.h.p.2.
3. We can extend the de’¼ünitions to hash functions that preserve more properties
and not just the equality predicate.
We discuss the last two points in the section below.
2 The probability is over the choices of the random bits.

256
S. P. Cohen and M. Naor
1.3
Adversarially Robust Property-Preserving Hash Functions
Consider a predicate P : U ├Ś U ŌåÆ{0, 1} for a universe U = {0, 1}n. Let
x, y ŌłłU and we want to compute P(x, y), but we cannot have both x, y on
the same machine (say, for some storage reasons). A natural approach for this
issue is using sketching: By using sketches we get shorter strings and it is easier
to get both (sketched) values on the same machine. Of course, computing P
on sketched values may be impossible in terms of information, so we relax the
correctness requirement: the process may fail (compute a wrong value) with at
most a negligible probability3.
Hash functions as above, that allow us to compute a predicate given the
hashed values, are called property-preserving hash functions (hereafter PPH).
We examine PPH in an adversarial environment, that is, the predicate should
be computed correctly w.h.p. also for values chosen by an adversary. Such hash
functions are called adversarially robust PPH. The more access to the hash
function given to the adversary the more robust the PPH is.
The study of adversarially robust property-preserving hash functions was
initiated by Boyle et al. [BLV18]. It can be seen as a special case of the model
introduced by Mironov et al. [MNS11] who initiated the study of the adversarial
sketch model (here the participants also get the input online). That notion is
similar to the SM model except for the di’¼Ćerences:
1. The allowed error probability in communication complexity is a (small) con-
stant instead of negligible in PPHs.
2. The parties in the SM model are allowed to be randomized.
3. The PPHs model is computational.
Our model bridges some of the gaps and we will show the connection between
the models. Note that the preset public coins SM model is a generalization of
the PPHs model in the sense that the participants are allowed to be randomized.
In this regards it is closer to the model of Mironov et al. [MNS11].
1.4
Secret Key Agreement
A secret key agreement (SKA) is a protocol where two parties with no prior
common information agree on a secret key. The key has to be secret in the
sense that no probabilistic polynomial time adversary given the full transcript
of the communication between Alice and Bob can compute it with non-negligible
probability (more accurately, distinguish it from a random string). That notion
is de’¼üned formally in De’¼ünition 2.19.
We will show that certain low communication protocols imply the existence
of SKA by showing a construction of SKA from those protocols.
3 The probabilities are over the sampling of a hash function among the functions
family.

Low Communication Complexity Protocols
257
1.5
Our Results
We consider preset public coins communication complexity models and prove
that the lower bounds proved for the private coins model cannot be broken in
our computational model without assuming the existence of distributional CRHs
(dCRH is a hash function where uniformly random collisions cannot be found by
a bounded adversary w.h.p., see De’¼ünition 2.16) It is known that dCRHs exist
only if one-way functions exist and there is an oracle separation between them
(i.e. there are no black-box constructions of dCRHs from one-way functions).
A non-trivial predicate is one with no redundant rows and columns (see
De’¼ünition 2.1)
Theorem (informal, see Theorems 3.2 and 3.14). In the preset public coins Simul-
taneous Message model: for any non-trivial predicate, protocols with communi-
cation complexity o(ŌłÜn) imply the existence of dCRHs (in the sense that a
dCRH can be constructed from the protocol).
In the interactive model: The same is true for c(n) = o(log n).
Gap from Upper Bound. We note that such succinct protocols are achievable
using a CRH. Closing the gap between CRH and dCRH is left as an open problem
(see conclusions).
Consider the free talk model, where two parties communicate and may have
a secret state as a result, before the inputs are chosen based on an eavesdropper
adversary who has access to the communication but not to the secret states. If
secret key agreement protocols exist, then we can get the power of the public
coins model: we can construct a protocol for the equality predicate with error
probability bounded by 2ŌłÆc where c is the communication complexity.
In the other direction, nearly optimal protocols imply a secret key agreement:
Theorem (informal, see Theorem 5.2). In the stateful free talk model, the exis-
tence of a protocol of complexity c(n) for equality with failure probability
bounded by ╬Ą Ōēż2ŌłÆ0.7c against a rushing adversary implies the existence of
a secret key agreement protocol.
Again here there are gaps between the possibility and impossibility results. For
the implication we do need a low error protocol (with respect to the commu-
nication complexity) and also we do not know whether a rushing adversary is
essential.
The various implications we showed are summarized in Table 1.
On the other hand, regardless of assumptions, constant communication pro-
tocols cannot exist in our model. This is in contrast to the public coins model,
where there are protocols of O(1) communication even in the SM model (e.g. for
the equality predicate).
Theorem (informal, see Theorem 4.1). In the interactive communication model,
protocols for any non trivial predicate, of communication complexity O(log log n)
bits are not secure against an adversary with running time poly(n).

258
S. P. Cohen and M. Naor
Table 1. Summary of Implications and Results
Information-Theoretic
Lower Bound
Comput. Bounded World:
Breaking The Bound
Possible Using
Implies
Stateless
SM
╬®(ŌłÜn)
CRH
dCRH
Interactive
╬®(log n)
CRH
dCRH
Stateful
(Rushing Adv)
SM
╬®(n)
SKA
For Equality:
SKA*
* Holds only for near optimal protocols.
1.6
Related Work
Communication Complexity
The study of communication complexity was initiated by Yao [Yao79] who intro-
duced the SM private coins model and asked what is the complexity of the equal-
ity predicate in this model. The problem was solved by Newman and Szegedy
[NS96] who provided the ╬®(ŌłÜn) tight lower bound. It was also solved, using
di’¼Ćerent and simpler techniques, by Babai and Kimmel [BK97]4 using a combi-
natorial proof, and by Bottesch et al. [BGK15] using information theory5.
Babai and KimmelsŌĆÖs result is more general and they actually proved the
lower bound not only to the equality predicate but to any non-redundant pred-
icate (see De’¼ünition 2.1). Moreover, their technique proved to be useful in more
models: Ben-Sasson and Maor [BM15] applied this technique also for the inter-
active model and proved that for any non redundant function, any private coins
protocol requires communication complexity of at least ╬®(log n) (see proof for
the equality predicate in Kushilevitz and Nisan [KN96]).
Although the above mentioned results are in the information-theoretic world
(can be seen as an unbounded adversary), Naor and Rothblum [NR09] introduced
and studied a computational model in order to study online memory checking
algorithms: The consecutive messages model where the public coins are chosen
after the adversary chooses x (the input for Alice). They adapted this technique
and showed that breaking the mentioned information-theoretic ╬®(ŌłÜn) lower
bound in their computational model is possible if and only if one-way functions
exist. At ’¼ürst glance one can think that their model is very close to our preset
public coins SM model. However, important details di’¼Ćer: For instance, the fact
that x (AliceŌĆÖs input) does not depend on the public random string.
Public Coins vs. Private Coins. In certain ways our model lies between the
public and private coins ones. Therefore, it is worth pointing out the possible
4 See in [BK97] also the similar proof of Bourgain and Wigderson.
5 Bottesch et al. actually discuss quantum variants of the SM model and give the
simpler proof for our classical case as a warm-up.

Low Communication Complexity Protocols
259
gap between them. For the interactive communication settings, Newman [New91]
proved that the gap can be at most O(log n) additively. It is tight, since the
equality predicate can be computed by protocols of O(1) communication in the
public coins model but requires ╬ś(log n) bits in the private coins model.
In the SM model, as mentioned, the gap may be much larger: the equality
predicate can be computed using O(1) bits in the public coins model, but in the
private coins model ╬®(ŌłÜn) bits are required.
Settings Where Worst-Case Inputs are Hard to Find
One area where computationally bounded choices of inputs was considered is
error correcting codes. Here assuming the channel is computationally bounded
may help and better rates than those achievable by codes for worst-case errors are
possible. Such works were done by Lipton [Lip94] and Micali et al. [MPSW10].
These constructions required a trusted setup with a key that should not leak.
Grossman et al. [GHY20] suggested ŌĆ£goodŌĆØ uniquely decodable codes for the
computationally bounded channel with transparent setup. Grossman et al. relied
on strong cryptographic assumptions to construct a code better than codes for
worst-case errors.
Harsha et al. [HIKNV04] studied tradeo’¼Ćs between communication complex-
ity and time complexity and described Boolean functions with a strong commu-
nication vs. runtime tradeo’¼Ć.
1.7
Technical Overview
Babai and KimmelŌĆÖs Characterizing Multiset. We will use the technique of Babai
and Kimmel for proving connections between the communication complexity
and cryptographic primitives in both models (SM and interactive). They proved
that in the SM model, AliceŌĆÖs behavior can be characterized by a relatively
small multiset of messages. Ben-Sasson and Maor expanded it for the interactive
model and proved that AliceŌĆÖs behavior can be characterized by a multiset of
deterministic strategies.
We use those observations and show that the adversary can use the charac-
terizing multisets to ’¼ünd bad inputs for Alice and Bob. That is, we construct
a function that for any x (AliceŌĆÖs input) generates a characterizing multiset of
the behavior of Alice for this x. We claim that an adversary who can break the
security of this function, can ’¼ünd bad inputs for the protocol. On the other direc-
tion, if such a protocol exists it implies the existence of a certain cryptographic
primitive.
In more details: We show a construction of a function that for an AliceŌĆÖs input
(x ŌłłX) outputs a multiset that characterizes AliceŌĆÖs behaviour. We claim that
a collision in such function induces bad inputs for the protocol as it implies two
inputs that make Alice behaves similar. That is, the correctness of the protocol
implies the security of the function. However, the construction is probabilistic
and the function does not output a characterizing multiset for every inputs but
only for at most every input. Hence, it may not be collision resistant but only

260
S. P. Cohen and M. Naor
one-way function. Moreover, we show it also a distributional collision resistant
since it outputs a characterizing for at most every input.
2
Models and Preliminaries
2.1
Model De’¼ünition
Let f be a predicate that Alice and bob would like to compute. For a predicate
f to be interesting we may assume that the f has no redundancy:
De’¼ünition 2.1 (Non-Redundant Predicate). Predicate f : X ├Ś Y ŌåÆ{0, 1}
is non-redundant if there are no two identical rows or two identical columns in
the truth matrix. In other words, ŌłĆx1 ╠Ė= x2 : Ōłāy s.t. f(x1, y) ╠Ė= f(x2, y) and for
ŌłĆy1 ╠Ė= y2 as well.
Also, we discuss only predicates where their non-redundancy can be ŌĆśprovenŌĆÖ
or found e’¼āciently:
De’¼ünition 2.2 (E’¼āciently Separable Predicate). Let f : X ├Ś Y ŌåÆ{0, 1}
be a non-redundant predicate, then f is e’¼āciently separable if there exists PPTM
M that ’¼ünds the element promised by De’¼ünition 2.1. That is ŌłĆx1 ╠Ė= x2 ŌłłX:
Pr
yŌåÉM(x1,x2)[f(x1, y) ╠Ė= f(x2, y)] = 1 ŌłÆnegl(n)
and similarly for ŌłĆy1 ╠Ė= y2 ŌłłY as well.
Note 2.3. It is not clear that a Non-Redundant Predicate that is not E’¼āciently
Separable implies the existence of one-way functions. In fact, it seems that hard
problems in NP (ŌĆ£PessilandŌĆØ) already implies the existence of such predicates,
and hence as far as we know it is not a su’¼ācient assumption for mounting
meaningful cryptography.
The only speci’¼üc predicate we discuss is the equality predicate, EQ(x, y) =
11{x=y}. For the equality predicate it is easy to see that both De’¼ünitions 2.1
and 2.2 hold.
Now, we de’¼üne the communication layouts:
De’¼ünition 2.4 (Interactive Communication Model). Alice and Bob are
given x and y respectively and should compute some function f. They may send
each other messages without any limit (but the total number of bits sent is the
complexity).
De’¼ünition 2.5 (Simultaneous Messages (SM) Model). In the simultane-
ous messages model, Alice and Bob are given x and y respectively and should
compute some function f without communicating with each other. Instead, each
one sends a message to a third party (a referee) who calculates f(x, y) given the
messages from Alice and Bob.
Following Babai and Kimmel we assume without loss of generality that the
referee is deterministic.

Low Communication Complexity Protocols
261
Fact 2.6. In the SM model there exist protocols for the equality predicate of
complexity O(ŌłÜn). The protocols found independently by Ambainis, Babai and
Kimmel, Naor and Newman; see [BK97] for references.
Fact 2.6 is an example of the possible gap between probabilistic and deterministic
protocols in the SM model because the equality predicate is non-redundant and
because of the following well known fact:
Fact. In the SM model, the deterministic communication complexity of any non-
redundant predicate is ╬®(n).
Now, we are ready to de’¼üne our model formally, in the above described
communication layouts. Recall that our model is computational. That is, the
participantsŌĆÖ running time is bounded by some poly(╬╗) for some security param-
eter ╬╗ = poly(n), itŌĆÖs important especially for the adversarial participant. That
is, any PPTM run time is bounded by poly(╬╗).
De’¼ünition 2.7 (Preset Public Coins).
A protocol for a function f in the
preset public coins is de’¼üned by the following game: Let Alice and Bob be PPTMs
with running time poly(╬╗).
1. A public uniform random string rpub is sampled6.
2. The adversary sees rpub and chooses (x, y) ŌłłX ├Ś Y .
3. Alice and Bob get (x, rpub) and (y, rpub) respectively.
4. Alice and Bob send message(s) (optionally using private coins) in order to
compute some target function.
5. Optionally: More steps that depend on the communication settings. For
instance, in the SM model the referee steps in here.
We say that a protocol is ╬Ą-secure in this model if for every PPTM adversary
Adv with running time poly(╬╗) the probability that the computation of Alice
and Bob will be correct is at least 1 ŌłÆ╬Ą:
Pr
rpub
(x,y)ŌåÉAdv(rpub)
Alice and Bob private coins
[Protocol Fails] Ōēż╬Ą
Ampli’¼ücation. The usual requirements in communication complexity is for ╬Ą =
1/3 and then to argue for ampli’¼ücation by repetition. Here we have to be a bit
more careful, since the correctness requirement is computational. However, we
know that for games of a certain structure we get parallel ampli’¼ücation: Bellare
et al. [BIN97] showed that parallel repetition of computationally sound protocols
doesnŌĆÖt always lower the error as one may expect. However, they proved that
for three-round protocols the error does go down exponentially fast7 as in the
information-theoretic case.
A protocol in our model can be evaluated in the following 3 rounds:
6 Can be generalized to a sample from any known e’¼ācient distribution.
7 See Canetti et al. [CHS05] for better parameters.

262
S. P. Cohen and M. Naor
1. The prover chooses the public random string.
2. The adversary chooses the inputs of Alice and Bob.
3. The prover chooses AliceŌĆÖs and BobŌĆÖs private random string.
Note 2.8. AliceŌĆÖs and BobŌĆÖs algorithms are public and since they donŌĆÖt have
any secret state or secret input they can be simulated (also by the adversarial
participant). It is a core fact when we are using the technique of Babai and
Kimmel in computational settings in the proofs of Theorems 3.2 and 3.14 and
Theorem 4.1.
2.2
Free Talk Model
We consider a variation to the SM model where Alice and Bob are allowed to
communicate freely in a preprocessing phase, before the inputs are chosen:
Free talk. Free talk is a ŌĆśfreeŌĆÖ communication that Alice and Bob can have before
the inputs are chosen by the adversary. Alice and Bob can generate states
(possibly secret) in the free talk phase. Those states can be used afterward
to reduce the communication complexity.
However, the adversary is also stronger, in two ways:
Free Talk Eavesdropping. The transcript of the free talk phase is known to
the adversary and it may choose the inputs depending also on it.
Rushing. Rushing adversary decides BobŌĆÖs input at the ŌĆślast momentŌĆÖ: Rushing
adversary chooses the input of Bob after Alice produces its message. That is,
’¼ürst AliceŌĆÖs input is chosen and Alice sends its message, and afterwards, BobŌĆÖs
input is chosen depending on AliceŌĆÖs message and Bob sends its message.
De’¼ünition 2.9 (SM Preset Public Coins With Stateful Free Talk and
Rushing Adversary). A protocol for a function f in the SM Preset Public
Coins With stateful free talk and rushing adversary is de’¼üned by the following
game: Let Alice and Bob be PPTMs with running time poly(╬╗).
1. Alice and Bob toss coins and communicate in order to generate their (possibly
secret) states ŽäA and ŽäB respectively.
2. The adversary sees their full communication (but not their internal states ŽäA
and ŽäB) and sets AliceŌĆÖs input x ŌłłX.
3. Alice (that has ŽäA as her internal state) gets x and sends a message mA to
the referee.
4. The adversary sees mA and chooses BobŌĆÖs input y ŌłłY , optionally depending
on mA and the free talkŌĆÖs transcript.
5. Bob (that has ŽäB as his internal state) gets y and sends a message mB to the
referee.
6. The referee, as a function of mA and mB, computes the target predicate.

Low Communication Complexity Protocols
263
To simplify the description we assume, without loss of generality, that Alice and
Bob are probabilistic only in the ’¼ürst step. (This is wlog since they can toss
coins in the ’¼ürst step and save them in their private states for later use.)
In the stateful model we consider a scenario with a ŌĆśpatientŌĆÖ adversary: there
are multiple sessions between Alice and Bob and the (rushing) adversary can
choose one session to attack among them, after seeing the message Alice choose.
De’¼ünition 2.10 (Stateful Free Talk ╬Ą-Secure Protocol).
We say that a
protocol is ╬Ą-secure in the stateful model if for every PPTM adversary Adv with
running time poly(╬╗) who involved in poly(╬╗) sessions and chooses among them
one session as the de’¼üning one (after seeing AliceŌĆÖs message) the probability that
the computation of Alice and Bob will be correct for the chosen session is at least
1 ŌłÆ╬Ą.
2.3
Notation
Messages Space. Denote by MA and MB AliceŌĆÖs and BobŌĆÖs messages spaces. In
the interactive model we consider AliceŌĆÖs and BobŌĆÖs deterministic strategies,
every strategy is represented by a rooted binary tree of depth c (the total
communication): The protocol begins in the root, each vertex is owned by one
party who chooses one of the children and informs the other party by sending
a bit. Finally, the leaves represent the protocolŌĆÖs result. We denote the set of
deterministic strategies of Alice and Bob by SA and SB respectively.
Private random string. Denote by rA ŌłłRA the private random string of
Alice.
Public random string. Denote by rpub ŌłłRpub the public random string in
the protocol (it is given also to the adversary).
Secret State. When Alice and Bob have secret states we denote them by ŽäA
and ŽäB respectively.
Participant. In the SM model, for a public random string rpub denote the
strategy of Alice by Arpub : X├ŚRA ŌåÆMA and Bob by Brpub : X├ŚRB ŌåÆMB.
When the public random string rpub is clear from the context we may omit
the subscript. (When Alice and Bob have a secret state we denote Alice and
Bob as a function that gets a secret state Žä instead of private random string).
Referee. In the SM model denote the referee by a function Žürpub : MA ├Ś MB ŌåÆ
{0, 1} for a public random string rpub or Žü when rpub is clear from the context.
Communication Complexity. Denote the length of the total communication
by c = c(n, ╬╗).
Protocol. We denote the protocol by ŽĆ, and ŽĆ(x, y) denotes running the protocol
on inputs x and y.
2.4
Probability
To measure distance between two distributions we use the total variation dis-
tance:

264
S. P. Cohen and M. Naor
De’¼ünition 2.11 (Statistical Distance). Let D1 and D2 be two distributions
and D(E) be the probability of event E under the distribution D.
╬ö(D1, D2) =
max
Event E |D1(E) ŌłÆD2(E)|
We use in our proofs the following concentration lemma:
Lemma 2.12. Let X1, X2, . . . , Xt be mutually independent random variables
where E[Xi] = 0 and |Xi| Ōēż1. Let S = 1
t
t
i=1 Xi then
Pr[S > ╬┤] < eŌłÆ╬┤2t/2
which is a rephrasing of the following Cherno’¼Ćbound:
Theorem 2.13 (Cherno’¼ĆBound [AS08, Theorem A.1.16]). Let X1, . . . ,
Xt be mutually independent random variables where E[Xi] = 0 and |Xi| Ōēż1 and
let S = t
i=1 Xi. Then
Pr[S > a] < eŌłÆa2/2t
2.5
Collision Resistant Hash Functions
A collision resistant hash function (CRH) is a function that any e’¼ācient algo-
rithm has at most a negligible probability of a collision:
De’¼ünition 2.14 (CRH).
Let a functions family H be a family of functions
that (1) compress (2) are computable in polynomial time. H is a family of CRHs
if for every polynomial p(┬Ę) for every PPTM Adv and large enough ╬╗,
Pr
hŌłłH
(x,y)ŌåÉAdv(h)
[x ╠Ė= y Ōł¦h(x) = h(y)] <
1
p(╬╗)
Note that, the output of the function cannot be too small with respect to the
security parameter. Otherwise, collisions can be found easily by trying su’¼ācient
inputs.
Simon [Sim98] showed that a CRH cannot be built from black-box one-way
functions. Since one-way functions are existential equivalent to a lot of basic
cryptographic primitives, we know that also they cannot be black-box used to
construct CRHs. For an example, see Wee [Wee07] who ruled out constructions
for statistically hiding commitments with low round complexity that are based
only on black-box one-way functions.
Distributional Collision Resistant Hash Functions Distributional colli-
sion resistant hash functions (dCRH) are functions where it is hard for any
adversary to generate collisions that are close to random collisions. We ’¼ürst
have to de’¼üne an ideal collision ’¼ünder:

Low Communication Complexity Protocols
265
De’¼ünition 2.15 (Ideal Collision Finder COL). The random function COL
gets a description of a hash function h and outputs (x, xŌĆ▓) s.t. x is uniformly
random and xŌĆ▓ is uniformly random from hŌłÆ1(x). Note that:
1. The marginal distribution of x and xŌĆ▓ is the same: x and xŌĆ▓ are uniformly
random (but not independent).
2. It is possible that x = xŌĆ▓.
That notion of distributional collision resistance hash functions is due to
Dubrov and Ishai [DI06]. However, Bitansky et al. [BHKY19] deviated from this
de’¼ünition and used a stronger de’¼ünition8. Since our results hold also for the
stronger de’¼ünition we will use it:
De’¼ünition 2.16 (dCRH). Let a functions family H be a family of functions
that (1) compress (2) are computable in polynomial time. H is a family of dis-
tributional CRHs if there exists some polynomial p(┬Ę) s.t. for every PPTM Adv,
and large enough ╬╗,
╬ö(COL(h), Adv(h)) Ōēź
1
p(╬╗)
where h ŌåÉH.
This de’¼ünition is a generalization of distributional one-way functions9 and hence
implies it. Furthermore, Bitansky et al. showed that dCRHs can be used for
applications that one-way functions arenŌĆÖt known to achieve (and are black-box
separated) [BHKY19].
Although the notion of dCRH is much weaker than CRH, as noted by Dubrov
and Ishai [DI06], the black-box separation result of Simon [Sim98] applied also for
dCRH: Its collision ’¼ünder is the same as COL in our de’¼ünition (De’¼ünition 2.15).
Simon proved that relative to COL one-way functions exist (although (d)CRHs
do not).
2.6
Adversarially Robust Property-Preserving Hash Functions
Here we de’¼üne the notion of adversarially robust property-preserving hash func-
tions. We follow Boyle et al.ŌĆÖs notion of direct-access robust property-preserving
hash functions:
De’¼ünition 2.17 (Direct-Access Robust PPHs). Let a functions family H
be a family of functions that (1) compress (2) are computable in polynomial time
and let Eval be a deterministic polynomial time algorithm. H (with Eval) is a
8 By switching the order of quanti’¼üers, they require one polynomial for any adversary
and not that for any adversary there exists a polynomial. See the comparison in
[BHKY19].
9 Functions where it is hard to sample uniformly from hŌłÆ1(h(x)) for random x. Such
functions are known to exist if and only if one-way functions exist [IL89]. (in contrast
to dCRH).

266
S. P. Cohen and M. Naor
family of Direct-Access Robust PPHs for a predicate P : X ├Ś X ŌåÆ{0, 1, ŌłŚ}10 if
for every polynomial p(┬Ę) for every PPTM Adv and large enough ╬╗,
Pr
hŌłłH
(x,y)ŌåÉAdv(h)
[P(x, y) ╠Ė= ŌłŚŌł¦P(x, y) ╠Ė= Eval(h, h(x), h(y)) ╠Ė= P(x, y)] <
1
p(╬╗)
2.7
Secret Key Agreement and Its Ampli’¼ücation
In a secret key agreement protocol two participants who do not have a common
secret, but each one has its own source of randomness, both output a value (the
secret). The participantsŌĆÖ output has to satisfy two properties: it should be the
same value for the two participants (agreement), and it has to be unknown to
any e’¼ācient observer (secrecy). We follow the de’¼ünition of Holenstein [Hol05]:
De’¼ünition 2.18 ( (╬▒, ╬▓)-Secret Bit Agreement (SBA)). An e’¼ācient two
party protocol without input (aside from the security parameter ╬╗), with one bit
output for each participant b and bŌĆ▓ respectively where b, bŌĆ▓ Ōłł{0, 1} is an (╬▒, ╬▓)-
secret bit agreement if
Pr[b = bŌĆ▓] Ōēź1 + ╬▒
2
and for every PPTM Adv with running time bounded by poly(╬╗)
Pr[Adv(Žä) = b | b = bŌĆ▓] Ōēż1 ŌłÆ╬▓
2
where Žä is the complete transcript of the protocol.
The previous de’¼ünition is a weaker notion of the usually desirable stronger
notion:
De’¼ünition 2.19 (Secret Key Agreement). (╬▒, ╬▓)-secret bit agreement is a
secret key agreement protocol if ╬▒ = 1 ŌłÆnegl(╬╗) and ╬▓ = 1 ŌłÆnegl(╬╗).
Holenstein [Hol06] proved when an (╬▒, ╬▓)-secret bit agreement can be ampli’¼üed
e’¼āciently to a secret key agreement:
Theorem 2.20 ([Hol06, Corollary 7.5]). Let e’¼āciently computable functions
╬▒(╬╗), ╬▓(╬╗), be given such that
1 ŌłÆ╬▒
1 + ╬▒ < ╬▓
Let ŽĢ = max(2,
8
log(
╬▓(1+╬▒)
1ŌłÆ╬▒ )) and ╬│ =
1
log(1+((1ŌłÆ╬▒)/(1+╬▒))ŽĢ), and assume that
ŽĢ┬Ę24╬│
╬▒
Ōłłpoly(╬╗). If there exists an (╬▒, ╬▓)-secret bit agreement protocol for all but
’¼ünitely many k, then there exists a computationally secure key agreement.
Note that a secret key agreement is unlikely to be based (only) on one-way
permutations and collision resistant hash functions in a black-box manner: It is
known that any secret key agreement protocol in the random oracle model11 can
be broken using an O(n2) queries attack [IR89,BM09] and this is tight.
10 ŌłŚis a donŌĆÖt care symbol, see [BLV18] for a comparison of ŌĆ£total vs. partial predicatesŌĆØ.
11 CRHs exist in this model.

Low Communication Complexity Protocols
267
3
Collision Resistance and the Preset Public Coins Model
3.1
CRHs Imply Succinct Protocols
We start by noting that the lower bounds shown in Sect. 3.2 (about the necessity
of dCRHs) are almost tight, since using a CRH one can break those bounds
(╬®(ŌłÜn) in the SM model (Theorem 3.2) and ╬®(log n) in the interactive model
(Theorem 3.14)). See the full version for details.
Theorem 3.1. If CRHs exist, then given a family of CRHs {h : {0, 1}n ŌåÆ
{0, 1}╬╗},
In the preset public coins SM model: There exist protocols of communica-
tion complexity O(
ŌłÜ
╬╗) for the Equality predicate.
In the preset public coins interactive model: There exist protocols of com-
munication complexity O(log ╬╗) for the Equality predicate.
3.2
Succinct Protocols Imply dCRHs
Theorem 3.2. Let c(n) Ōēżo(ŌłÜn). Given a protocol for an e’¼āciently separable
predicate (De’¼ünition 2.2) of complexity c(n) in the preset public coins SM model,
then distributional CRH functions exist and it is possible to construct them from
the protocol.
Proof. Our intuition is that after ’¼üxing the public random string rpub, the model
is similar to the private coins SM model where the adversary is faced with
a problem de’¼üned by the random string. We therefore appeal to Babai and
KimmelŌĆÖs de’¼ünitions and techniques. Furthermore, in Lemma 3.5 we will also
repeat the proof of [BK97, Lemma 2.3] with a di’¼Ćerent constant and make it
constructive.
For each multiset of AliceŌĆÖs messages and one message from Bob we consider
the probability of acceptance by the referee:
De’¼ünition 3.3 (RefereeŌĆÖs Expected Value for a Multiset). For any rpub,
for a multiset T of members from MA and mB ŌłłMB, let
Q(T, mB) = E
iŌłł[t][Žürpub(T[i], mB)] = 1
t

iŌłł[t]
Žürpub(T[i], mB)
where t = |T|.
Now, we show that for every input of Alice x ŌłłX, there exists a multiset char-
acterizing the behavior of Alice on x. In other words, instead of running Alice,
we can approximate the protocolŌĆÖs result (refereeŌĆÖs output) by a uniform sample
from the multiset. Furthermore, we prove that such a multiset can be found
(w.h.p.) by some (relatively few) independent samples from the distribution
de’¼üned by Alice (given x and rpub).

268
S. P. Cohen and M. Naor
De’¼ünition 3.4 (Characterizing Multiset).
For any rpub, a multiset T of
elements from MA characterizes Alice for x ŌłłX if ŌłĆmB ŌłłMB,
Q(T, mB) ŌłÆPr
rA [Žürpub(Arpub(x, rA), mB) = 1]
 Ōēż0.1
where Q(Tx, mB) is the refereeŌĆÖs expected value for the multiset Tx and BobŌĆÖs
possible message mB ŌłłMB (De’¼ünition 3.3).
Lemma 3.5 (Sample a Characterizing Multiset). For any rpub, for x Ōłł
X, let rŌĆ▓ = (r1
A, ..., rt
A) be t independent uniform samples from RA where t =
2 ┬Ę 200 ┬Ę ln(2 |MB|). Then, for the multiset Tx = {Arpub(x, ri
A) : i Ōłł[t]} it holds
that ŌłĆmB ŌłłMB,
Pr
rŌĆ▓
Q(Tx, mB) ŌłÆPr
rA [Žürpub(Arpub(x, rA), mB) = 1]
 Ōēż0.1

Ōēź1 ŌłÆ
1
2 |MB|
(i.e., Tx characterizes Alice for x)
Proof. Let Tx be as de’¼üned. ŌłĆi Ōłł[t], mB ŌłłMB,
E[Žürpub(Tx[i], mB)] = Pr
rA [Žürpub(Arpub(x, rA), mB) = 1]
=ŌćÆE

Žürpub(Tx[i], mB) ŌłÆPr
rA [Žürpub(Arpub(x, rA), mB) = 1]

= 0
where the probability is over the random choice Tx[i] ŌåÉArpub(x).
Now, for i Ōłł[i], de’¼üne random variables
╬Ę(i) = Žürpub(Tx[i], mB) ŌłÆPr
rA [Žürpub(Arpub(x, rA), mB) = 1].
Since the members of Tx are independent random variables, we have that all
{╬Ę(i) : i Ōłł[t]} are independent random variables with expectation 0. Hence, we
can use a Cherno’¼Ćbound to bound the probability that, for a ’¼üxed mB ŌłłMB,


iŌłł[t]
╬Ę(Tx[i])

> 0.1 ┬Ę t.
In other words, the probability that
Q(Tx, mB) ŌłÆPr
rA [Žürpub(Arpub(x, rA), mB) = 1]
 > 0.1
is bounded by
Pr
rŌĆ▓ [|

iŌłł[t]
Žürpub(Tx[i], mB) ŌłÆE[

iŌłł[t]
Žürpub(Tx[i], mB)]| > 0.1] < 2eŌłÆ(0.1)2┬Ęt
2
(Lemma 2.12)
= 2eŌłÆ
t
200
= 2eŌłÆ2 ln(2|MB|)
=
1
2 |MB|2 .

Low Communication Complexity Protocols
269
By the union bound (over all mB ŌłłMB),
Pr
rŌĆ▓

ŌłāmB s.t.
Q(T, mB) ŌłÆPr
rA [Žürpub(Arpub(x, rA), mB) = 1]
 > 0.1

<
|MB|
2 |MB|2
=
1
2 |MB|
Ō¢Ī
We de’¼üne a hash function by following the process of Lemma 3.5 (running Alice
t times independently):
Construction 3.6. Characterizing Multiset Function
De’¼ünition: The function is de’¼üned by the public random string rpub and t AliceŌĆÖs
random tapes r1
A, ..., rt
A ŌłłRA.
Output: For x ŌłłX, the value of the function is the multiset as in Lemma 3.5:
h(x) = The multiset {Arpub(x, ri
A) : i Ōłł[t]}
where the multiset is encoded as a sequence Arpub(x, r1
A), . . . , Arpub(x, rt
A), note
that every AliceŌĆÖs message can be encoded using log |MA| = c bits.
Observation 3.7. For all x ŌłłX, the function from Construction 3.6 outputs
a multiset that characterizes x w.p. 1 ŌłÆ
1
2|MB| where the probability is over the
uniform random choice of r1
A, ..., rt
A ŌłłRA.
Observation 3.8. The function from Construction 3.6 is compressing: The
domain of the function is of size 2n, but the range is of size at most
(2c)t = 2400c┬Ę(c+1)┬Ęln 2 = 2╬ś(c2) = 2o(n)
Next, we prove that any x and xŌĆ▓ which share a characterizing multiset,
induce bad inputs for the protocol (since AliceŌĆÖs behavior on x and xŌĆ▓ is similar).
Proposition 3.9. Let x, xŌĆ▓ ŌłłX and y ŌłłY that separates them (De’¼ünition 2.1),
if there is a multiset T that is characterizing for both x and xŌĆ▓ then, the sum of
the failure probability of ŽĆ(x, y) and ŽĆ(xŌĆ▓, y) is at least 0.8. In other words, at
least one of them fails.
Proof. Since T is a characterizing multiset (De’¼ünition 3.4) of both x and xŌĆ▓, then
ŌłĆmB ŌłłMB
Q(T, mB) ŌłÆPr
rA [Žürpub(Arpub(x, rA), mB) = 1]
 Ōēż0.1

270
S. P. Cohen and M. Naor
and the same for xŌĆ▓. This means
Pr
rA [Žürpub(Arpub(x, rA), mB) = 1] Ōłł[Q(T, mB) ┬▒ 0.1]
and
Pr
rA [Žürpub(Arpub(xŌĆ▓, rA), mB) = 1] Ōłł[Q(T, mB) ┬▒ 0.1] .
Putting it together we get that:
Pr
rA [Žürpub(Arpub(x, rA), mB) = 1] ŌłÆPr
rA [Žürpub(Arpub(xŌĆ▓, rA), mB) = 1]
 Ōēż0.2.
(1)
Assume without loss of generality that f(x, y) = 0 and f(xŌĆ▓, y) = 1
Pr[ŽĆ fails on (x, y)] =
Pr
rA,rB[Žürpub(Arpub(x, rA), Brpub(y, rB)) = 1]
=
E
rA,rB
[Žürpub(Arpub(x, rA), Brpub(y, rB))]
= E
rB

E
rA
[Žürpub(Arpub(x, rA), Brpub(y, rB))]

ŌēźE
rB

E
rA
[Žürpub(Arpub(xŌĆ▓, rA), Brpub(y, rB))] ŌłÆ0.2

(Equation (1))
= E
rB

E
rA
[Žürpub(Arpub(xŌĆ▓, rA), Brpub(y, rB))]

ŌłÆ0.2
=
Pr
rA,rB[Žürpub(Arpub(xŌĆ▓, rA), Brpub(y, rB)) = 1] ŌłÆ0.2
= Pr[ŽĆ succeeds on (xŌĆ▓, y)] ŌłÆ0.2
= 1 ŌłÆPr[ŽĆ fails on (xŌĆ▓, y)] ŌłÆ0.2
= 0.8 ŌłÆPr[ŽĆ fails on (xŌĆ▓, y)]
Hence, the sum of the failure probability of the protocol on (x, y) and the failure
probability of the protocol on (xŌĆ▓, y) is
Pr[ŽĆ(x, y) fails] + Pr[ŽĆ(xŌĆ▓, y) fails] Ōēź0.8
Ō¢Ī
However, now we deal with the fact that there exist xŌĆÖs s.t. the multiset h(x)
does not characterize x (Observation 3.7).
Lemma 3.10. Let ŽĆ be an SM protocol of complexity c(n) = o(ŌłÜn) and h(x) be
as in Construction 3.6. If we have an e’¼ācient adversary Advcollision that breaks
the security of h as a distributional CRH for some p Ōłłpoly(╬╗):
╬ö (Advcollision(h), COL(h)) Ōēż
1
p(╬╗)

Low Communication Complexity Protocols
271
Then, we can construct an adversary AdvŽĆ with running time of the same order
as Advcollision s.t.
Pr[ŽĆ fails on inputs from AdvŽĆ] Ōēź0.4

1 ŌłÆ
1
p(╬╗)

ŌłÆnegl(╬╗)
Proof. AdvŽĆŌĆÖs algorithm is:
Algorithm 3.11. Near Ideal Collision Finder for h to Bad Inputs for Protocol
ŽĆ
1. Construct h(x) using the public random string of ŽĆ and as in Construction 3.6.
2. x, xŌĆ▓ ŌåÉAdvcollision(h).
3. Find y ŌłłY which separates x and xŌĆ▓ (promised to be e’¼ācient by De’¼ünition 2.2).
4. Pass to Alice and Bob (x, y) w.p. 1/2 or (xŌĆ▓, y) w.p. 1/2.
First, we consider COLŌĆÖs distribution: A pair (x, xŌĆ▓) that was sampled from
COL (the ideal collisions ’¼ünder, De’¼ünition 2.15) will not be usable for Algo-
rithm 3.11 if any of the following conditions hold:
1. x = xŌĆ▓.
2. h(x) = h(xŌĆ▓) is not characterizing x or xŌĆ▓.
We call a pair (x, xŌĆ▓) a colliding pair if neither of the above two conditions hold.
In the following claims we bound the probability for those bad events.
Proposition 3.12. The probability of sampling a pair (x, x) from COL (i.e.,
x = xŌĆ▓) is negligible. That is,
Pr
(x,xŌĆ▓)ŌåÉCOL[x = xŌĆ▓] = negl(n)
Proof. First, consider the number of pairs (x, xŌĆ▓) s.t. x ╠Ė= xŌĆ▓ but h(x) = h(xŌĆ▓).
By the pigeonhole principle there exists a set of xŌĆÖs of size at least 2nŌłÆc2 with the
same image. Hence, there are at least
	2nŌłÆc2
2

= ╬ś((2nŌłÆc2)2) many pairs (x, xŌĆ▓)
s.t. x ╠Ė= xŌĆ▓ but h(x) = h(xŌĆ▓). On the other hand, the number of pairs (x, x) is
2n. Hence,
Pr
(x,xŌĆ▓)ŌåÉCOL[x = xŌĆ▓] = O

2n
2n + (2nŌłÆo(n))2

= negl(╬╗)
(c2 = o(n))
Ō¢Ī
Proposition 3.13. For a random h, the probability of sampling from COL a
pair (x, xŌĆ▓) s.t. the multiset h(x) does not characterize x or xŌĆ▓ is negligible.

272
S. P. Cohen and M. Naor
Proof. Let (x, xŌĆ▓) ŌåÉCOL, recall that the distribution of each element from
COL (x and xŌĆ▓) is uniform (De’¼ünition 2.15). For each element in the pair, the
probability that the multiset h(x) does not characterize it is at most 2ŌłÆc (Obser-
vation 3.7) and by the union bound the claim follows.
Ō¢Ī
By Propositions 3.12 and 3.13, a sample from COL is colliding w.p. 1 ŌłÆnegl(╬╗).
However, the distribution of Advcollision is not exactly the same as COL, but
1
p(╬╗) Ōēź╬ö(COL, Advcollision)
Ōēź

Pr
(x,xŌĆ▓)ŌåÉAdvcollision[(x, xŌĆ▓) not colliding] ŌłÆ
Pr
(x,xŌĆ▓)ŌåÉCOL[(x, xŌĆ▓) not colliding]

and we can conclude that the probability that Algorithm 3.11 does not get a
colliding pair (x, xŌĆ▓) in step 2 is bounded by,
Pr
(x,xŌĆ▓)ŌåÉAdvcollision[(x, xŌĆ▓) isnŌĆÖt colliding] Ōēż
1
p(╬╗) + negl(╬╗)
To conclude: In cases that a colliding pair (x, xŌĆ▓) was found by the adversary.
The adversary chooses at random a pair from (x, y) and (xŌĆ▓, y) (where y separates
x and xŌĆ▓, and can be found e’¼āciently by De’¼ünition 2.2). By Proposition 3.9,
Pr[ŽĆ(x, y) fails] + Pr[ŽĆ(xŌĆ▓, y) fails] Ōēź0.8
and hence the failure probability over the random choice of the pair is at least
Pr
(z,y)ŌåÉAdvŽĆ
ŽĆ
[ŽĆ(z, y) fails] Ōēź0.4
Now, put it together with the probability of ’¼ünding a colliding pair (for h) and
we get the probability that the protocol ŽĆ fails on inputs from the adversary:
Pr[AdvŽĆ ’¼ünds a colliding (x, xŌĆ▓)] ┬Ę
Pr
(z,y)ŌåÉAdvŽĆ
ŽĆ
[ŽĆ(z, y) fails]
Ōēź

1 ŌłÆ
1
p(╬╗) ŌłÆnegl(╬╗)

┬Ę 4
10
Ō¢Ī
We get that given an adversary for the distributional CRH we can ’¼ünd bad
inputs for the protocol as required for the proof.
Ō¢Ī
Interactive Protocols
For general (interactive) protocols we can also prove a similar implication as in
Theorem 3.2 for a logarithmic bound by the technique adaptation of Ben-Sasson
and Maor [BM15]:

Low Communication Complexity Protocols
273
Theorem 3.14. Let c(n) < ╬┤╬Ą log n, where ╬┤╬Ą < 1/2 is a constant that depends
only on ╬Ą. For an e’¼āciently separable predicate (satisfying De’¼ünition 2.2), given
a protocol of complexity c(n) in the preset public coins interactive model, a dis-
tributional CRH can be constructed.
Ben-Sasson and Maor studied protocols in the general communication settings
and instead of using a characterizing multiset of messages they used a char-
acterizing multiset of deterministic strategies. They have a variation of [BK97,
Lemma 2.3] that says that there exists a strategies multiset of size 2O(c) that
characterizes the behavior of Alice for x ŌłłX.
For a detailed proof see the full version.
A Corollary for PPHs
Corollary 3.15. Without assuming the existence of distributional CRHs one
cannot get better than ŌłÜ┬Ę compression for a direct-access robust equality PPH,
even when extending the de’¼ünitions for randomized hash functions.
Proof. Observe that any PPH can be used to solve the same problem in the preset
public coins SM model. Hence, this corollary is simply rephrasing Theorem 3.2
in the terms of adversarially robust property-preserving hash functions.
Ō¢Ī
Note that the other direction is true as well: Every protocol in the preset
public coins SM model for f(x, y) of c(n) bits ŌĆśinducesŌĆÖ a PPH for f of c(n) ┬Ę n╬Ą
bits for some ╬Ą > 0. That is, we start with any preset public coins SM protocol
and repeat it n╬Ą times to make the error probability negligible. This protocol
de’¼ünes a family of PPHs and its random coins are ’¼üxed when sampling a function
from the family.
4
No Ultra Short Interactive Communication
The power of the preset public coins model power lies between the public and
the private coins models. As noted, the public random coins model is strictly
more powerful than the private one: there are protocols of O(1) bits only in this
model. We show (unconditionally) that in our model there are no functions with
o(log log n) communication complexity:
Theorem 4.1. Let c(n) : N ŌåÆN be s.t. 23c(n) = O(log n) and let f : X ├Ś Y ŌåÆ
{0, 1} be an e’¼āciently separable predicate (satisfying De’¼ünition 2.2, i.e., non
redundant s.t. can be proven e’¼āciently). In the preset public coins interactive
communication model, if the adversary has a running time of poly(╬╗) (where ╬╗
is the security parameter) then, there are no protocols of complexity O(c(n)).
Proof. Assume there is such a protocol in the preset public coins interactive
model for some non-redundant function f of complexity c(n).
In the proof of Theorem 3.14 we adapted Construction 3.6 for interactive
protocols. The constructed hash function has the following properties:

274
S. P. Cohen and M. Naor
ŌĆō Random collisions in the function induce (w.h.p.) bad inputs in the protocol
(Lemma 3.10).
ŌĆō The range of the function is of size
|SA|t = |SA|22┬Ę200 ln(2|SB|)
Those properties are the key points of the adversary described by Algorithm 4.2
that searches for random collisions in a brute force manner.
Algorithm 4.2. Finding Bad Inputs in Ulta-Succinct Protocols
1. Construct a characterizing function h(┬Ę) (Construction 3.6).
2. Repeat at most 3 ┬Ę 223c = poly(╬╗) times:
(a) Choose a pair x ╠Ė= xŌĆ▓ ŌłłX uniformly at random.
(b) If h(x) = h(xŌĆ▓):
i. Find y ŌłłY that separates x and xŌĆ▓ (can be done e’¼āciently, as promised
by De’¼ünition 2.2).
ii. Output (x, y) w.p. 1/2 or (xŌĆ▓, y) w.p. 1/2
iii. Halt
Let h be a characterizing function of the protocol (Construction 3.6). The proof
relies on the following two claims:
Ō¢Ī
Proposition 4.3. There must be a collision in h.
Proof. The range of the characterizing function h(x) is of size (number of possible
characterizing sets):
|SA|22┬Ę200 ln(2|SB|)
= 22c┬Ę2┬Ę200 ln(22c+1) < 223c
Hence, since 23c = O(log n) = o(n) there must be a collision in the function. Ō¢Ī
Proposition 4.4. The adversary described in Algorithm 4.2 ’¼ünds a collision
w.h.p.
Proof. Since the range is small (same order as the running time of the adversary
223c = poly(╬╗)), the adversary can ’¼ünd random collisions easily. The probability
for a random pair to collide is at least
1
223c and hence, after 3 ┬Ę 223c trials, the
probability that a collision was not found is at most:
Pr
x,xŌĆ▓[h(x) ╠Ė= h(xŌĆ▓)]3┬Ę223c
Ōēż
ŌÄø
ŌÄØ

1 ŌłÆ
1
223c
223cŌÄ×
ŌÄĀ
3
ŌåÆeŌłÆ3
=ŌćÆPr
x,xŌĆ▓[h(x) ╠Ė= h(xŌĆ▓)]3┬Ę223c
< 0.05
Ō¢Ī

Low Communication Complexity Protocols
275
We get that w.h.p. the adversary ’¼ünds a collision in the function h. However,
not every collision implies bad inputs for the protocol: the construction of the
characterizing function implies that there exist also bad collisions: x and xŌĆ▓ s.t.
h(x) = h(xŌĆ▓) but h(x) doesnŌĆÖt characterizes x or xŌĆ▓ (recall Observation 3.7).
However, in almost all collisions it is not the case and h(x) characterizes x and
xŌĆ▓ (recall Proposition 3.13). Now, since the collision that Algorithm 4.2 ’¼ünds is
completely random we can conclude,
Pr[the adversary ’¼ünds a colliding pair] Ōēź1 ŌłÆ0.05 ŌłÆ
1
|SB|
and by Proposition 3.9
Pr[the protocol will fail] Ōēź1
2 ┬Ę 8
10

1 ŌłÆ0.05 ŌłÆ
1
|SB|

> 1
3.
Ō¢Ī
5
Secret Key Agreement from E’¼ācient SM Protocols
5.1
Optimal Protocols from SKA
Our ’¼ürst observation is that it is possible to obtain an optimal protocol (in terms
of the error as a function of the communication) for the equality predicate once
given a secret key agreement protocol, following relatively simple principles. The
error is 2ŌłÆc (where c is the communication complexity after the free talk) plus a
negligible factor re’¼éecting the probability of breaking the secret-key exchange.
For details see the full version.
Theorem 5.1. In the stateful preset public coins SM with free talk model: Given
a secret key agreement protocol there is, for any c(n), a protocol for the equality
predicate of complexity c(n), where any adversary can cause an incorrect answer
with probability at most 2ŌłÆc + negl(n), satisfying De’¼ünition 2.10.
5.2
SKA from Near Optimal Protocols
Theorem 5.2. An SM protocol with stateful free talk for the equality predicate
of complexity c(n) = O(log log n) for c(n) larger from some constant, that is
╬Ą-secure (De’¼ünition 2.10) with ╬Ą Ōēż2ŌłÆ0.7c(n), implies the existence of secret key-
agreement protocols.
Proof. Assume we have such a protocol ŽĆ for the equality predicate EQ :
{0, 1}n ├Ś{0, 1}n ŌåÆ{0, 1}. We will use ŽĆ for constructing a secret key-agreement
protocol. The idea is to construct a weak secret bit agreement (De’¼ünition 2.18)
that can be ampli’¼üed into a full secret key agreement (╬▒ and ╬▓ according to
Theorem 2.20). The construction is based on the following: (╬▒, ╬▓)-SBA protocol:

276
S. P. Cohen and M. Naor
Algorithm 5.3. Weak Bit Agreement
1. Alice and Bob communicate and toss coins according to the free talk of protocol
ŽĆ to generate their secret states ŽäA and ŽäB respectively.
2. Alice selects at random a bit b Ōłł{0, 1} and uniformly random inputs x0, x1 Ōłł
{0, 1}n.
3. Alice evaluates mA = A(xb, ŽäA) (that is, a message of the protocol ŽĆ for EQ(┬Ę, ┬Ę)).
4. Alice sends to Bob (mA, x1).
5. Bob evaluates mB = B(x1, ŽäB).
6. Alice outputs b and Bob outputs bŌĆ▓ = Žü(mA, mB).
Lemma 5.4. Algorithm 5.3 is a
	
╬▒ = 1 ŌłÆ2ŌłÆc/2ŌłÆ3, ╬▓ = 2ŌłÆc/2+1
-SBA protocol.
Proof. Let c = c(n). We have to show its agreement and secrecy properties:
Agreement. By the properties of protocol ŽĆ, speci’¼ücally that the error ╬Ą Ōēż
2ŌłÆ0.7c(n):
Pr[b = bŌĆ▓] Ōēź1 ŌłÆ
1
2
0.7c
Ōēź1 ŌłÆ
1
2
0.5cŌłÆ2
= 1 + (1 ŌłÆ2ŌłÆc/2ŌłÆ3)
2
= 1 + ╬▒
2
.
Secrecy. We should show that for every PPTM adversary Advsba
Pr[Advsba(mA, x1) = b | b = bŌĆ▓] Ōēż2 ŌłÆ╬▓
2
= 2 ŌłÆ2ŌłÆc/2+1
2
= 2c/2 ŌłÆ1
2c/2
.
Assume towards contradiction that Pr[Advsba(mA, x1) = b | b = bŌĆ▓] > 2c/2ŌłÆ1
2c/2 .
We show that given Advsba, we can construct Adveq that ’¼ünds bad inputs for
the protocol ŽĆ (with probability higher than ╬Ą):
Lemma 5.5. Given an adversary Advsba with success probability (guessing b
when it is equal to bŌĆ▓) at least 2c/2ŌłÆ1
2c/2 , we can construct an adversary Adveq with
running time O(6 ┬Ę 2c+1) s.t.
Pr[ŽĆ fails on inputs from Adveq] > 2ŌłÆ0.7c Ōēź╬Ą.
Proof. The strategy of the adversary Adveq to ’¼ünd bad inputs is:
Algorithm 5.6. Adveq ŌĆō Find Bad Inputs Using Advsba
1. Repeat at most 6 ┬Ę 2c+1 times:
(a) Select uniformly at random x Ōłł{0, 1}n and set it as AliceŌĆÖs input.
(b) Let AliceŌĆÖs message (output) be mA ŌłłMA.
(c) Select uniformly at random xŌĆ▓ Ōłł{0, 1}n.
(d) If Advsba(x, mA) = 1 and Advsba(xŌĆ▓, mA) = 1:
i. Pass the message mA to the referee and set BobŌĆÖs input to be either y = x
w.p. 1/2 or y = xŌĆ▓ w.p. 1/2.
ii. Halt.
(e) Otherwise, continue to the next session.

Low Communication Complexity Protocols
277
Recall that the private states of Alice and Bob are ŽäA and ŽäB (unknown to
the adversary). The success of the adversary Adveq relies on choosing a colliding
xŌĆ▓ (i.e., xŌĆ▓ s.t. A(x, ŽäB) = A(xŌĆ▓, ŽäB)).
For x Ōłł{0, 1}n denote by p0
x and p1
x the probability of a random xŌĆ▓ Ōłł{0, 1}n
to be bad in the following sense:
1. Let p0
x be the probability that for a random xŌĆ▓: x and xŌĆ▓ collide yet are not
identi’¼üed by Advsba as such. I.e.,
p0
x =
Pr
xŌĆ▓,Adv[A(x) = A(xŌĆ▓) Ōł¦Advsba(xŌĆ▓, A(x, ŽäA)) = 0].
2. Let p1
x be the probability that for a random xŌĆ▓: x and xŌĆ▓ do not collide yet
are identi’¼üed by Advsba as such. I.e.,
p1
x =
Pr
xŌĆ▓,Adv[A(x) ╠Ė= A(xŌĆ▓) Ōł¦Advsba(xŌĆ▓, A(x, ŽäA)) = 1].
Let px = max(p0
x, p1
x). For a random free talk session and over the random
choice of x Ōłł{0, 1}n, we know that Ex[px] = 
px pxPr[px] Ōēż2ŌłÆc/2+1.
We will analyze the probability of success of each session and then argue
that at least one session succeeds in outputting a value w.h.p. We need to show
the probability of outputting a pair of strings that agree on the message Alice
sends (ŌĆ£CorrectŌĆØ) is not much smaller than outputting a pair that does not
agree (ŌĆ£WrongŌĆØ). To compare the probability of outputting a wrong value to
the probability of outputting the correct value, note that the probability of
outputting a wrong value is at most 
all px Pr[px] ┬Ę px Ōēż2ŌłÆc/2. On the other
hand we will argue that the probability of outputting a correct value (with
identi’¼ücation) is roughly (at least) 2ŌłÆc. The ratio between them is roughly 2ŌłÆ0.5c
and we get an attack of the equality protocol that is better than its purported
security.
For the rest of the proof see the full version.
Ō¢Ī
Lemma 5.5 implies the secrecy of Algorithm 5.3 (otherwise, we get a contra-
diction for the security of protocol ŽĆ).
This means that Algorithm 5.3 is an (1 ŌłÆ2ŌłÆc/2ŌłÆ3, 2ŌłÆc/2+1)-SBA and the
proof of Lemma 5.4.
Ō¢Ī
Finally, we have to show that Theorem 2.20 can be used to amplify the secret
bit agreement:
Proposition 5.7. For the functions ╬▒(c) = 1ŌłÆ2ŌłÆc/2ŌłÆ3 and ╬▓(c) = 2ŌłÆc/2+1 the
conditions in Lemma 2.20 hold.
For proof see the full version.
We conclude, by Proposition 5.7 that the SBA of Algorithm 5.3 (Lemma 5.4)
can be ampli’¼üed e’¼āciently into a full-’¼éedged secret key agreement protocol. Ō¢Ī

278
S. P. Cohen and M. Naor
6
Conclusions
Role of Private Randomness. In this paper we introduced a computational model
for communication complexity. However, it can also be seen as a generalization
of (deterministic) property preserving hash functions to probabilistic algorithms.
We studied some relations between the power of private randomness and crypto-
graphic primitives such as collision resistance. The main open problem left from
this point is whether CRHs are equivalent to preset public coins SM protocols
of complexity o(ŌłÜn) and whether we can break that bound using a primitive
weaker than CRHs. Another direction could be to show how to use o(ŌłÜn) equal-
ity protocols in order to get low communication string commitment.
Boyle et al.ŌĆÖs Lower Bounds. Boyle et al. [BLV18] proved two general lower bounds
for property preserving hash functions using communication complexity12:
1. A lower bound for reconstructing predicates: Boyle et al. proved that for
predicates that can be used for reconstructing the original string there cannot
exist (compressing) property preserving hash functions. This lower bound is
also true for our preset public coins SM model. However, we didnŌĆÖt necessarily
consider reconstructing predicates (for instance, the equality predicate is not
a reconstructing predicate).
2. General lower bound from one-way communication: Boyle et al. proved that
any property preserving hash function cannot compress better than the one-
way communication complexity13. This lower bound is also true in our model,
but it is too loose in our context since in our model the inputs and the public
random string may be dependent (e.g., the equality predicate complexity is
O(1) in the one-way communication complexity model).
Multi CRHs (MCRH). For k Ōēź3, A familty of hash function is k-multi-collision
resistant if ’¼ünding a collision of size k is hard: no PPTM can succeed in ’¼ünding
x1, . . . , xk s.t. h(x1) = . . . = h(xk) with non-negligible probability (for k = 2
it is the regular notion of collision resistance); see [KNY18,KY18,RV22] for
the relationship between MCRHs, dCRHS and CRHs. One question is whether
MCRHs can be constructed from succinct protocols in a black-box manner.
Secret Key Agreement. We showed a tight relationship between secret key agree-
ment protocols and succinct protocols for the equality predicate in the SM pre-
set public coins stateful free talk model. On the one hand, SKA can be used for
constructing an equality protocol in this model, and on the other hand, equality
protocols with good error in this model can be used for constructing SKA pro-
tocols. The open questions are (i) whether the existence of protocols with much
worse error probability (e.g., constant error probability for c which O(log log ╬╗))
12 See also Hardt and Woodru’¼Ć[HW13] who proved robustness limitations for linear
functions.
13 See Fleischhacker and Simkin [FS21] and Fleischhacker et al. [FLS22] for more such
lower bounds.

Low Communication Complexity Protocols
279
also imply SKA and (ii) whether the fact that we allowed the adversary Adveq
to be rushing was essential.
Acknowledgments. We thank Shahar Dobzinski, Ilan Komargodski, Guy Rothlbum
and Eylon Yogev for useful discussions and suggestions and the Crypto 2022 referees
for the helpful comments and questions.
References
[AS08] Alon, N., Spencer, J.H.: The Probabilistic Method, 3rd edn. Wiley, Hobo-
ken (2008)
[BGK15] Bottesch, R., Gavinsky, D., Klauck, H.: Equality, revisited. In: Italiano,
G.F., Pighizzini, G., Sannella, D.T. (eds.) MFCS 2015. LNCS, vol. 9235,
pp. 127ŌĆō138. Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
662-48054-0 11
[BHKY19] Bitansky, N., Haitner, I., Komargodski, I., Yogev, E.: Distributional colli-
sion resistance beyond one-way functions. In: Ishai, Y., Rijmen, V. (eds.)
EUROCRYPT 2019. LNCS, vol. 11478, pp. 667ŌĆō695. Springer, Cham
(2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-17659-4 23
[BIN97] Bellare, M., Impagliazzo, R., Naor, M.: Does parallel repetition lower the
error in computationally sound protocols? In: Proceedings 38th Symposium
on Foundations of Computer Science, pp. 374ŌĆō383. IEEE (1997)
[BK97] Babai, L., Kimmel, P.G.: Randomized simultaneous messages: solution of a
problem of YAO in communication complexity. In: Proceedings of Compu-
tational Complexity. Twelfth IEEE Conference, pp. 239ŌĆō246. IEEE (1997)
[BLV18] Boyle, E., LaVigne, R., Vaikuntanathan, V.: Adversarially robust property-
preserving hash functions. In: ITCS 2019 (2018)
[BM15] Ben-Sasson, E., Maor, G.: Lower bound for communication complexity
with no public randomness. Electron. Colloquium Comput. Complex. 22,
139 (2015)
[BM09] Barak, B., Mahmoody-Ghidary, M.: Merkle puzzles are optimal ŌĆö an
O(n2)-query attack on any key exchange from a random oracle. In: Halevi,
S. (ed.) CRYPTO 2009. LNCS, vol. 5677, pp. 374ŌĆō390. Springer, Heidel-
berg (2009). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-03356-8 22
[CHS05] Canetti, R., Halevi, S., Steiner, M.: Hardness ampli’¼ücation of weakly ver-
i’¼üable puzzles. In: Kilian, J. (ed.) TCC 2005. LNCS, vol. 3378, pp. 17ŌĆō33.
Springer, Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-30576-7 2
[DI06] Dubrov, B., Ishai, Y.: On the randomness complexity of e’¼ācient sampling.
In: Proceedings of the Thirty-eighth ACM Symposium on Theory of Com-
puting, pp. 711ŌĆō720 (2006)
[FLS22] Fleischhacker, N., Larsen, K.G., Simkin, M.: Property-preserving hash
functions for hamming distance from standard assumptions. In: Dunkel-
man, O., Dziembowski, S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2022, Part II. LNCS, vol.
13276, pp. 764ŌĆō781. Springer, Cham (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-031-07085-3 26
[FS21] Fleischhacker, N., Simkin, M.: Robust property-preserving hash functions
for hamming distance and more. In: Canteaut, A., Standaert, F.-X. (eds.)
EUROCRYPT 2021. LNCS, vol. 12698, pp. 311ŌĆō337. Springer, Cham
(2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-77883-5 11

280
S. P. Cohen and M. Naor
[GHY20] Grossman, O., Holmgren, J., Yogev, E.: Transparent error correcting in
a computationally bounded world. In: Pass, R., Pietrzak, K. (eds.) TCC
2020. LNCS, vol. 12552, pp. 530ŌĆō549. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-030-64381-2 19
[HIKNV04] Harsha, P., Ishai, Y., Kilian, J., Nissim, K., Venkatesh, S.: Communication
versus computation. In: D┬┤─▒az, J., Karhum┬©aki, J., Lepist┬©o, A., Sannella, D.
(eds.) ICALP 2004. LNCS, vol. 3142, pp. 745ŌĆō756. Springer, Heidelberg
(2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-27836-8 63
[Hol05] Holenstein, T.: Key agreement from weak bit agreement. In: Proceedings
of the 37th ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, pp. 664ŌĆō673 (2005)
[Hol06] Holenstein, T.: Strengthening key agreement using hard-core sets. Ph.D
thesis, ETH Zurich (2006)
[HW13] Hardt, M., Woodru’¼Ć, D.: How robust are linear sketches to adaptive
inputs? In: Proceedings of the Forty-Fifth ACM Symposium on Theory
of Computing, pp. 121ŌĆō130 (2013)
[IL89] Impagliazzo, R., Luby, M.: One-way functions are essential for complexity
based cryptography. In: 30th IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Com-
puter Science, pp. 230ŌĆō235. IEEE Computer Society (1989)
[IR89] Impagliazzo, R., Rudich, S.: Limits on the provable consequences of one-
way permutations. In: Proceedings of the 21st ACM symposium on Theory
of Computing, pp. 44ŌĆō61 (1989)
[KN96] Kushilevitz, E., Nisan, N.: Communication Complexity. Cambridge Uni-
versity Press, Cambridge (1996)
[KNY18] Komargodski, I., Naor, M., Yogev, E.: Collision resistant hashing for para-
noids: dealing with multiple collisions. In: Nielsen, J.B., Rijmen, V. (eds.)
EUROCRYPT 2018. LNCS, vol. 10821, pp. 162ŌĆō194. Springer, Cham
(2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-78375-8 6
[KY18] Komargodski, I., Yogev, E.: On distributional collision resistant hashing.
In: Shacham, H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2018. LNCS, vol. 10992,
pp. 303ŌĆō327. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
96881-0 11
[Lip94] Lipton, R.J.: A new approach to information theory. In: Enjalbert, P.,
Mayr, E.W., Wagner, K.W. (eds.) STACS 1994. LNCS, vol. 775, pp. 699ŌĆō
708. Springer, Heidelberg (1994). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-57785-
8 183
[MNS11] Mironov, I., Naor, M., Segev, G.: Sketching in adversarial environments.
SIAM J. Comput. 40(6), 1845ŌĆō1870 (2011)
[MPSW10] Micali, S., Peikert, C., Sudan, M., Wilson, D.A.: Optimal error correction
for computationally bounded noise. IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 56(11), 5673ŌĆō
5680 (2010)
[New91] Newman, I.: Private vs common random bits in communication complexity.
Inf. Process. Lett. 39(2), 67ŌĆō71 (1991)
[NR09] Naor, M., Rothblum, G.N.: The complexity of online memory checking. J.
ACM 56(1), 1ŌĆō46 (2009)
[NS96] Newman, I., Szegedy, M.: Public vs. private coin ’¼éips in one round commu-
nication games. In: Proceedings of the Twenty-Eighth ACM Symposium
on Theory of Computing, pp. 561ŌĆō570 (1996)
[RV22] Rothblum,
R.D.,
Vasudevan,
P.N.:
Collision-resistance
from
multi-
collision-resistance. Electron. Colloquium Comput. Complex. 17 (2022)
[RY20] Rao, A., Yehudayo’¼Ć, A.: Communication Complexity: and Applications.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge (2020)

Low Communication Complexity Protocols
281
[Sim98] Simon, D.R.: Finding collisions on a one-way street: can secure hash func-
tions be based on general assumptions? In: Nyberg, K. (ed.) EUROCRYPT
1998. LNCS, vol. 1403, pp. 334ŌĆō345. Springer, Heidelberg (1998). https://
doi.org/10.1007/BFb0054137
[Wee07] Wee, H.: One-way permutations, interactive hashing and statistically hid-
ing commitments. In: Vadhan, S.P. (ed.) TCC 2007. LNCS, vol. 4392, pp.
419ŌĆō433. Springer, Heidelberg (2007). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-
70936-7 23
[Yao79] Yao, A.C.-C.: Some complexity questions related to distributive comput-
ing. In: Proceedings of the 11th ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing,
STOC 1979, pp. 209ŌĆō213 (1979)

