Machine-Checked Security for XMSS
as in RFC 8391 and SPHINCS+
Manuel Barbosa1 , François Dupressoir2 , Benjamin Grégoire3 , Andreas
Hülsing4 , Matthias Meijers4 , and Pierre-Yves Strub5
1 University of Porto (FCUP) and INESC TEC, Portugal
2 University of Bristol, United Kingdom
3 Université Côte d’Azur, Inria, France
4 Eindhoven University of Technology, The Netherlands
5 Meta, France
fv-xmss@mmeijers.com
Abstract This work presents a novel machine-checked tight security
proof for XMSS — a stateful hash-based signature scheme that is (1)
standardized in RFC 8391 and NIST SP 800-208, and (2) employed as
a primary building block of SPHINCS+, one of the signature schemes
recently selected for standardization as a result of NIST’s post-quantum
competition.
In 2020, Kudinov, Kiktenko, and Fedoro pointed out a flaw affecting
the tight security proofs of SPHINCS+ and XMSS. For the case of
SPHINCS+, this flaw was fixed in a subsequent tight security proof by
Hülsing and Kudinov. Unfortunately, employing the fix from this proof
to construct an analogous tight security proof for XMSS would merely
demonstrate security with respect to an insufficient notion.
At the cost of modeling the message-hashing function as a random ora-
cle, we complete the tight security proof for XMSS and formally verify
it using the EasyCrypt proof assistant. (Note that this merely extends
the use of the random oracle model, as this model is already required in
other parts of the security analysis to justify the currently standardized
parameter values). As part of this endeavor, we formally verify the cru-
cial step common to the security proofs of SPHINCS+ and XMSS that
was found to be flawed before, thereby confirming that the core of the
aforementioned security proof by Hülsing and Kudinov is correct.
As this is the first work to formally verify proofs for hash-based signa-
ture schemes in EasyCrypt, we develop several novel libraries for the fun-
damental cryptographic concepts underlying such schemes — e.g., hash
functions and digital signature schemes — establishing a common start-
ing point for future formal verification efforts. These libraries will be
particularly helpful in formally verifying proofs of other hash-based sig-
nature schemes such as LMS or SPHINCS+.
Keywords: XMSS · SPHINCS+ · EasyCrypt· Formal Verification ·
Machine-Checked Proofs · Computer-Aided Cryptography

2
M. Barbosa et al.
1
Introduction
Quantum computers threaten the security of virtually all public-key cryptogra-
phy deployed today [Mos18]. Although it is still unclear if and when large-scale
quantum computers will become operational, there is continuous progress [GH19]
and the stakes are too high to risk not being prepared. For this reason, in late
2016, the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) initiated a
standardization process for post-quantum cryptography, i.e., classically com-
putable cryptographic constructions that can withstand attacks by quantum-
capable adversaries [NIS16]. Nearly six years later, NIST finally announced the
first four constructions to be standardized: the key encapsulation mechanism
CRYSTALS-Kyber, and the digital signature schemes CRYSTALS-Dilithium,
Falcon, and SPHINCS+ [NIS22]. However, for early adopters, NIST published
an initial standard (in 2020) describing the stateful hash-based signature schemes
XMSS and LMS [CAD+20], both previously specified in Request For Comments
(RFC) publications [HBG+18,MCF19]. These schemes provide post-quantum
secure signatures to users that can handle a secret state, i.e., a secret key that
changes over time. Interestingly, these schemes share a lot of structure with each
other and with SPHINCS+.
In 2020, Kudinov, Kiktenko, and Fedoro pointed out a flaw in the tight secu-
rity proof of the Winternitz One-Time Signature Scheme (WOTS) [KKF20], one
of the main building blocks of XMSS and SPHINCS+. This flaw invalidated the
tight security proof of XMSS [HRS16], as well as that of SPHINCS+ [BHK+19].
(The non-tight security proofs were not affected by this flaw; however, these
proofs could not justify practical parameters.) Regarding SPHINCS+, this flaw
was fixed by explicitly specifying the particular variant of WOTS employed in
SPHINCS+ (and XMSS), called WOTS-TW, and providing a new tight secu-
rity proof for this variant [HK22]. This proof, however, only shows security of
WOTS-TW against non-adaptive chosen-message attacks. For SPHINCS+, this
turns out to be sufficient because it uses WOTS-TW exclusively to sign user-
controlled data; nevertheless, for XMSS, this is not sufficient as it additionally
uses WOTS-TW to sign data that might be controlled by an adversary. This
leaves the security of XMSS an open question. Moreover, the fact that this flaw
was only found after four years — during which the concerned schemes received
quite some attention — questions the guarantees provided by the novel security
proof for SPHINCS+.
Computer-Aided Cryptography. Hash-based signature schemes are not the
only cryptographic constructions that have had flawed security proofs. Indeed,
there exist numerous examples of proofs for cryptographic constructions that
were widely considered to be correct after heavy scrutiny, but still turned out
to be faulty. Furthermore, in some of these cases, the corresponding construc-
tions were additionally shown to be insecure [KM19]. Often, the culprit in these
situations is, at least partially, the sheer complexity of the cryptographic con-
structions and their proofs, as well as a lack of rigor in the exposition of the
arguments in the proofs. Since post-quantum constructions and the correspond-

Machine-Checked Security for XMSS as in RFC 8391 and SPHINCS+
3
ing proofs tend to be relatively complex — and in many cases based on relatively
novel and lesser-studied concepts — additional care and rigor should be applied
in their evaluation.
Naturally, in the six years leading up to the final announcement in NIST’s
standardization process, each one of the eventually selected constructions un-
derwent extensive scrutiny by the cryptographic community and, potentially
after some adaptations, gained sufficient trust to be chosen for standardization.
(Certainly, the above-mentioned flaw invalidating the original security proof of
SPHINCS+ was discovered during this process.) Nevertheless, this does not ex-
clude the possibility that the current beliefs regarding the security of these con-
structions may be wrong, even if the corresponding proofs are currently deemed
correct.
In an attempt to address the complexity issues associated with devising and
evaluating cryptographic constructions and their proofs, the field of computer-
aided cryptography has produced a multitude of tools and frameworks aimed
at reducing the manual effort required for the verification of cryptography and,
ideally, reducing this effort to merely checking the security claims. Over the
years, these tools and frameworks have been successfully applied in the con-
struction and verification of increasingly intricate and important use cases. For
instance, in no particular order, CertiCrypt has been used to formally verify the
security of OAEP [BGLZ11]; EasyCrypt has been used to formally verify the
security and correctness of Saber’s public-key encryption scheme [HMS22]; Jas-
min (in conjunction with EasyCrypt) has been used to construct and formally
verify a functionally correct, constant-time, and efficient implementation of SHA-
3 [ABB+19]; and Tamarin has been used to formally verify TLS 1.3 [CHH+17].
For a more comprehensive overview and discussion of computer-aided cryptog-
raphy, refer to [BBB+21]. However, to the best of our knowledge, the security
properties of the standardized post-quantum hash-based signature schemes have
not been analyzed using computer-aided cryptography prior to this work.
Our Contribution. In this work, we face the challenge of reestablishing or in-
creasing the trust in the security of (the parameter sets considered for) XMSS
and SPHINCS+. To this end, we give a new tight security proof for XMSS build-
ing on the analysis of [HK22] and, moreover, formally verify the entire proof.
As the proof in [HK22], our proof bases security on the properties of several
keyed and tweakable hash functions in the standard model (see Section 2 for
definitions) and achieves a minimal security loss of log w bits (where w is the
Winternitz parameter, often set to 16 or 256 in practice). By performing our
proof in a modular manner, we independently verify the part of the proof that
is shared with the proof for SPHINCS+ presented in [HK22]. To complete the
proof for XMSS, we need to handle the signing of arbitrary-length messages; for
this to work, we have to model the message-compression function as a random
oracle. Although this segment of the proof could be carried out in the Quantum-
accessible Random Oracle Model (QROM) using [GHHM21], we restrict our-
selves to the Random Oracle Model (ROM) due to the current limitations of the
utilized tool. Nevertheless, we closely follow the proof of [GHHM21] to facilitate

4
M. Barbosa et al.
the lifting to the quantum setting as soon as the relevant shortcomings of the
tool are overcome. It should be noted that in order to justify the currently stan-
dardized parameter values, the security analysis of XMSS already requires the
(Q)ROM for matters other than the compression of messages [HRS16]; hence,
our work does not introduce the (Q)ROM but merely extends the use of it. More
precisely, as discussed in [HRS16], the (Q)ROM is already needed to argue that
one can reduce the size of the public key by replacing a lengthy list of random
values by a single public seed (that can be expanded to this list of random values
using a public function). This use of the (Q)ROM is not explicit in this work as
it is hidden behind the notion of tweakable hash functions.
We employ EasyCrypt, a tool predominantly designed for the formal verifica-
tion of security properties through code-based, game-playing proofs in the com-
putational model [BCG+12]. Since this is the first proper effort to verify hash-
based signatures in EasyCrypt, our work includes several additions to the tool. In
particular, we construct multiple comprehensive EasyCrypt libraries containing
generic specifications of several fundamental cryptographic concepts underlying
the schemes considered in this work. Specifically, we provide libraries for hash
functions — both keyed and tweakable — and digital signature schemes — both
stateless and stateful. As their content is specified generically, these libraries
can be reused in any other context that considers these concepts. Although not
presented here in detail, these libraries can be found in the code corresponding
to this work or in the standard library of EasyCrypt.
Summarizing, the purpose of this work is to establish greater confidence in
the security of XMSS and, by extension, SPHINCS+. Additionally, this work
aims to facilitate future formal verification efforts by providing generic libraries
that are reusable in a plethora of contexts.
Future Work. In future work, we will expand this work in two complementary
directions.
Extension to Quantum Setting. Our proof is formalized in the classical (i.e., non-
quantum) setting. However, since most of contemporary interest in (standalone)
XMSS is due to the scheme’s claimed quantum-resistance, verifying whether this
is actually veracious would be of significant value. In principle, the reasoning
used throughout most of the formal verification still holds true in the quan-
tum setting. However, handling of the message-compression step in the proof
occurs in the ROM and, while this step can also be performed in the QROM,
the necessary techniques [GHHM21] make use of advanced concepts such as
compressed oracles [Zha19]. At the time of writing, the quantum extension of
EasyCrypt [BBF+21] does not yet support some of these necessary techniques,
but ongoing work attempts to surmount this deficiency and lift the proof to the
quantum setting.
Formal Verification of SPHINCS+ and LMS. A significant portion of this work
focuses on the security of the substructure of XMSS that it shares with LMS and
SPHINCS+. Indeed, given that our proof sticks to the abstraction of tweakable
hash functions, a proof for LMS seems realizable by harnessing the foundations

Machine-Checked Security for XMSS as in RFC 8391 and SPHINCS+
5
established in this work. Similarly, this work marks a significant milestone in for-
mally verifying the security proof of SPHINCS+. Building on the relevant results
from this work, such a formal verification project seems feasible. Nevertheless,
we note that this still requires significant additional effort due to the complexity
of the SPHINCS+ construction. For instance, among others, it requires the addi-
tional incorporation of FORS, the few-time signature scheme used in SPHINCS+.
In this context, because improper instantiations of the employed tweakable hash
functions can lead to compromised security [PKC22], another interesting avenue
for future work is the validation of the constructions of tweakable hash functions
from [BHK+19]. However, again, this necessitates an expansion of the current
quantum extension of EasyCrypt.
Overview. The remainder of this paper is structured as follows. First, Section 2
introduces the primary concepts underlying the considered cryptographic con-
structions and their formal verification. Second, Section 3 presents a high-level
overview of (the employed approach to) the formal verification. Finally, the re-
maining sections — Section 4, Section 5, and Section 6 — discuss different parts
of the formal verification in more detail.
Acknowledgments. Andreas Hülsing and Matthias Meijers are funded by an
NWO VIDI grant (Project No. VI.Vidi.193.066). We thank the Formosa Crypto
consortium for support and discussions.
2
Preliminaries
Below, we provide the background necessary for the remainder of the paper.
Keyed Hash Functions. A Keyed Hash Function (KHF) is a function KHF :
K ×M →Y where key space K denotes a set of keys, and message space M and
digest space Y are sets of bitstrings. Often, Y constitutes the set of bitstrings
of a certain length — that is, Y = {0, 1}n for some n > 0 — and M constitutes
the set of bitstrings of arbitrary length — that is, for potentially many different
n > 0, {0, 1}n ⊆M. At times, instead of viewing a KHF as a single function,
we interpret and refer to it as a family of hash functions that is indexed by keys
from the key space. Indeed, each hash function in such a family has the message
space as its domain and the digest space as its codomain.
Regarding KHFs, we are merely concerned with a variant of the Collision
Resistance (CR) property called Multi-target extended Target Collision Resis-
tance (M-eTCR), and the Pseudo-Random Function family (PRF) property. In-
tuitively, a KHF has M-eTCR if it is computationally infeasible to, after selecting
a number of target messages and receiving a randomly sampled hash function
(from the family defined by the KHF) for each of these, find a different message
that maps to the same digest under some hash function (from the family defined
by the KHF) as one of the previously selected messages does under its associated
(randomly sampled) hash function. A KHF is a PRF if querying an unknown,
randomly selected hash function from the family defined by the KHF is compu-
tationally indistinguishable from randomly sampling elements from the digest

6
M. Barbosa et al.
GameM-eTCR
A,KHF
1 :
OMETCRKHF.Init()
2 :
i, k′, x′ ←AOMETCRKHF.Find()
3 :
k, x ←OMETCRKHF.K[i], OMETCRKHF.X[i]
4 :
return x ̸= x′ ∧KHF(k, x) = KHF(k′, x′)
OMETCRKHF
vars K,X
Init()
1 :
K,X ←[], []
Query(x)
1 :
k ←$ U(K)
2 :
K,X ←K || k,X || x
3 :
return k
Figure 1. M-eTCR game for keyed hash functions.
Figure 2.
Oracle
employed
in
the
M-eTCR game for keyed hash func-
tions.
GamePRF
A,KHF(b)
1 :
OPRFKHF.Init(b)
2 :
b′ ←AOPRFKHF.Distinguish()
3 :
return b′
OPRFKHF
vars b, k, m
Init(bi)
1 :
b, m ←bi, emptymap
2 :
k ←$ U(K)
Query(x)
1 :
if b then
2 :
if m.[x] = ⊥then
3 :
y ←$ U(Y)
4 :
m.[x] ←y
5 :
y ←m.[x]
6 :
else
7 :
y ←KHF(k, x)
8 :
return y
Figure 3. PRF game for keyed hash
functions.
Figure 4. Oracle employed in the PRF
game for keyed hash functions.
space. The M-eTCR and PRF properties for KHFs are formalized as the games
in Figure 1 and Figure 3, respectively; the oracles employed in these games are
given in Figure 2 and Figure 4. Certainly, in each of these games, the adversary
merely gains access to the Query procedure of the provided oracle. Then, the
advantage of any adversary A against M-eTCR is straightforwardly defined as
follows.
AdvM-eTCR
KHF
(A) = Pr
h
GameM-eTCR
A,KHF
= 1
i
Moreover, the advantage of any adversary A against PRF is defined as given
below.
AdvPRF
KHF (A) =
Pr
h
GamePRF
A,KHF(0) = 1
i
−Pr
h
GamePRF
A,KHF(1) = 1
i

Machine-Checked Security for XMSS as in RFC 8391 and SPHINCS+
7
Tweakable Hash Functions. A Tweakable Hash Function (THF) is a function
THF : P × T × M →Y where (public) parameter space P and tweak space T
respectively denote a set of (public) parameters and a set of tweaks, and message
space M and digest space Y are sets of bitstrings (corresponding to the same
sets as the identically named sets in the definition of KHFs). THFs were first
introduced in [BHK+19]. They form an extension of KHFs by allowing for the
consideration of contextual data in the form of tweaks, i.e., elements from the
tweak space.6 Tweaks are predominantly used for the mitigation of multi-target
attacks.
Alongside THFs, the authors of SPHINCS+ introduced the concept of col-
lections of such functions, containing a single THF for each possible length
of the input messages [BHK+19]. Such a collection can be viewed as the set
THFC = {THFλ : P × T × Mλ →Y}λ∈Λ where Λ is the index set that contains
all the possible lengths of input messages and Mλ is the set of bitstrings of
length λ, i.e., Mλ = {0, 1}λ.
The properties we consider for (collections of) THFs in this work are the
Single-function, Multi-target, Distinct-Tweak versions of UnDetectability (SM-
DT-UD-C); Target-Collision Resistance (SM-DT-TCR-C); and PREimage resis-
tance (SM-DT-PRE-C) of a THF as a member of a Collection. These properties
were first introduced in [HK22] for the purpose of recovering the tight secu-
rity proof of SPHINCS+. For an extensive discussion and in-depth analysis of
these properties, refer to [HK22]. As their names suggest, the THF properties
we consider are rather similar in their formalizations. Namely, for each property,
the formalization is approximately structured as follows. First, during initial-
ization, a parameter used to index the THF collection is sampled uniformly at
random. Then, both the challenge oracle and the collection oracle are initial-
ized with the sampled parameter. The challenge oracle allows the adversary to
adaptively define targets (through queries consisting of tweaks and, depending
on the property, potentially messages or digests) and learn the (claimed) corre-
sponding mappings under the considered THF. The collection oracle enables the
adversary to adaptively query any THF from the considered collection without
defining these queries as targets. After initialization, the target-selection stage
commences. During this stage, the adversary has access to both oracles, speci-
fying its targets by queries to the challenge oracle. Afterward, the attack stage
begins. Here, the adversary is given the used parameter and is asked to provide
a solution for (one of) the targets that it specified in the target-selection stage.
Certainly, the form that a solution takes depends on the considered game: For
SM-DT-UD-C, a solution is a boolean b′ indicating whether the adversary thinks
the challenge oracle returned digest of uniformly random messages (b′ = false) or
uniformly distributed digests (b′ = true); for SM-DT-TCR-C, a solution consists
of an index i pointing to a target (tw, x), and a message x′ that should map to
the same digest as message x when using tweak tw; and for SM-DT-PRE-C, a
solution consists of an index i pointing to a target (tw, y), and a message x that
should map to y using tweak tw.
6The parameter space of THFs is analogous to the key space of KHFs.

8
M. Barbosa et al.
GameSM-DT-UD-C
A,THF,THFC,t(b)
GameSM-DT-TCR-C
A,THF,THFC,t
GameSM-DT-PRE-C
A,THF,THFC,t
1 :
p ←$ U(P)
2 :
OUDTHF.Init(b, p)
OTCRTHF.Init(p)
OPRETHF.Init(p)
3 :
OCTHFC.Init(p)
4 :
AOUDTHF,OCTHFC.Pick()
AOTCRTHF,OCTHFC.Pick()
AOTCRTHF,OCTHFC.Pick()
5 :
b′ ←A.Distinguish(p)
i, x′ ←A.Find(p)
i, x ←A.Find(p)
6 :
Skip
tw, x ←OTCR.T[i], OTCR.X[i]
tw, y ←OPRE.T[i], OPRE.Y[i]
7 :
return b′ ∧VQSt(OUDTHF.T, OCTHFC.T)
return x ̸= x′ ∧THF(p, tw, x) = THF(p, tw, x′) ∧VQSt(OTCRTHF.T, OCTHFC.T)
return THF(p, tw, x) = y ∧VQSt(OPRETHF.T, OCTHFC.T)
Figure 5. SM-DT-UD-C (blue boxes), SM-DT-TCR-C (yellow boxes), and SM-DT-PRE-C
(green boxes) game for tweakable hash functions. Statements not within colored boxes are
executed in every game.
Finally, following the attack stage, success of the adversary is checked by
validating both the provided solution and the adversary’s behavior. The latter
is necessary as the adversary is not allowed to (1) specify more than a certain
number of tweaks, (2) use the same tweak for different targets, and (3) query
the collection oracle with a tweak occurring in any of the targets; this concurs
with the fact that XMSS and SPHINCS+ do not use the same tweak more
than once. The games formalizing the considered THF properties are given in
Figure 5; the oracles provided to the adversary in these games are specified in
Figure 6 (SM-DT-UD-C challenge oracle), Figure 7 (SM-DT-TCR-C challenge
oracle), Figure 8 (SM-DT-PRE-C challenge oracle), and Figure 9 (collection ora-
cle). Naturally, the adversary exclusively gains access to the Query procedures of
the given oracles. Furthermore, in these games, t denotes the number of targets
the adversary may specify, and VQSt is a predicate that validates the adver-
sary’s behavior based on the lists of tweaks from the challenge and collection
oracles. Then, we respectively define the advantage of any adversary A against
SM-DT-UD-C, SM-DT-TCR-C, and SM-DT-PRE-C as follows.
AdvSM-DT-UD-C
THF,THFC,t
(A) =
Pr
h
GameSM-DT-UD-C
A,THF,THFC,t(0) = 1
i
−Pr
h
GameSM-DT-UD-C
A,THF,THFC,t(1) = 1
i ,
AdvSM-DT-TCR-C
THF,THFC,t
(A) = Pr
h
GameSM-DT-TCR-C
A,THF,THFC,t = 1
i
, and
AdvSM-DT-PRE-C
THF,THFC,t
(A) = Pr
h
GameSM-DT-PRE-C
A,THF,THFC,t = 1
i
Addresses. XMSS — and, by extension, SPHINCS+ — consists of multiple com-
ponents; in each of these components, the same collection of THFs is employed.

Machine-Checked Security for XMSS as in RFC 8391 and SPHINCS+
9
OUDTHF
vars b, p,T
Init(bi, pi)
1 :
b, p,T ←bi, pi, [ ]
Query(tw)
1 :
if b then
2 :
y ←$ U(Y)
3 :
else
4 :
x ←$ U(X)
5 :
y ←THF(p, tw, x)
6 :
T ←T || tw
7 :
return y
OTCRTHF
vars p,T,X
Init(pi)
1 :
p,T,X ←pi, [ ], [ ]
Query(tw, x)
1 :
y ←THF(p, tw, x)
2 :
T,X ←T || tw,X || x
3 :
return y
Figure 6. Challenge oracle employed
in SM-DT-UD-C game.
Figure 7. Challenge oracle employed
in SM-DT-TCR-C game.
OPRETHF
vars p,T, Y
Init(pi)
1 :
p,T, Y ←pi, [ ], [ ]
Query(tw)
1 :
x ←$ U(X)
2 :
y ←THF(p, tw, x)
3 :
T, Y ←T || tw, Y || y
4 :
return y
OCTHFC
vars p,T
Init(pi)
1 :
p,T ←pi, [ ]
Query(tw, x)
1 :
y ←THFC|x|(p, tw, x)
2 :
T ←T || tw
3 :
return y
Figure 8. Challenge oracle employed
in SM-DT-PRE-C game.
Figure 9. Collection oracle employed
in games of properties for tweakable
hash functions.
As such, to mitigate multi-target attacks, schemes such as XMSS and SPHINCS+
use a unique tweak for each THF call throughout the entire construction. For the
generation of these tweaks, XMSS implements a particular addressing scheme.
Although one could almost completely abstract this addressing scheme away
in the analysis of XMSS and its components, we remain somewhat concrete as
to keep the connection to the actual specification clear. In particular, XMSS
employs addresses consisting of a fixed-length sequence of nonnegative integers
indicating the location and purpose of the THF call in the virtual structure. Nat-
urally, not all (fixed-length) sequences of nonnegative integers constitute valid
addresses. Furthermore, when analyzing a specific component individually, some
of the integers in the sequence may be irrelevant as they exclusively serve the
purpose of achieving uniqueness when multiple instances of the same component

10
M. Barbosa et al.
are considered simultaneously.7 For these reasons, in this paper, we use “address”
to refer to a fixed-length sequence of nonnegative integers that constitutes (the
relevant part of a) valid XMSS or SPHINCS+ address in the considered con-
text. Further details regarding address validity will be provided, when relevant,
throughout the paper.
(Tweakable Hash) Function Chains. Informally, a function chain is a se-
quence of values obtained by repeatedly applying a function on (a part of) its own
output, starting with some given value as input. In the context of WOTS-TW,
the chained function is a THF. In this chaining, the initially provided address
is updated in each application of the THF as to ensure the address’s unique-
ness throughout. More precisely, given a function THF, parameter p, start index
s ∈N, iteration counter i ∈N, message x, and address ad, the chaining function
ChTHF is recursively defined as follows.
ChTHF(p, ad, s, i, x) =
(
x,
if i ≤0
THF(p, ads+i−1, ChTHF(p, ad, s, i −1, x)),
otherwise
Here, ads+i−1 denotes the address resulting from adjusting ad to be the unique
address corresponding to the s + i −1-th call to THF in the considered chain.
Furthermore, this definition requires that the digest space of THF is contained in
its message space; this is invariably the case for the THFs considered throughout
this work. From this definition, we can derive the compositional property of chain
functions that is represented by the following equality, where i, j ∈N, 0 ≤i,
0 ≤j, and the remaining values are as previously specified.
ChTHF(p, ad, s + i, j, ChTHF(p, ad, s, i, x)) = ChTHF(p, ad, s, i + j, x)
Intuitively, this equality states that chaining i times starting from position s —
thus ending in position s+i — and, subsequently, chaining j times from position
s + i is equal to chaining i + j times starting from position s.
3
Approach
Our objectives in this work are basically twofold: First, we seek to formally
verify the security property of XMSS as a standalone construction to increase the
confidence in the security of this standardized scheme; second, we aim to formally
verify the fix of the security proof of SPHINCS+ —and, implicitly, XMSS —
presented in [HK22] as to validate the remediation of the flaw in the original proof
and pave the way for a complete formal verification of SPHINCS+. Fortunately,
when approached appropriately, the first objective can be achieved by extending
7For example, XMSS employs multiple instances of WOTS-TW, each of which is
provided an address to perform its operations with. Since each instance manipulates
and uses the same part of the provided address in an identical manner, XMSS ensures
the part that is not considered by the WOTS-TW instances is different for each instance
in order to still guarantee the uniqueness of the utilized addresses between instances.

Machine-Checked Security for XMSS as in RFC 8391 and SPHINCS+
11
(the results of) the second objective. In essence, this is because SPHINCS+
employs (a variant of) XMSS as building block.
On a high level, XMSS is a Merkle signature scheme; that is, it comprises
a binary hash tree of height h that authenticates the public keys of 2h key
pairs from a One-Time Signature (OTS) scheme. As alluded to before, the OTS
employed in XMSS is (a variant of) WOTS. To reduce the size of the secret key,
the sequence of 2h WOTS secret keys — that originally constitutes the secret
key — is replaced by a single seed used to (re)generate a WOTS secret key from
the sequence whenever required via a PRF. A message is signed by first signing
it with a WOTS secret key and then generating the authentication information
for the corresponding public key. All of the above is the same for XMSS as
standalone and XMSS as building block of SPHINCS+.
There are two principal differences between XMSS as standalone and XMSS
as used in SPHINCS+. Foremost, standalone XMSS compresses messages using
randomized hashing before they are signed. In SPHINCS+, this is not necessary
as messages signed by XMSS are public keys of other instances of signature
schemes; these public keys already have the desired format. Second, the addresses
in SPHINCS+ have a slightly different format than those of standalone XMSS;
nevertheless, their properties are identical.
As in the novel tight security proof for SPHINCS+ [HK22], we describe XMSS
using THFs whenever the input to the hash function includes an address (im-
mediately giving rise to WOTS-TW [HK22] as the employed variant of WOTS),
and base security on the properties of the utilized KHFs and THFs. That is,
we formally verify that XMSS — both as standalone and as in SPHINCS+ — is
secure assuming that the employed KHFs and THFs have certain properties.
This leads to a slightly more abstract description and result than for the “ac-
tual” standardized XMSS, where the utilized THFs are explicitly instantiated
with KHFs (some of which are PRFs) [HBG+18]. Considering this slightly more
abstract version of the standardized XMSS allows for a more natural way of
achieving the above-mentioned objectives and makes the result more general,
but precludes the security analysis of any concrete instantiations of the THFs
(including the ones specified for XMSS in [HBG+18]). Henceforth, we refer to
this slightly more abstract version of standalone XMSS as XMSS-TW; accord-
ingly, we refer to XMSS as used in SPHINCS+ as fixed-length XMSS-TW.
The fixed-length XMSS-TW employed by SPHINCS+ does not achieve the
standard Existential UnForgeability under adaptive Chosen-Message Attacks
(EUF-CMA) security property that we typically expect standalone signature
schemes, such as XMSS-TW, to possess. However, it does achieve the weaker Ex-
istential UnForgeability under Random Message Attacks (EUF-RMA) security
property. Fortunately, because the difference between fixed-length XMSS-TW
and (standalone) XMSS-TW can be seen as an instance of a particular transfor-
mation using the hash-then-sign paradigm, this weaker property of fixed-length

12
M. Barbosa et al.
Figure 10. Overview of the (dependencies between) properties formally verified in this work. Within
each node, the last line states the considered property of the cryptographic construction or function
specified on the preceding lines. Furthermore, the property of the cryptographic construction or func-
tion associated with a node is implied by — or, equivalently, can be reduced from — the conjunction
of the properties of the cryptographic constructions and functions associated with the origin nodes of
the incoming arrows.
XMSS is sufficient to show — in the ROM — that XMSS-TW satisfies the desired
EUF-CMA security property.8
A high-level overview of (the proofs underlying) our formal verification, i.e.,
the relations between the different properties we formally verify, is given in Fig-
ure 10. In this figure, each node signifies a property of a cryptographic construc-
tion or function: The initial lines state the considered construction or function;
the last line states the considered property. Arrows denote the dependencies be-
tween properties; more precisely, the property of a cryptographic construction
associated with a certain node is implied by — or, equivalently, can be reduced
from — the conjunction of the properties of the cryptographic constructions and
functions associated with the origin nodes of the incoming arrows.
The topmost node in Figure 10 states the first objective of this work: The
formal verification of the EUF-CMA security of XMSS-TW. Now, this construc-
tion uses randomized hash-then-sign; that is, it compresses arbitrary-length mes-
sages to fixed-length messages using a KHF indexed by a (pseudo)random value.
This value is freshly generated for each message compression using another
KHF indexed by a (secret) key that is randomly sampled during key genera-
8Although one could consider the SEUF-CMA security notion for XMSS-TW
(which is slightly stronger than EUF-CMA), we refrain from doing so because this
would clutter the overall proof (and formal verification) without providing novel in-
sights or being particularly relevant for most applications.

Machine-Checked Security for XMSS as in RFC 8391 and SPHINCS+
13
tion. This latter KHF is required to be a PRF in order to successfully perform
adaptive reprogramming in the ROM based on the entropy of the values pro-
duced by this KHF. Moreover, the former KHF is required to have M-eTCR.
As shown in [BHRv21], one can construct a reduction from weaker properties,
i.e., some form of target-collision resistance. However, this requires an uncon-
ventional (index-bound) model for stateful signature schemes and their security;
we consider this out-of-scope for this work.
In Figure 10, the two uppermost implications are related to the randomized
hash-then-sign paradigm used in XMSS-TW. The latter of these implications
is (partially) from the EUF-RMA property of fixed-length XMSS-TW which
we, as the figure suggests, further deconstruct as follows. First, we demonstrate
that this property is implied by the PRF property of the KHF employed in
fixed-length XMSS-TW to generate secret keys and the EUF-RMA property
of fixed-length XMSS-TW with uniformly random secret keys. Then, we show
the EUF-RMA property of this variant of fixed-length XMSS-TW is implied by
the SM-DT-TCR-C property of the two THFs used to construct the binary hash
tree, and a variant of the EUF-CMA property specifically devised for WOTS-TW
in [HK22]. However, instead of the original WOTS-TW — in which the secret key
is generated via a PRF — we consider a version with uniformly random secret
keys as a consequence of the PRF-related reduction for XMSS-TW mentioned
above. Finally, we complete the second objective of this work — i.e, the formal
verification of the fix of the security proof of SPHINCS+ presented in [HK22] —
by demonstrating that the SM-DT-UD-C, SM-DT-TCR-C, and SM-DT-PRE-C
properties of the THF employed in WOTS-TW imply this dedicated variant of
the EUF-CMA property.
After formally verifying each of the aforementioned implications, we combine
the results to formally verify that the EUF-CMA security of XMSS-TW can
exclusively be based on the properties of the employed THFs and KHFs (when
the message-compression function is modeled as a random oracle), as desired.
In the subsequent sections, we discuss the formal verification process more
thoroughly in a bottom-up manner; that is, we commence with WOTS-TW, pro-
ceed to fixed-length XMSS-TW, and finish with standalone XMSS-TW. Through-
out this discussion, due to space considerations, we do not present any material
directly from the produced formal verification artifacts. Instead, we go over the
proofs that immediately underlie the formal verification in a manner that ad-
mits a near-direct translation to EasyCrypt and, hence, closely and accurately
represents the formally verified material. Nonetheless, the produced formal ver-
ification artifacts can be found at https://github.com/MM45/FV-XMSS-EC.
4
WOTS-TW
The first explicit specification of (fixed-length) WOTS-TW was provided by
Hülsing and Kudinov in their endeavor to recover the tight security proof of
SPHINCS+ [HK22]. As mentioned in the previous section, this original specifi-
cation compresses the secret key via a PRF which, in our case, already happens

14
M. Barbosa et al.
Algorithm 1 WOTS-TW$’s Public Key From Secret Key Algorithm
1: procedure WOTS-TW$.PkWotsFromSkWots(skWots, ps, ad)
2:
pkWots ←[ ]
3:
for i = 0, . . . , len −1 do
4:
ad.chainIndex ←i
5:
pkWots ←pkWots || CF(ps, ad, 0, w −1, skWots[i])
6:
return pkWots
on the level of XMSS-TW, leading to a variant of WOTS-TW that straightfor-
wardly considers uniformly random secret keys. In the ensuing, we denote this
variant by WOTS-TW$ (and use WOTS-TW to refer to the original version).
Before presenting the actual specification, we go over several preliminar-
ies. Foremost, the construction is defined with respect to parameters n — the
byte-length of (1) secret key, public key, and signature elements, and (2) mes-
sages — and w — the Winternitz parameter, i.e., the radix in which messages
are encoded. From these parameters, the following constants are computed:
len1 = ⌈
8·n
log2(w)⌉(number of w-ary digits necessary to represent any value of
n bytes), len2 = ⌊logw(len1 · (w −1))⌋+ 1 (number of w-ary digits required
to represent any value in the range [0, len1 · (w −1)]), and len = len1 + len2.
In addition to these parameters and constants, WOTS-TW$ employs a THF
with which it constructs function chains. Throughout the remainder, this THF
and the corresponding chaining function are denoted by F and CF(:= ChF), re-
spectively. The message and digest space of F both equal {0, 1}8·n. Moreover,
the parameter and tweak space of F are respectively referred to as the public
seed space PS and address space AD. Certainly, since we primarily consider
WOTS-TW$ as a component of some greater structure such as (fixed-length)
XMSS-TW or SPHINCS+, these spaces may coincide with the corresponding
spaces of the encompassing structure. In any case, we require the addresses to at
least have a chain index — a nonnegative integer indicating the function chain in
question — and a hash index — a nonnegative integer indicating the considered
hash “iteration” within the function chain. As per the definition of a chaining
function, the hash index is assumed to be updated internally by CF such that,
even within a single chain, F is exclusively called with unique addresses. Besides
these indices, the addresses may contain additional nonnegative integers that, for
example, guarantee the uniqueness of the addresses between multiple instances
of WOTS-TW$. As the concrete manifestation of such additional integers is
irrelevant to the current analysis, we leave this unspecified here.
In WOTS-TW$, secret keys, public keys, and signatures consist of a sequence
of len bitstrings, each of length 8 · n. Intuitively, the construction of these arti-
facts goes as follows. First, a secret key sk = sk0 . . . sklen−1 is sampled uniformly
at random from its domain. Then, the corresponding public key is computed by
applying the chaining function to each ski, 0 ≤i < len, for w −1 iterations.
Given a message m ∈{0, 1}8·n, a signature is constructed by first encoding the
message into a sequence of len w-ary digits. This encoding must have the prop-

Machine-Checked Security for XMSS as in RFC 8391 and SPHINCS+
15
Algorithm 2 WOTS-TW$’s Public Key From Signature Algorithm
1: procedure WOTS-TW$.PkWotsFromSig(m, sig, ps, ad)
2:
em ←EncodeMessageWots(m)
3:
pkWots ←[ ]
4:
for i = 0, . . . , len −1 do
5:
ad.chainIndex ←i
6:
pkWots ←pkWots || CF(ps, ad, em[i], w −1 −em[i], sig[i])
7:
return pkWots
Algorithm 3 WOTS-TW$’s Key Generation Algorithm
1: procedure WOTS-TW$.KeyGen(ps, ad)
2:
skWots ←$ U(({0, 1}8·n)len)
3:
pkWots ←WOTS-TW$.PkWotsFromSkWots(skWots, ps, ad)
4:
return pk := (pkWots, ps, ad), sk := (skWots, ps, ad)
Algorithm 4 WOTS-TW$’s Signing Algorithm
1: procedure WOTS-TW$.Sign(sk := (skWots, ps, ad), m)
2:
em ←EncodeMessageWots(m)
3:
sig ←[ ]
4:
for i = 0, . . . , len −1 do
5:
ad.chainIndex ←i
6:
sig ←sig || CF(ps, ad, 0, em[i], skWots[i])
7:
return sig
Algorithm 5 WOTS-TW$’s Verification Algorithm
1: procedure WOTS-TW$.Verify(pk := (pkWots, ps, ad), m, sig)
2:
pkWots′ ←WOTS-TW$.PkWotsFromSig(m, sig, ps, ad)
3:
return pkWots′ = pkWots
erty that, for any other message, it contains at least one digit that is strictly less
than the digit at the same index of the encoding of this other message. Albeit the
majority of WOTS-based constructions — among which WOTS-TW and, hence,
WOTS-TW$ — employ the same approach to encoding, we abstract away from
the concrete approach and show that the results hold for any encoding with the
foregoing property. Nevertheless, for completeness, we additionally demonstrate
that the concrete encoding used by WOTS-TW possesses this property. Here-
after, we denote the operator performing the encoding by EncodeMessageWots.
After encoding m into EncodeMessageWots(m) = d0 . . . dlen−1, the signature is
obtained by applying the chaining function to ski for di iterations, 0 ≤i < len.
Notice that, from a message and its signature, the public key can be computed
by completing the function chains. In fact, computing a public key in this man-
ner and comparing it to the known public key is precisely how a signature is
verified in WOTS-TW$.

16
M. Barbosa et al.
GameM-EUF-GCMA
A,WOTS-TW$,THFC,d
1 :
ps ←$ U(PS)
2 :
OWOTS-TW$.Init(ps)
3 :
OCTHFC.Init(ps)
4 :
AOWOTS-TW$ ,OCTHFC.Choose()
5 :
i, m′, sig′ ←A.Forge(ps)
6 :
ad, m, pkWots ←OWOTS-TW$.A[i], OWOTS-TW$.M[i], OWOTS-TW$.P[i]
7 :
isValid ←WOTS-TW$.Verify((pkWots, ps, ad), m′, sig′)
8 :
isFresh ←m ̸= m′
9 :
return isValid ∧isFresh ∧VADd(OWOTS-TW$.A, OCTHFC.A)
Figure 11. M-EUF-GCMA game for WOTS-TW$.
The specification of WOTS-TW$ is provided in Algorithm 1 through Algo-
rithm 5. Here, the former two are auxiliary algorithms performing tasks necessary
in both WOTS-TW$ and, as defined in the subsequent sections, (fixed-length)
XMSS-TW; the latter three constitute the key generation, signature, and verifi-
cation algorithms, respectively.
Security Property. For the security property of WOTS-TW$, we consider
Multi-instance Existential UnForgeability under Generic Chosen-Message Attack
(M-EUF-GCMA),9 a variant of the EUF-CMA property that was specifically
devised to recover the tight security proof of SPHINCS+ [HK22]. Intuitively,
this property captures the feasibility of forging a signature for any of several
WOTS-TW$ instances after obtaining a signature (and corresponding public
key) on an adaptively chosen address-message pair for each considered instance.
Crucially, the public key of a WOTS-TW$ instance is only given to the adver-
sary after it issued the signature/challenge query for that instance. The forged
signature should be valid with respect to the same address as the observed
signature for that instance of WOTS-TW$. The game that formalizes this prop-
erty, parameterized on the considered THF collection THFC and the number of
WOTS-TW$ instances d, is given in Figure 11; the oracles provided to the ad-
versary in this game are specified in Figure 12 (signature/challenge oracle) and
Figure 9 (collection oracle). As per usual, the adversary is merely given access
to the Query procedures of these oracles.
Akin to the games formalizing the THF properties, GameM-EUF-GCMA
A,WOTS-TW$,THFC,d
is defined with respect to a two-stage adversary: In the first stage, this adversary
is asked to select (up to) d target addresses, receiving corresponding signatures on
chosen messages, while being able to query the considered (indexed) THF collec-
tion; in the second stage, given the public seed used to index F (in WOTS-TW$)
and the considered THF collection, this adversary is asked to provide a signature
on a fresh message that is valid with respect to one of the targets specified in
the first stage. In the end, in addition to the legitimacy of the forgery, the adver-
9In [HK22], the authors introduce this property as D-EF-naCMA.

Machine-Checked Security for XMSS as in RFC 8391 and SPHINCS+
17
OWOTS-TW$
vars ps, A, M,P
Init (psi)
1 :
ps, A, M,P ←psi, [ ], [ ], [ ]
Query (ad, m)
1 :
A, M ←A || ad, M || m
2 :
skWots ←$ U(({0, 1}8·n)len)
3 :
pkWots ←[ ]
4 :
for i = 0, . . . , len −1 do
5 :
ad.chainIndex ←i
6 :
pkWots ←pkWots || CF(ps, ad, 0, w −1, skWots[i])
7 :
em ←EncodeMessageWots(m)
8 :
sig ←[ ]
9 :
for i = 0, . . . , len −1 do
10 :
ad.chainIndex ←i
11 :
sig ←sig || CF(ps, ad, 0, em[i], skWots[i])
12 :
P ←P || pkWots
13 :
return pkWots, sig
Figure 12.
Signature/Challenge
oracle
employed
in
M-EUF-GCMA
game
for
WOTS-TW$.
sary’s behavior throughout the game is validated; this validation is performed
by the VADd(OWOTS-TW$.A, OCTHFC.A) predicate, checking whether the num-
ber of specified target addresses was at most d, whether the target addresses
were unique with respect to the part that can be used to differentiate between
instances of WOTS-TW$ — i.e., the part excluding the aforementioned chain
index and hash index — and whether the target addresses were never used in
queries to the collection oracle. Then, the advantage of any adversary A against
M-EUF-GCMA (of WOTS-TW$) is defined as follows.
AdvM-EUF-GCMA
WOTS-TW$,THFC,d(A) = Pr
h
GameM-EUF-GCMA
A,WOTS-TW$,THFC,d = 1
i
Formal Verification. We presently discuss the (proof of) the security state-
ment for WOTS-TW$ that we formally verify in this work. As depicted in
Figure 10, we aim to demonstrate an implication from (the conjunction of)
the SM-DT-UD-C, SM-DT-TCR-C, and SM-DT-PRE-C properties of F to the
M-EUF-GCMA property of WOTS-TW$. More formally, the security theorem
we prove is the following.
Security Theorem 1 (M-EUF-GCMA for WOTS-TW$). For any adversary
A, there exist adversaries B0, B1, and B2 — each with approximately the same
running time as A — such that the following inequality holds.
AdvM-EUF-GCMA
WOTS-TW$,FC,d(A) ≤(w −2) · AdvSM-DT-UD-C
F,FC,tudf
(B0) + AdvSM-DT-TCR-C
F,FC,ttcrf
(B1)

18
M. Barbosa et al.
+ AdvSM-DT-PRE-C
F,FC,tpref
(B2)
Here, FC denotes an arbitrary THF collection containing F, d ≥1, tudf = d·len,
ttcrf = d · len · w, and tpref = d · len.
Conceptually, the formal verification of the above security theorem closely fol-
lows the original proof presented in [HK22]. Specifically, the formal verification
considers a sequence of two games; in order, we denote these games by Game0
A
and Game1
A. Both of these games only differ from GameM-EUF-GCMA
A,WOTS-TW$,FC,d — and,
hence, each other — with respect to the Query procedure of the challenge or-
acle provided to the adversary. As such, the ensuing exposition of the proof
predominantly focuses on the challenge oracles instead of the games. The ad-
vantage of any adversary A playing in Gamei
A, i ∈{0, 1}, is defined similarly to
AdvM-EUF-GCMA
WOTS-TW$,FC,d(A); we refer to such an advantage as Advi(A). Imminently, we
relate or bound (the differences between) advantages obtained in the games of the
game sequence. Afterward, we combine the obtained results to acquire the afore-
mentioned implication from the desired properties of F to the M-EUF-GCMA
property of WOTS-TW$.
Relation Between AdvM-EUF-GCMA
WOTS-TW$,FC,d(A) and Adv0(A). As hinted at above, the
first game in the game sequence, Game0
A, only differs from GameM-EUF-GCMA
A,WOTS-TW$,FC,d
in the Query procedure of the challenge oracle. Namely, first, the order of the
construction of the public key and signature is reversed; second, the public key
is constructed by finishing the function chains based on the signature instead
of computing the complete function chains based on the secret key. Figure 13
provides the specification of the resulting oracle procedure. Indeed, comparing
OWOTS-TW$.Query and O0.Query, we see that the for-loops (and the preceding
initialization of the variables used in these loops) concerning the computation
of the public key pkWots and signature sig are swapped. Furthermore, rather
than computing the i-th element of pkWots immediately as CF(ps, ad, 0, w −
1, skWots[i]), as O0.Query does, O1.Query computes it as CF(ps, ad, em[i], w −
1−em[i], sig[i]), where sig[i] equals CF(ps, ad, 0, em[i], skWots[i]). However, from
the compositional property of chaining functions (see Section 2), it follows that
CF(ps, ad, em[i], w −1 −em[i], CF(ps, ad, 0, em[i], skWots[i])) = CF(ps, ad, 0, w −
1, skWots[i]); as such, the different computations of the public key are equivalent.
Then, the two Query procedures and, in turn, GameM-EUF-GCMA
A,WOTS-TW$,FC,d and Game0
A
are semantically equivalent. In consequence, we can derive the following result.
∀A : AdvM-EUF-GCMA
WOTS-TW$,FC,d(A) = Adv0(A)
Bound on Difference Between Adv0(A) and Adv1(A). As GameM-EUF-GCMA
A,WOTS-TW$,FC,d
and Game0
A, Game0
A and Game1
A exclusively differ in the Query procedure of
their challenge oracles, the specifications of which are provided in Figure 13.
Collating these procedures, we see that their disparity solely concerns the gen-
eration of the signature: O0.Query properly constructs the signature by applying
the chaining function on each secret key element for the number of iterations in-
dicated by the corresponding element of the encoded message; O1.Query merely

Machine-Checked Security for XMSS as in RFC 8391 and SPHINCS+
19
O0.Query(ad, m)
O1.Query(ad, m)
1 :
A, M ←A || ad, M || m
2 :
skWots ←$ U(({0, 1}8·n)len)
3 :
em ←EncodeMessageWots(m)
4 :
sig ←[ ]
5 :
for i = 0, . . . , len −1 do
6 :
ad.chainIndex ←i
7 :
sig ←sig || CF(ps, ad, 0, em[i], skWots[i])
sig ←sig || (skWots[i] if em[i] = 0 else CF(ps, ad, em[i] −1, 1, skWots[i]))
8 :
pkWots ←[ ]
9 :
for i = 0, . . . , len −1 do
10 :
ad.chainIndex ←i
11 :
pkWots ←pkWots || CF(ps, ad, em[i], w −1 −em[i], sig[i])
12 :
P ←P || pkWots
13 :
return pkWots, sig
Figure 13. Query procedures of the challenge oracles employed in Game0
A (blue boxes)
and Game1
A (yellow boxes). Statements not within colored boxes are executed in both
procedures.
performs the final iteration of each of these applications of the chaining function.
Here, remember that the chaining function essentially reduces to the identity
function whenever the iteration counter is less than or equal to zero. As such, in
both procedures, sig[i] equals skWots[i] if em[i] = 0, where 0 ≤i < len.
Considering their difference, distinguishing between Game0
A and Game1
A in-
tuitively boils down to distinguishing between, for any message and address
(and uniformly random public seed), the signature distribution resulting from
applying the chaining function the appropriate number of times on the elements
of a uniformly random secret key, and the distribution resulting from only ap-
plying the final iteration of the chaining function on the elements of a uni-
formly random secret key. Surely, these distributions should be computationally
indistinguishable if, for any address (and uniformly random public seed), the
output of the chaining function — when applied on a uniformly random value —
remains computationally indistinguishable from a uniformly random value for
up to w −2 iterations. Namely, this would imply that, irrespective of the value
of em[i], CF(ps, ad, 0, em[i] −1, skWots[i]) is computationally indistinguishable
from skWots[i]. Indeed, this is closely related to the SM-DT-UD-C property we
assume F to possess; in fact, by means of a hybrid argument based on the number
of omitted initial applications of F in a call to CF, we can reduce this property to
distinguishing between Game0
A and Game1
A. More precisely, given an adversary
A playing in Game0
A and Game1
A, we can construct a reduction adversary RA
playing in GameSM-DT-UD-C
RA,F,FC,tudf (b) that samples i ∈[0, w −3] uniformly at random,
constructs either the i-th or i + 1-th hybrid — depending on whether its chal-
lenge oracle returns mappings of uniformly random values or returns uniformly

20
M. Barbosa et al.
random values, respectively — and employs A to determine which hybrid it is,
thereby achieving a related advantage in its own game. As a result, abstracting
away the particular reduction adversary, we obtain the following bound.
∀A∃B0 :
Adv0(A) −Adv1(A)
 ≤(w −2) · AdvSM-DT-UD-C
F,FC,tudf
(B0)
Bound on Adv1(A). In the situation where an adversary playing in GameA
1 re-
turns a valid forgery, it must be the case that this forgery allows for the ex-
traction of a collision or a preimage for F. Namely, a forgery in GameA
1 is a
valid signature sig′ on a fresh message m′ under a previously established pub-
lic key pkWots, address ad and public seed ps. That is, there already exists a
valid signature sig on another message m (different from m′) under this public
key, address, and public seed. As m′ and m are different, the message encoding
guarantees that there exists an i, 0 ≤i < len, such that em′[i] < em[i] (where
em′ and em respectively denote the encodings of m′ and m); consequently, for
such an i, the verification algorithm performs more iterations of the chaining
function on sig′[i] than it performs on sig[i]. Nevertheless, since sig and sig′ are
both valid under pkWots, both function chains must result in pkWots[i]. As such,
we can distinguish two cases: CF(ps, ad, em′[i], em[i] −em′[i], sig′[i]) ̸= sig[i] and
CF(ps, ad, em′[i], em[i] −em′[i], sig′[i]) = sig[i]. In the former case, the value of
the function chain of sig′[i] at the same iteration as sig[i] does not equal sig[i].
However, from both of these values, pkWots[i] can be obtained by completing
the function chains in an identical manner as, at this point, the same (number
of) iterations remain for both function chains. Following, since at some point
along the remainder of the function chains the output of F must become equal,
the values in the function chains preceding these equal outputs constitute a col-
lision for F. In the other case, the value of the function chain of sig′[i] at the
same iteration as sig[i] does equal sig[i]. Then, the value in the function chain
of sig′[i] directly preceding the value at the same iteration as sig[i] constitutes a
preimage of sig[i] under F.
In line with the above reasoning, we can construct reduction adversaries that
are witnesses for the following bound.
∀A∃B1,B2 : Adv1(A) ≤AdvSM-DT-TCR-C
F,FC,ttcrf
(B1) + AdvSM-DT-PRE-C
F,FC,tpref
(B2)
Final Result. Combining the foregoing results, we can derive Security Theorem 1
as follows.
∀A∃B0,B1,B2 : AdvM-EUF-GCMA
WOTS-TW$,FC,d(A) = Adv0(A) ≤
Adv0(A) −Adv1(A)
 + Adv1(A) ≤
(w −2) · AdvSM-DT-UD-C
F,FC,tudf
(B0) + AdvSM-DT-TCR-C
F,FC,ttcrf
(B1) + AdvSM-DT-PRE-C
F,FC,tpref
(B2)
Although no formal runtime analysis is provided, it is evident from the prior
discussion (and from the EasyCrypt artifacts) that there exists B0, B1, and B2
that not only satisfy the above inequality, but also execute in approximately the
same time as A. This completes the formal verification of the fix of the security
proof of SPHINCS+ presented in [HK22].

Machine-Checked Security for XMSS as in RFC 8391 and SPHINCS+
21
5
Fixed-Length XMSS-TW
Fixed-length XMSS-TW builds on WOTS-TW and serves as a component of
SPHINCS+. Conceptually, fixed-length XMSS-TW constitutes a binary hash
tree, or Merkle tree, that employs WOTS-TW as its one-time signature scheme
and exclusively processes messages of some fixed length; in fact, this fixed length
matches the fixed length of the messages processed by WOTS-TW. As briefly
elaborated on in Section 4, WOTS-TW only differs from WOTS-TW$ concern-
ing the generation and handling of the secret keys. More precisely, rather than
sampling the secret key uniformly at random and maintaining it in its entirety,
WOTS-TW merely maintains a secret seed — an element from the secret seed
space SS — (re)generating the secret key via a PRF each time it is required. For
the purpose of (re)generating the secret key, WOTS-TW specifies an additional
algorithm, provided in Algorithm 6. In this algorithm, SKWG is a KHF of which
the key space and message space are instantiated with SS and PS ×AD, respec-
tively. Then, the remainder of the algorithms of WOTS-TW are analogous to the
algorithms of WOTS-TW$; as such, we refer to them using the same identifiers,
yet preceded with WOTS-TW instead of WOTS-TW$.
Foremost, we go over several additional preliminaries. Besides the parameters
required for WOTS-TW, fixed-length XMSS-TW is defined with respect to a
parameter h that signifies the height of the tree. From h, since fixed-length
XMSS-TW constitutes a Merkle tree, we can compute the number of leaves as l =
2h. Furthermore, in addition to the THF employed in WOTS-TW, XMSS-TW
utilizes two THFs: one for the compression of WOTS-TW public keys to leaves —
denoted by PKCO — and one for the construction of the tree from the leaves —
denoted by TRC. For both of these THFs, the parameter space and tweak space
are, respectively, PS and AD, identical to those of F. Nevertheless, as fixed-
length XMSS-TW constitutes a larger structure than WOTS-TW, we require
the addresses from AD to — on top of the previously introduced chain index
and hash index required by WOTS-TW — contain a type index, key pair index,
tree height index, and tree breadth index. These indices are nonnegative integers
that, in order, indicate the considered type of operation (either function chaining,
public key compression, or tree construction), the considered WOTS-TW key
pair (or leaf), the height of the considered tree node, and the breadth of the
considered tree node (at the height indicated by the tree height index). Here, the
key pair index is only used for the function chaining and public key compression
operations, and the tree height and tree breadth indices are only used for the tree
construction operation; moreover, the chain and hash indices are only used for
the function chaining operation.10 Finally, besides these indices, the addresses
may comprise other nonnegative integers that, e.g., guarantee the uniqueness of
the addresses when (fixed-length) XMSS-TW is considered in an encompassing
structure such as SPHINCS+. As before, we leave these unspecified.
10Consequently, in practice, it may be the case that, e.g., the chain index and the
tree height index refer to the same location of an address.

22
M. Barbosa et al.
In fixed-length XMSS-TW, key pairs are, intuitively, constructed as follows.
Foremost, a secret key is a four-tuple sk = (i, ss, ps, ad), where i ∈[0, l −1],
ss ∈SS, ps ∈PS, and ad ∈AD. Here, i indicates which WOTS-TW key pair
is supposed to be used for the construction of the next signature. Then, the
public key associated with sk is produced by, first, generating a sequence of l
WOTS-TW secret keys via SKWG. Subsequently, the corresponding sequence of
WOTS-TW public keys is computed and, in turn, transformed into a sequence of
leaves by means of PKCO. Now, this sequence of leaves uniquely defines a Merkle
tree of which we can obtain the root by iteratively computing each of the tree’s
layers. Specifically, in the construction of the layer at height thi, the node at
breadth tbi is computed from its children cl and cr as TRC(ps, adthi,tbi, cl || cr),
where adthi,tbi signifies the address resulting from modifying ad to be the unique
address for the node at height thi and breadth tbi. After obtaining the root
rt, the public key is defined as the three-tuple pk = (rt, ps, ad). Henceforth, we
denote the operator that performs this root computation by RootFromLeaves.
Given a key pair (pk, sk) constructed as described above and a message
m ∈{0, 1}8·n, signatures are, on a high level, created and verified as follows.
First, using the i-th WOTS-TW secret key from the aforementioned sequence
(recall that i is part of sk), a WOTS-TW signature sigWots on m is produced.
Next, a so-called authentication path is computed for the i-th leaf of the Merkle
tree. This path is a sequence of nodes that, in order, comprises the siblings of the
nodes on the path from the root to the i-th leaf. Hereafter, we denote the operator
that computes this authentication path by AuthPath. Given the authentication
path ap, the signature on m is the three-tuple sig = (i, sigWots, ap). Verification
of sig is performed by, first, computing the WOTS-TW public key pkWots cor-
responding to sigWots and compressing it to a leaf lf using PKCO. Afterward, a
candidate root value rt′ for the Merkle tree is computed from lf and ap. Indeed,
this is achieved by reconstructing the path from the i-th leaf to the root by using
lf and the sibling nodes in ap. For example, if the i-th leaf is a left child, the sec-
ond node on the path is reconstructed as p1 = TRH(ps, ad1,j, lf || ap[h−1]), where
j = ⌊i/2⌋; then, if p1 is a right child, the third node on the path is reconstructed
as p2 = TRH(ps, ad2,k, ap[h−2] || p1), where k = ⌊j/2⌋; et cetera.11 Throughout
the remainder, we denote the operator that performs this computation of a can-
didate root by RootFromAuthPath. Finally, if rt′ equals rt, verification succeeds;
otherwise, verification fails.
Following the above description, the specification of fixed-length XMSS-TW
is provided in Algorithm 7 through Algorithm 10. Here, the former is an auxiliary
algorithm for the construction of the leaves from the secret seed, public seed,
and address of the secret key; the latter three constitute the actual key gen-
eration, signing, and verification algorithms, respectively. In these algorithms,
and from this point onward, we explicitly refer to fixed-length XMSS-TW as
FL-XMSS-TW to prevent potential ambiguity with (standalone) XMSS-TW.
11Whether the nodes along the reconstructed path are left or right children can be
determined from the value of i.

Machine-Checked Security for XMSS as in RFC 8391 and SPHINCS+
23
Algorithm 6 WOTS-TW’s Secret Key Generation Algorithm
1: procedure WOTS-TW.SkWotsGen(ss, ps, ad)
2:
skWots ←[ ]
3:
for i = 0, . . . , len −1 do
4:
ad.chainIndex, ad.hashIndex ←i, 0
5:
skWots ←skWots || SKWG(ss, (ps, ad))
6:
return skWots
Algorithm 7 FL-XMSS-TW’s Leaves From Secret Key Algorithm
1: procedure FL-XMSS-TW.LeavesFromSk(ss, ps, ad)
2:
leaves ←[ ]
3:
for i = 0, . . . , l −1 do
4:
ad.typeIndex, ad.keypairIndex ←chainType, i
5:
skWots ←WOTS-TW.SkWotsGen(ss, ps, ad)
6:
pkWots ←WOTS-TW.PkWotsFromSkWots(skWots, ps, ad)
7:
ad.typeIndex ←compressionType
8:
leaves ←leaves || PKCO(ps, ad, pkWots)
9:
return leaves
Algorithm 8 FL-XMSS-TW’s Key Generation Algorithm
1: procedure FL-XMSS-TW.KeyGen(ss, ps, ad)
2:
leaves ←FL-XMSS-TW.LeavesFromSk(ss, ps, ad)
3:
ad.typeIndex ←treeType
4:
rt ←RootFromLeaves(leaves, ps, ad)
5:
return pk := (rt, ps, ad), sk := (0, ss, ps, ad)
Algorithm 9 FL-XMSS-TW’s Signing Algorithm
1: procedure FL-XMSS-TW.Sign(sk := (i, ss, ps, ad), m)
2:
ad.typeIndex, ad.keypairIndex ←chainType, i
3:
sigWots ←WOTS-TW.Sign((ss, ps, ad), m)
4:
leaves ←FL-XMSS-TW.LeavesFromSk(ss, ps, ad)
5:
ad.typeIndex ←treeType
6:
ap ←AuthPath(i, leaves, ps, ad)
7:
return sig := (i, sigWots, ap), sk := (i + 1, ss, ps, ad)
Algorithm 10 FL-XMSS-TW’s Verification Algorithm
1: procedure FL-XMSS-TW.Verify(pk := (rt, ps, ad), m, sig := (i, sigWots, ap))
2:
ad.typeIndex, ad.keypairIndex ←chainType, i
3:
pkWots ←WOTS-TW.PkWotsFromSig(m, sigWots, ps, ad)
4:
ad.typeIndex ←compressionType
5:
lf ←PKCO(ps, ad, pkWots)
6:
rt′ ←RootFromAuthPath(i, lf, ap)
7:
return rt′ = rt
Security Property. As hinted at in Section 3, the security property we con-
sider for FL-XMSS-TW is the EUF-RMA property. However, to be more precise,

24
M. Barbosa et al.
GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW
1 :
ss ←$ U(SS)
2 :
ps ←$ U(PS)
3 :
ad ←A.Choose()
4 :
pk, sk ←FL-XMSS-TW.KeyGen(ss, ps, ad)
5 :
ms, sigs ←[ ], [ ]
6 :
for i = 0, . . . , l −1 do
7 :
m ←$ U({0, 1}8·n)
8 :
sig, sk ←FL-XMSS-TW.Sign(sk, m)
9 :
ms, sigs ←ms || m, sigs || sig
10 :
m′, sig′ ←A.Forge(pk, ms, sigs)
11 :
isValid ←FL-XMSS-TW.Verify(pk, m′, sig′)
12 :
isFresh ←m′ ̸∈ms
13 :
return isValid ∧isFresh
Figure 14. EUF-RMA game for FL-XMSS-TW.
we actually consider a minor variant of this property that accounts for the fact
that FL-XMSS-TW operates on an address that is provided by the environment
and, besides having (valid values for) the previously described indices, may be
arbitrarily structured.12 Ensuring FL-XMSS-TW possesses the desired security
property regardless of the additional components of the provided address, the
variant of EUF-RMA we consider is defined with respect to a two-stage adver-
sary that selects the address to be used in its first stage, and only attempts to
provide a forgery in its second stage. Figure 14 provides the game formalizing
this property. Then, the advantage of any adversary A against EUF-RMA (of
FL-XMSS-TW) is defined as follows.
AdvEUF-RMA
FL-XMSS-TW(A) = Pr
h
GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW = 1
i
Formal Verification. We now go over the (proof of) the security statement con-
cerning FL-XMSS-TW that we formally verify in this work. As illustrated in Fig-
ure 10, we aim to show that the EUF-RMA property of FL-XMSS-TW is implied
by the PRF property of SKWG, the M-EUF-GCMA property of WOTS-TW$,
and the SM-DT-TCR-C property of PKCO and TRC. Specifically, we formally
verify the following security theorem.
Security Theorem 2 (EUF-RMA for FL-XMSS-TW). For any adversary A,
there exist adversaries B0, B1, B2, and B3 — each with approximately the same
running time as A — such that the following inequality holds.
AdvEUF-RMA
FL-XMSS-TW(A) ≤AdvPRF
SKWG(B0) + AdvM-EUF-GCMA
WOTS-TW$,THFC,l(B1)
12For example, as previously mentioned, an address may contain additional indices
that differentiate the context in an encompassing structure.

Machine-Checked Security for XMSS as in RFC 8391 and SPHINCS+
25
+ AdvSM-DT-TCR-C
PKCO,THFC,l
(B2)
+ AdvSM-DT-TCR-C
TRC,THFC,l−1 (B3)
Here, THFC denotes an arbitrary THF collection containing F, PKCO, and TRC.
The formal verification of Theorem 2 proceeds as follows. Foremost, we consider
FL-XMSS-TW$ instead of FL-XMSS-TW to obtain GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW$. Here,
FL-XMSS-TW$ is analogous to WOTS-TW$ in that, rather than (re)generating
the WOTS-TW secret keys via SKWG whenever necessary, it samples these keys
uniformly at random and directly takes them as input whenever they are re-
quired. Alternatively stated, FL-XMSS-TW$ is obtained from FL-XMSS-TW
by replacing the call to WOTS-TW.SkWotsGen in FL-XMSS-TW.LeavesFromSk
with the appropriate sampling operation, and replacing the calls to the remain-
ing WOTS-TW procedures with their WOTS-TW$ analogs. Given these differ-
ences, we reduce from the PRF property of SKWG to distinguishing between
GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW and GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW$. Afterward, considering the situa-
tion in which A returns a valid forgery in GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW$, we perform a case
analysis, allowing us to rephrase the corresponding probability as a sum of sev-
eral terms. Subsequently, we bound each of these terms by providing a reduction
from either the M-EUF-GCMA property of WOTS-TW$, or the SM-DT-TCR-C
property of PKCO or TRC. Altogether, this suffices to derive the desired result.
Bound on Difference Between AdvEUF-RMA
FL-XMSS-TW(A) and AdvEUF-RMA
FL-XMSS-TW$(A). As
alluded to above, the sole semantic difference between GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW and
GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW$ regards the manner in which the secret key is obtained: In
FL-XMSS-TW, the secret key is (re)generated via SKWG each time it is required;
in FL-XMSS-TW$, the secret key is sampled uniformly at random, maintained
as is, and reused whenever it is required. Ergo, given an adversary A playing
in these games, we can straightforwardly construct a reduction adversary RA
achieving an advantage in GamePRF
RA,SKWG(b) that equals the (absolute) difference
between AdvEUF-RMA
FL-XMSS-TW(A) and AdvEUF-RMA
FL-XMSS-TW$(A). Generalizing this result,
we acquire the following bound.
∀A∃B0 :
AdvEUF-RMA
FL-XMSS-TW(A) −AdvEUF-RMA
FL-XMSS-TW$(A)
 ≤AdvSKWG
PRF (B0)
Case Distinction for GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW$ = 1. Considering the situation where
an adversary playing in GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW$ provides a valid forgery, we can dis-
tinguish three (exhaustive) cases. Namely, a valid forgery in GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW$
consists of a message m′ and a signature sig′ = (i′, sigWots′, ap′) such that m′
is fresh and sig′ is valid for m′ under the considered public key pk = (rt, ps, ad).
Now, recall that sig′ being valid for m′ under pk means that the candidate root
rt′ equals the actual root rt. As such, at a certain point along the computation
of rt′, the considered values should coincide with the corresponding values used
in the computation of rt. Building on this observation, the first case we distin-
guish concerns pkWots′, the WOTS-TW$ public key corresponding to sigWots′,

26
M. Barbosa et al.
coinciding with pkWotsi′, the i′-th WOTS-TW$ public key in the sequence used
during key generation and, hence, the computation of rt. As per the verifica-
tion procedure of WOTS-TW$, this means that sigWots′ is a valid signature
for m′ under pkWotsi′; since m′ is fresh, it follows that m′ and sigWots′ form
a valid forgery for the WOTS-TW$ instance corresponding to the i′-th leaf of
the Merkle tree. Henceforth, we denote the event that this first case occurs by
EF . Then, if pkWots′ does not equal pkWotsi′, the second case we distinguish
regards the leaves resulting from the compression of these WOTS-TW$ public
keys coinciding. In this case, the inputs of PKCO are unequal yet map, under the
same public seed and address, to the same output. Consequently, pkWots′ and
pkWotsi′ constitute a collision for PKCO. Hereafter, EP signifies the event that
this second case occurs. Lastly, if both of the preceding cases do not happen,
it must be the case that, from a certain point onward, the reconstructed path
coincides with the corresponding path through the original Merkle tree. Follow-
ing, since the initial (few) nodes along the paths do not coincide, the first node
for which the paths do coincide must be obtained by applying TRC, with the
same public seed and address, on different inputs. As such, these inputs form a
collision for TRC.
Formally, the foregoing can essentially be summarized by the following, where
GA serves as a shorthand for GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW$.
∀A : Pr[GA = 1] =
Pr[GA = 1 ∧EF ] + Pr[GA = 1 ∧¬EF ] =
Pr[GA = 1 ∧EF ] + Pr[GA = 1 ∧¬EF ∧EP ] + Pr[GA = 1 ∧¬EF ∧¬EP ]
Bound on Pr
h
GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW$ = 1 ∧EF
i
. For the case where the (valid)
forgery returned by A in GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW$ comprises a valid forgery for the
indicated WOTS-TW$ instance, we can devise a reduction adversary RA play-
ing in GameM-EUF-GCMA
RA,F,THFC,l
as follows. Foremost, RA produces a sequence of l
WOTS-TW$ signatures and public keys by repeatedly querying its challenge or-
acle on an appropriately updated address (based on the address obtained from
A) and a uniformly random message.13 Then, utilizing the public seed provided
in its second stage, the reduction adversary finishes the generation of, and pro-
vides A with, the FL-XMSS-TW$ signatures and public key corresponding to
the previously produced sequence of WOTS-TW$ signatures and public keys. Fi-
nally, as soon as A returns a (valid) forgery — comprised of, say, message m′ and
signature sig′ = (i′, sigWots′, ap′) — RA straightforwardly extracts and returns
i′, m′, and sigWots′.
Based on the above, we can derive the ensuing result.
∀A∃B1 : Pr
h
GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW$ = 1 ∧EF
i
≤AdvM-EUF-GCMA
WOTS-TW$,THFC,l(B1)
13As such, it suffices to consider l simultaneous WOTS-TW$ instances and, accord-
ingly, only allow l queries to the challenge oracle.

Machine-Checked Security for XMSS as in RFC 8391 and SPHINCS+
27
Bound on Pr
h
GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW$ = 1 ∧¬EF ∧EP
i
. In the case that the (valid)
forgery provided by A in GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW$ does not contain a WOTS-TW$
forgery but does allow for the extraction of a collision for PKCO, we consider
the ensuing reduction adversary RA playing in GameSM-DT-TCR-C
RA,PKCO,THFC,l. First, RA
samples a sequence of l WOTS-TW$ secret keys uniformly at random and, sub-
sequently, computes the corresponding public keys by continually querying its
collection oracle on a properly updated address (based on the address provided
by A) and a function chain element. Afterward, the reduction adversary produces
the corresponding sequence of leaves through its challenge oracle, thereby speci-
fying every WOTS-TW$ public key as a collision target.14 Then, employing the
public seed provided in its second stage, RA constructs, and provides A with, the
FL-XMSS-TW$ signatures (on uniformly random messages) and public key cor-
responding to the formerly obtained sequences. Lastly, when A returns a (valid)
forgery — consisting of, say, message m′ and signature sig′ = (i′, sigWots′, ap′) —
the reduction adversary computes the WOTS-TW$ public key corresponding to
sigWots′ and returns it together with i′.
From the preceding, we can deduce the following bound.
∀A∃B2 : Pr
h
GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW$ = 1 ∧¬EF ∧EP
i
≤AdvSM-DT-TCR-C
PKCO,THFC,l
(B2)
Bound on Pr
h
GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW$ = 1 ∧¬EF ∧¬EP
i
. In the final case, the
(valid) forgery provided by A in GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW$ allows for the extraction
of a collision for TRC; so, we consider a reduction adversary RA playing in
GameSM-DT-TCR-C
RA,PKCO,THFC,l. In essence, this reduction adversary is fairly similar to the
reduction adversary considered in the previous case. Namely, RA commences
identically but produces the leaves by querying its collection oracle instead of
its challenge oracle. Subsequently, the reduction adversary actually computes
the corresponding FL-XMSS-TW$ public key via its challenge oracle; as such,
it specifies all (concatenations of sibling) nodes in the entire Merkle tree as col-
lision targets.15 Then, in its second stage, RA produces the FL-XMSS-TW$
signatures (on uniformly random messages) corresponding to the previously ob-
tained values and provides these signatures, together with the FL-XMSS-TW$
public key, to A. Ultimately, whenever A returns a (valid) forgery, the reduction
adversary computes the corresponding path and searches for the first node on
this path that coincides with the corresponding node in the original Merkle tree.
After finding this node, the reduction adversary returns (the concatenation of)
its children and an integer j such that the j-th query to the challenge oracle
contained the colliding value from the original Merkle tree.
14Thus, allowing for at most l targets is sufficient, as this is precisely the number of
considered WOTS-TW$ public keys.
15Hence, allowing for at most l −1 targets is sufficient, since this is exactly the
number of nodes in the Merkle tree (excluding the leaves).

28
M. Barbosa et al.
Given the foregoing, we can derive the following result.
∀A∃B3 : Pr
h
GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW$ = 1 ∧¬EF ∧¬EP
i
≤AdvSM-DT-TCR-C
TRC,THFC,l−1 (B3)
Final Result. Aggregating the results established above, we can derive Security
Theorem 2 as shown below. In this derivation, GA denotes GameEUF-RMA
A,FL-XMSS-TW$.
∀A∃B0,B1,B2,B3 : AdvEUF-RMA
FL-XMSS-TW(A) ≤
AdvEUF-RMA
FL-XMSS-TW(A) −AdvEUF-RMA
FL-XMSS-TW$(A)
 + AdvEUF-RMA
FL-XMSS-TW$(A) ≤
AdvSKWG
PRF (B0) + AdvEUF-RMA
FL-XMSS-TW$(A) =
AdvSKWG
PRF (B0) + Pr[GA = 1 ∧EF ] + Pr[GA = 1 ∧¬EF ∧EP ]
+ Pr[GA = 1 ∧¬EF ∧¬EP ] ≤
AdvSKWG
PRF (B0) + AdvM-EUF-GCMA
WOTS-TW$,THFC,l(B1) + AdvSM-DT-TCR-C
PKCO,THFC,l
(B2)
+ AdvSM-DT-TCR-C
TRC,THFC,l−1 (B3)
Once again, even though no formal runtime analysis is provided, it is clear from
the preceding discussion (and from the EasyCrypt artifacts) that there exist B0,
B1, B2, and B3 that not only satisfy the above inequality, but also terminate in
approximately the same time as A.
Here, we could trivially combine Security Theorem 1 and Security Theorem 2
to obtain a bound on AdvEUF-RMA
FL-XMSS-TW(A) solely based on the properties of the
employed KHFs and THFs.
6
XMSS-TW
XMSS-TW extends FL-XMSS-TW in a way that allows for the processing of
arbitrary-length messages. In essence, this extension is an instance of the hash-
then-sign paradigm. To this end, XMSS-TW employs two additional KHFs —
MKG and MCO — to compress arbitrary-length messages before executing the
relevant procedures of FL-XMSS-TW. More precisely, MKG is used to generate
an indexing key for MCO; in turn, indexed on this key, MCO is used to com-
press the message. The specification of XMSS-TW is provided in Algorithm 11
(key generation), Algorithm 12 (signing), and Algorithm 13 (verification). Here,
MS denotes the set of indexing keys for MKG, and adc signifies an arbitrary
address that satisfies the requirements for addresses used in FL-XMSS-TW (see
Section 5).
Security Property. As for the majority of standalone signature schemes, we
require XMSS-TW to possess the EUF-CMA security property. However, since
XMSS-TW only allows for the signing of at most l signatures, we consider a
bounded version of EUF-CMA. The game formalizing this property is provided
in Figure 15; the (signature) oracle given to the adversary in this game is specified
in Figure 16. As before, the adversary exclusively gains access to the oracle’s

Machine-Checked Security for XMSS as in RFC 8391 and SPHINCS+
29
Algorithm 11 XMSS-TW’s Key Generation Algorithm
1: procedure XMSS-TW.KeyGen()
2:
ms ←$ U(MS)
3:
ss ←$ U(SS)
4:
ps ←$ U(PS)
5:
ad ←adc
6:
pk, _ ←FL-XMSS-TW.KeyGen(ss, ps, ad)
7:
return pk := (rt, ps, ad), sk := (ms, 0, ss, ps, ad)
Algorithm 12 XMSS-TW’s Signing Algorithm
1: procedure XMSS-TW.Sign(sk := (ms, i, ss, ps, ad), m)
2:
mk ←MKG(ms, i)
3:
cm ←MCO(mk, m)
4:
(i, sigWots, ap), _ ←FL-XMSS-TW.Sign((i, ss, ps, ad), cm)
5:
return sig := (mk, i, sigWots, ap), sk := (ms, i + 1, ss, ps, ad)
Algorithm 13 XMSS-TW’s Verification Algorithm
1: procedure XMSS-TW.Verify(pk := (rt, ps, ad), m, sig := (mk, i, sigWots, ap))
2:
cm ←MCO(mk, m)
3:
ver ←FL-XMSS-TW.Verify(pk, cm, (i, sigWots, ap))
4:
return ver
GameEUF-CMA
A,XMSS-TW
1 :
pk, sk ←XMSS-TW.KeyGen()
2 :
OXMSS-TW.Init(sk)
3 :
m′, sig′ ←AOXMSS-TW.Forge(pk)
4 :
isValid ←XMSS-TW.Verify(pk, m′, sig′)
5 :
isFresh ←m′ ̸∈OXMSS-TW.M
6 :
return isValid ∧isFresh ∧|OXMSS-TW.M| ≤l
OXMSS-TW
vars sk, M
Init(ski)
1 :
sk, M ←ski, [ ]
Query(m)
1 :
M ←M || m
2 :
sig, sk ←XMSS-TW.Sign(sk, m)
3 :
return sig
Figure 15. EUF-CMA game for XMSS-TW.
Figure 16. Signature oracle employed in
EUF-CMA game for XMSS-TW.
Query procedure. Then, the advantage of any adversary A against EUF-CMA
(of XMSS-TW) is defined as follows.
AdvEUF-CMA
XMSS-TW(A) = Pr
h
GameEUF-CMA
A,XMSS-TW = 1
i
Formal Verification. Next, we cover the (proof of) the security statement con-
cerning XMSS-TW that we formally verify in this work. As can be extracted from
Figure 10, we aim to demonstrate that the EUF-CMA property of XMSS-TW is
implied by the PRF property of MKG, the M-eTCR property of MCO, and the
EUF-RMA property of FL-XMSS-TW. More precisely, we formally verify the
following security statement.

30
M. Barbosa et al.
Security Theorem 3 (EUF-CMA for XMSS-TW). Let MCO be a random
oracle. Then, for any adversary A, there exist adversaries B0, B1, and B2 —
each with approximately the same running time as A — such that the following
inequality holds.
AdvEUF-CMA
XMSS-TW(A) ≤AdvPRF
MKG(B0) + AdvM-eTCR
MCO
(B1) + AdvEUF-RMA
FL-XMSS-TW(B2)
+ (qM + qS + 1) · qS
|MS|
+
l
28·n
Here, qM and qS denote the number of queries that A issues to MCO and
OXMSS-TW, respectively.
Evidently, as MCO is assumed to be a random oracle, this security theorem —
and, consequently, its formal verification — manifests itself in the ROM. Intu-
itively, this is required because, at some point, MCO needs to be adaptively
reprogrammed in order to properly simulate the signature oracle. This repro-
gramming induces the additional ((qM + qS + 1) · qS)/|MS| term in the bound.
Furthermore, since MCO is considered to be a random oracle, the corresponding
M-eTCR property essentially becomes a statistical bad event that occurs when
two key-message pairs queried to the random oracle turn out to have the same
output.
Loosely speaking, the formal verification of Security Theorem 3 proceeds as
follows. Foremost, we change GameEUF-CMA
A,XMSS-TW to GameEUF-CMA
A,XMSS-TW$; that is, we
consider XMSS-TW$ instead of XMSS-TW. Here, XMSS-TW$ is nearly iden-
tical to XMSS-TW, merely replacing the call to MKG by a sampling from the
appropriate uniform distribution; accordingly, XMSS-TW$ does not sample and
maintain ms, i.e., the value from XMSS-TW that is exclusively used as input to
MKG. As these constitute the sole differences, we can reduce the PRF property
of MKG to distinguishing between GameEUF-CMA
A,XMSS-TW to GameEUF-CMA
A,XMSS-TW$. Then,
we separate the situation in which an adversary playing in GameEUF-CMA
A,XMSS-TW$
returns a valid forgery into two cases. For both of these cases, we bound the
probability via a reduction from either the M-eTCR property of MCO or the
EUF-RMA property of FL-XMSS-TW. Here, the reduction from the EUF-RMA
property of FL-XMSS-TW requires the consideration of a bad event that gives
rise to the additional l/28·n term in the security theorem. Collectively, this allows
us to acquire the desired result.
Bound on Difference Between AdvEUF-CMA
XMSS-TW(A) and AdvEUF-CMA
XMSS-TW$(A). Consid-
ering the differences between XMSS-TW and XMSS-TW$ described above, we
can — given an adversary A playing in GameEUF-CMA
A,XMSS-TW and GameEUF-CMA
A,XMSS-TW$ —
straightforwardly construct a reduction adversary RA attaining an advantage in
GamePRF
RA,MKG(b) that equals the (absolute) difference between AdvEUF-CMA
XMSS-TW(A)
and AdvEUF-CMA
XMSS-TW$(A). In consequence, we obtain the following bound.
∀A∃B0 :
AdvEUF-CMA
XMSS-TW(A) −AdvEUF-CMA
XMSS-TW$(A)
 ≤AdvPRF
MKG(B0)

Machine-Checked Security for XMSS as in RFC 8391 and SPHINCS+
31
Case Distinction for GameEUF-CMA
A,XMSS-TW$ = 1. In the situation where an adver-
sary playing in GameEUF-CMA
A,XMSS-TW$ provides a valid forgery — consisting of, say,
message m′ and signature sig′ = (mk′, i′, sigWots′, ap′) — we distinguish two (ex-
haustive) cases: In the first case, the provided forgery allows for the extraction
of a (M-eTCR) collision for MCO; in the second case, it does not. More precisely,
in the first case, mk′ and m′ map to the same value under MCO as (at least)
one of the pairs of values used during the signature queries of A. Furthermore,
in the second case, it is possible — by appropriately reprogramming MCO — to
guarantee (up to some bad events) that the forgery for XMSS-TW$ contains a
valid forgery for FL-XMSS-TW with respect to the EUF-RMA property. Here-
after, ECOLL represents the event that the forgery allows for the extraction of a
collision for MCO in the above way.
Formally, the preceding can be summarized by the following equality, where
GA denotes GameEUF-CMA
A,XMSS-TW$.
∀A : Pr[GA = 1] = Pr[GA = 1 ∧ECOLL] + Pr[GA = 1 ∧¬ECOLL]
Bound on Pr
h
GameEUF-CMA
A,XMSS-TW$ = 1 ∧ECOLL
i
. In case the (valid) forgery pro-
vided by A in GameEUF-CMA
A,XMSS-TW$ allows for the extraction of a (M-eTCR) collision
for MCO in the previously described manner, we can trivially construct a reduc-
tion adversary RA playing in GameM-eTCR
RA,MCO that searches for this collision in the
message compressions corresponding to A’s signature queries and returns it. As
a result, we can deduce the following bound.
∀A∃B1 : Pr
h
GameEUF-CMA
A,XMSS-TW$ = 1 ∧ECOLL
i
≤AdvM-eTCR
MCO
(B1)
Bound on Pr
h
GameEUF-CMA
A,XMSS-TW$ = 1 ∧¬ECOLL
i
. In case the (valid) forgery pro-
vided by A in GameEUF-CMA
A,XMSS-TW$ does not allow for the extraction of a collision
for MCO in the above manner, we can construct a reduction adversary RA play-
ing in GameEUF-RMA
RA,FL-XMSS-TW that directly forwards each random oracle query,
but reprograms MCO in every signature query. Specifically, when A issues the
i-th signature query, the reduction adversary samples an indexing key for MCO
uniformly at random and, subsequently, reprograms MCO to map this index-
ing key and the message from the signature query to the message of the i-th
message-signature pair it received from its own game. Afterward, it returns the
signature of the i-th message-signature pair, prepending the previously sampled
indexing key. Indeed, A can only detect this reprogramming if it queried MCO
on an indexing key and message before it issued a signature query with this same
message in which, by pure chance, RA happened to sample the same indexing
key. Thus, since A issues qS signature queries — each of which has a probability
of at most
1
|MS| of coinciding with any of the up to qM random oracle queries
A issued before and any of the up to qS previous reprogrammings as part of sig-
nature queries — the probability that A detects any reprogramming is at most

32
M. Barbosa et al.
((qM +qS)·qS)/|MS|.16 In the ensuing, we denote the event that detection occurs
by EDR. Then, if A does not detect any reprogramming, at some point it returns
a (valid) forgery — comprised of, say, m′ and sig′ = (mk′, i′, sigWots′, ap′) —
for XMSS-TW$ with respect to the EUF-CMA property. Certainly, provided
that MCO(mk′, m′) is still fresh in GameEUF-RMA
RA,FL-XMSS-TW, MCO(mk′, m′) and
(i′, sigWots′, ap′) then constitute a valid forgery for FL-XMSS-TW with respect
to the EUF-RMA property. Given that m′ is fresh in GameEUF-CMA
A,XMSS-TW$ and the
forgery provided by A does not allow for the extraction of a collision for MCO in
the previously discussed way, MCO(mk′, m′) is fresh in GameEUF-RMA
RA,FL-XMSS-TW if
it does not equal any of the messages from the message-signature pairs (provided
to RA) that were not used in answering the signature queries of A. As there
are l message-signature pairs of which each message is independently sampled
uniformly at random, the (bad) event that m′ equals any of the messages from
the unused pairs is at most l/28·n.
Based on the above, we can derive the following result. Here, GA serves as a
shorthand for GameEUF-CMA
A,XMSS-TW$.
∀A∃B2 : Pr[GA = 1 ∧¬ECOLL] =
Pr[GA = 1 ∧¬ECOLL ∧EDR] + Pr[GA = 1 ∧¬ECOLL ∧¬EDR] ≤
(qM + qS + 1) · qS
|MS|
+ AdvEUF-RMA
FL-XMSS-TW(B2) +
l
28·n
Final Result. Amalgamating the results obtained above, we can derive Security
Theorem 3 as follows. In this derivation, GA signifies GameEUF-CMA
A,XMSS-TW$.
∀A∃B0,B1,B2 : AdvEUF-CMA
XMSS-TW(A) ≤
AdvEUF-CMA
XMSS-TW(A) −AdvEUF-CMA
XMSS-TW$(A)
 + AdvEUF-CMA
XMSS-TW$(A) ≤
AdvPRF
MKG(B0) + AdvEUF-CMA
XMSS-TW$(A) =
AdvPRF
MKG(B0) + Pr[GA = 1 ∧ECOLL] + Pr[GA = 1 ∧¬ECOLL] ≤
AdvPRF
MKG(B0) + AdvM-eTCR
MCO
(B1) + AdvEUF-RMA
FL-XMSS-TW(B2)
+ (qM + qS + 1) · qS
|MS|
+
l
28·n
As for the preceding security theorems, even in the absence of a formal runtime
analysis, it is evident from the foregoing discussion (and from the EasyCrypt ar-
tifacts) that there exist B0, B1, and B2 that not only satisfy the above inequality,
but also execute in approximately the same time as A.
At this point, we can straightforwardly combine Security Theorem 1, Security
Theorem 2, and Security Theorem 3 to obtain a bound on AdvEUF-CMA
XMSS-TW(A) that
is exclusively based on the properties of the employed KHFs and THFs. This
16In the final bound, we get an extra one in the numerator. This is merely a proof
artifact caused by the reduction adversary having to make a final query to verify the
forgery.

Machine-Checked Security for XMSS as in RFC 8391 and SPHINCS+
33
completes the formal verification of the security of XMSS-TW as a standalone
construction.
References
ABB+19.
José Bacelar Almeida, Cecile Baritel-Ruet, Manuel Barbosa, Gilles Barthe,
François Dupressoir, Benjamin Grégoire, Vincent Laporte, Tiago Oliveira,
Alley Stoughton, and Pierre-Yves Strub. Machine-checked proofs for crypto-
graphic standards: Indifferentiability of sponge and secure high-assurance
implementations of SHA-3.
In Lorenzo Cavallaro, Johannes Kinder, Xi-
aoFeng Wang, and Jonathan Katz, editors, ACM CCS 2019: 26th Confer-
ence on Computer and Communications Security, pages 1607–1622, Lon-
don, UK, November 11–15, 2019. ACM Press.
BBB+21.
Manuel Barbosa, Gilles Barthe, Karthik Bhargavan, Bruno Blanchet, Cas
Cremers, Kevin Liao, and Bryan Parno. SoK: Computer-aided cryptog-
raphy.
In 2021 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), pages
777–795. IEEE Computer Society, May 2021.
BBF+21.
Manuel Barbosa, Gilles Barthe, Xiong Fan, Benjamin Grégoire, Shih-
Han Hung, Jonathan Katz, Pierre-Yves Strub, Xiaodi Wu, and Li Zhou.
EasyPQC: Verifying post-quantum cryptography.
In Proceedings of the
2021 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Secu-
rity, CCS ’21, page 2564–2586, New York, NY, USA, 2021. Association for
Computing Machinery.
BCG+12.
Gilles Barthe, Juan Manuel Crespo, Benjamin Grégoire, César Kunz, and
Santiago Zanella Béguelin.
Computer-aided cryptographic proofs.
In
Lennart Beringer and Amy Felty, editors, Interactive Theorem Proving,
pages 11–27, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2012. Springer Berlin Heidelberg.
BGLZ11.
Gilles Barthe, Benjamin Grégoire, Yassine Lakhnech, and Santiago Zanella
Béguelin. Beyond provable security verifiable IND-CCA security of OAEP.
In Aggelos Kiayias, editor, Topics in Cryptology – CT-RSA 2011, volume
6558 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 180–196, San Francisco,
CA, USA, February 14–18, 2011. Springer, Heidelberg, Germany.
BHK+19.
Daniel J. Bernstein, Andreas Hülsing, Stefan Kölbl, Ruben Niederhagen,
Joost Rijneveld, and Peter Schwabe. The SPHINCS+ signature framework.
In Lorenzo Cavallaro, Johannes Kinder, XiaoFeng Wang, and Jonathan
Katz, editors, ACM CCS 2019: 26th Conference on Computer and Commu-
nications Security, pages 2129–2146, London, UK, November 11–15, 2019.
ACM Press.
BHRv21.
Joppe W. Bos, Andreas Hülsing, Joost Renes, and Christine van Vre-
dendaal.
Rapidly verifiable XMSS signatures.
IACR Transactions on
Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded Systems, 2021(1):137–168, 2021.
https://tches.iacr.org/index.php/TCHES/article/view/8730.
CAD+20.
David Cooper, Daniel Apon, Quynh Dang, Michael Davidson, Morris
Dworkin, and Carl Miller. Recommendation for stateful hash-based sig-
nature schemes, 2020-10-29 00:10:00 2020.
CHH+17.
Cas Cremers, Marko Horvat, Jonathan Hoyland, Sam Scott, and Thyla van
der Merwe. A comprehensive symbolic analysis of TLS 1.3. In Bhavani M.
Thuraisingham, David Evans, Tal Malkin, and Dongyan Xu, editors, ACM
CCS 2017: 24th Conference on Computer and Communications Security,

34
M. Barbosa et al.
pages 1773–1788, Dallas, TX, USA, October 31 – November 2, 2017. ACM
Press.
GH19.
Emily Grumbling and Mark Horowitz. Quantum Computing: Progress and
Prospects. National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. The
National Academies Press, 1st edition, April 2019.
GHHM21. Alex B. Grilo, Kathrin Hövelmanns, Andreas Hülsing, and Christian Ma-
jenz. Tight adaptive reprogramming in the QROM. In Mehdi Tibouchi
and Huaxiong Wang, editors, Advances in Cryptology – ASIACRYPT 2021,
Part I, volume 13090 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 637–667,
Singapore, December 6–10, 2021. Springer, Heidelberg, Germany.
HBG+18.
Andreas Huelsing, Denis Butin, Stefan-Lukas Gazdag, Joost Rijneveld, and
Aziz Mohaisen. XMSS: eXtended Merkle Signature Scheme. RFC 8391,
May 2018.
HK22.
Andreas Hülsing and Mikhail Kudinov. Recovering the tight security proof
of SPHINCS+. In Shweta Agrawal and Dongdai Lin, editors, Advances in
Cryptology – ASIACRYPT 2022, pages 3–33, Cham, 2022. Springer Nature
Switzerland.
HMS22.
Andreas Hülsing, Matthias Meijers, and Pierre-Yves Strub. Formal verifi-
cation of Saber’s public-key encryption scheme in EasyCrypt. In Yevgeniy
Dodis and Thomas Shrimpton, editors, Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO
2022, pages 622–653, Cham, 2022. Springer Nature Switzerland.
HRS16.
Andreas Hülsing, Joost Rijneveld, and Fang Song. Mitigating multi-target
attacks in hash-based signatures. In Chen-Mou Cheng, Kai-Min Chung,
Giuseppe Persiano, and Bo-Yin Yang, editors, PKC 2016: 19th Interna-
tional Conference on Theory and Practice of Public Key Cryptography,
Part I, volume 9614 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 387–416,
Taipei, Taiwan, March 6–9, 2016. Springer, Heidelberg, Germany.
KKF20.
Mikhail Kudinov, Evgeniy Kiktenko, and Aleksey Fedorov.
[pqc-forum]
round 3 official comment: Sphincs+.
https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/
media/Projects/post-quantum-cryptography/documents/round-3/
official-comments/Sphincs-Plus-round3-official-comment.pdf,
2020. Accessed: 2022-2-1.
KM19.
Neal Koblitz and Alfred J. Menezes. Critical perspectives on provable se-
curity: Fifteen years of “another look” papers. Advances in Mathematics of
Communications, 13(4):517–558, 2019.
MCF19.
David McGrew, Michael Curcio, and Scott Fluhrer. Leighton-Micali Hash-
Based Signatures. RFC 8554, April 2019.
Mos18.
Michele Mosca. Cybersecurity in an era with quantum computers: Will we
be ready? IEEE Security & Privacy, 16:38–41, September 2018.
NIS16.
NIST.
National Institute for Standards and Technology. announc-
ing
request
for
nominations
for
public-key
post-quantum
crypto-
graphic algorithms., December 2016. https://csrc.nist.gov/News/2016/
Public-Key-Post-Quantum-Cryptographic-Algorithms.
NIS22.
NIST. National Institute for Standards and Technology. PQC standard-
ization process: Announcing four candidates to be standardized, plus
fourth round candidates., March 2022.
https://csrc.nist.gov/News/
2022/pqc-candidates-to-be-standardized-and-round-4.
PKC22.
Ray Perlner, John Kelsey, and David Cooper.
Breaking category five
SPHINCS+ with SHA-256. In Jung Hee Cheon and Thomas Johansson,
editors, Post-Quantum Cryptography, pages 501–522, Cham, 2022. Springer
International Publishing.

Machine-Checked Security for XMSS as in RFC 8391 and SPHINCS+
35
Zha19.
Mark Zhandry. How to record quantum queries, and applications to quan-
tum indifferentiability. In Alexandra Boldyreva and Daniele Micciancio,
editors, Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2019, Part II, volume 11693
of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 239–268, Santa Barbara, CA,
USA, August 18–22, 2019. Springer, Heidelberg, Germany.

