Multimodal Private Signatures
Khoa Nguyen(B)
, Fuchun Guo
, Willy Susilo
, and Guomin Yang
Institute of Cybersecurity and Cryptology,
School of Computing and Information Technology,
University of Wollongong, Northﬁelds Avenue, Wollongong, NSW 2522, Australia
{khoa,fuchun,wsusilo,gyang}@uow.edu.au
Abstract. We introduce Multimodal Private Signature (MPS) - an
anonymous signature system that oﬀers a novel accountability feature:
it allows a designated opening authority to learn some partial informa-
tion op about the signer’s identity id, and nothing beyond. Such partial
information can ﬂexibly be deﬁned as op = id (as in group signatures),
or as op = 0 (like in ring signatures), or more generally, as op = Gj(id),
where Gj(·) is a certain disclosing function. Importantly, the value of
op is known in advance by the signer, and hence, the latter can decide
whether she/he wants to disclose that piece of information. The con-
cept of MPS signiﬁcantly generalizes the notion of tracing in traditional
anonymity-oriented signature primitives, and can enable various new and
appealing privacy-preserving applications.
We formalize the deﬁnitions and security requirements for MPS. We
next present a generic construction to demonstrate the feasibility of
designing MPS in a modular manner and from commonly used crypto-
graphic building blocks (ordinary signatures, public-key encryption and
NIZKs). We also provide an eﬃcient construction in the standard model
based on pairings, and a lattice-based construction in the random oracle
model.
Keywords: new models · anonymous authentications ·
accountability · ﬁne-grained information disclosure · modular
constructions · zero-knowledge · lattices · pairings
1
Introduction
Privacy is a fundamental human right and is an interdisciplinary area of study [53].
In the digital era, where most of our daily communications are done over computer
networks, the problem of privacy protection has become increasingly important
and challenging. On the other hand, the development of information technology
and cryptography also brings new technical solutions for privacy protection. Since
the 1980s [16], various privacy-preserving cryptographic protocols have been pro-
posed for this purpose. This essential area gets a lot of traction not only because of
growing practical demands, but also due to its great theoretical interests. Indeed,
designing these advanced systems is highly challenging, as they typically require
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
Y. Dodis and T. Shrimpton (Eds.): CRYPTO 2022, LNCS 13508, pp. 792–822, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15979-4_27

Multimodal Private Signatures
793
not only basic algorithms but also non-trivial and specially-developed tools such
as ledge proofs [27] - a beautiful tool allowing to prove the truth of given state-
ments without revealing any additional information.
While privacy-sensitive users want to protect their anonymity as much as pos-
sible, excessive privacy could be abused for illegal or inappropriate activities.
Hence, from the system authorities’ viewpoint, all users who carry out problem-
atic activities should be kept accountable. Thus, there is an uneasy “privacy vs
accountability” tension corresponding to the incentives of users and authorities.
In privacy-preserving cryptosystems focusing on anonymity that had been pro-
posed before the year 2021, either the users are granted absolute anonymity and
can never be traced [3,44,50], or there exists an authority who can break users’
privacy without their consent [17,18,24,36]. In other words, these systems always
lean rigidly, either in favour of the users or of the authorities. A breakthrough in
tackling the “privacy vs accountability” tension was recently put forward in [42],
which introduced Bifurcated Anonymous Signatures (BiAS) - a novel primitive
in which whether the signer of a given signature can have absolute anonymity or
can be traced is made context-dependent and is known to the signer at the time
of signature generation. As a result, tracing can only be done with users’ consent
on the one hand, and no traceable signature can escape being traced on the other
hand. This primitive provides a reasonably fair setting for both authorities and
users and seems to have oﬀered a satisfying resolution for the discussed tension.
However, a crucial disadvantage of BiAS and of previous proposals is that
accountability is realized via a total tracing procedure, during which all the per-
sonal identifying information of the traced users must be disclosed to the author-
ities. This level of accountability is indeed a serious violation of users’ privacy.
Note that, while privacy is a complicated notion that has diﬀered throughout
history [53], in its purest sense, it can be deﬁned as the right of an individual to
control which information about herself or himself can be disclosed [45]. Further-
more, in many real-life situations, it is not necessarily the authorities’ highest
priority to perform a total tracing. For instance, the authorities could only be
interested in learning whether an anonymous user is over 18 years old, or works
in a given organization, or lives in a particular area, or has been fully vaccinated
against COVID-19, or has an annual income exceeding certain threshold. In the
following, let us discuss several concrete examples.
Consider the scenario where an anonymous ﬁnancial transaction (such as
the privacy-preserving cryptocurrency Monero [47]) with a hidden amount of
money is used to conduct online transactions. When an amount less than $100
is transferred, then the transaction will be anonymous to everyone, including the
authority. However, when an amount between $100 and $1,000 is transferred, the
authority will be able to evaluate partial information about the sender, namely
which country the sender originated from. When an amount between $1,000
and $10,000 is transferred, then the authority will be able to identify the coun-
try and the organization where the transfer originated from. When an amount
larger than $10,000 is transferred, then the identity of the individual from the
organization in that speciﬁc country will be identiﬁed. In other words, depending

794
K. Nguyen et al.
on the underlying transaction amounts, the authority can learn diﬀerent pieces
of information about the sender. There are four diﬀerent levels of information
disclosure in the above scenario.
A more simplistic scenario can be related to an IP address, which is of the
form of w.x.y.z. When a small transaction is issued, then the authority will not
be able to learn any information about the address. However, when a medium
range of transactions is issued, then the authority will be able to compute w.x.*.*,
which denote the range of IP addresses within an organization. Finally, then a
large transaction is issued, then the full IP address can be identiﬁed.
As another example, imagine the situation where a data broker company
quietly sells people’s personal information to others. While this activity is ille-
gitimate, especially with the introduction of GDPR (General Data Protection
Regulation), this kind of activity remains happening in the wild. Suppose a
whistleblower who works in the data broker company, wants to “leak” this infor-
mation to the authority. The purpose is to allow the authority to trace the
data broker company while protecting the whistleblower’s identity. Therefore, it
is essential that the whistleblower can still sell the data from the data broker
correctly. Those data eventually will trigger the authority to ﬁnd some partial
identity information from the whistleblower, which points to the data broker
company.
Unfortunately, all existing cryptographic methods fail to oﬀer such type of
balance between privacy and accountability, i.e., a setting in which authorities
can only learn the piece of partial information about the user that the latter
would like to disclose - and nothing else. Providing such ﬁne-grained accountable
privacy is a highly important and desirable research goal, and addressing it would
likely require truly innovative technical ideas and approaches.
Our Contributions. We put forward the concept of “Multimodal Private
Signatures” (MPS), which provides a novel approach for private information
disclosure in anonymity-oriented authentication systems. In an MPS scheme,
registered users can generate signatures that remain anonymous to the public,
but can be opened by the authority to some partial information op on the identity
of the signer. Such partial information can ﬂexibly be deﬁned as op = id (as in
group signatures), or as op = 0 (like in ring signatures), or more generally, as
op = G(id), where G(·) is certain “disclosing function”. Importantly, the value of
op is known in advance by the signer, and hence, the latter can decide whether
she/he wants to disclose that piece of information.
In group signature, the disclosing function G(·) is basically the identity func-
tion, and in BiAS, G(·) is an all-or-nothing function. However, as mentioned in
the examples motivating MPS, a set of more ﬂexible and ﬁne-grained disclos-
ing functions are demanded to balance privacy and accountability in diﬀerent
applications. In MPS, this is achieved via two steps: ﬁrst, we introduce a signing
function F that determines whether a message M is valid (e.g., the transaction
amount is below the limit set by the monetary authority), and if so, the critical
level j of M; secondly, we deﬁne a family of disclosing functions G = {Gj(·)}
that discloses the appropriate level of identity information (i.e., Gj(id)) to the

Multimodal Private Signatures
795
opening authority based on the critical level of M. It is worth noting that, for
privacy purposes, we also want to hide the critical level j, meaning M could
be a transformation of the real “message”, which we call the witness w of M.
Looking ahead, in the pairing-based and lattice-based constructions presented
in this paper, we use M = COM(w) where COM(·) denotes a secure commitment
scheme. Clearly, the privacy against the opening authority in MPS is more intri-
cate than that in other traceable anonymous signatures. Speciﬁcally, we require
that the opening authority learns only Gj(id) from a valid signature but nothing
else.
More formally, an MPS system is associated with a collection of signing
functions F and a collection of disclosing functions {G1, . . . , GK}. When user
id would like to sign a message M with respect to signing function F ∈F,
it computes j = F(M, w, id) ∈[0, K], where w is a “witness” - a context-
dependent piece of information available to the user (that intuitively explains
why F(M, w, id) = j). The value of j governs the signability of (M, w, id) as well
as the accountability of the resulting signature. Speciﬁcally, if j = 0, then id is
not allowed to sign. Otherwise, then id should be able to obtain a valid signature
that can be opened by the authority to the value Gj(id).
The concept of MPS could enable various appealing applications that previ-
ously have not been considered or realized. Apart from the examples we discussed
above, let us provide a few more illustrating scenarios.
In the context of anonymous surveys, one may implement an MPS system
allowing the survey conductor to learn some speciﬁc piece of information (e.g.,
age, gender, location) about participants who provided answers that meet certain
conditions (with the participant’s consensus). As for private access to buildings
or to online systems, the administrator may also use an MPS system so that to
gain certain statistics about the characteristics or activities of the anonymous
visitors. From another perspective, the signers may also use MPS to purposely
send some information to the authorities, e.g., for claiming the ﬁnancial incen-
tives of releasing the signed messages.
Let us consider another hypothetical scenario concerning paper submissions
and reviews for a conference. An MPS system can help to keep both the authors
and the reviewers anonymous to the PC chair, yet allowing the latter to check
for CoI (Conﬂict of Interest). To this end, when submitting a paper, the author
signs the paper together with a commitment c to her identity id. The chair can
set up the system so that he can open the author’s aﬃliation z based on the
signature. If the paper is later accepted, the author can open c to reveal id and
claim authorship. Meanwhile, PC members can anonymously post comments
on the paper, yet disclose their aﬃliation z′ to the chair. The latter hence can
oversee if a CoI has occurred. Moreover, if a PC member would like to post a
negative comment on the paper, such as “I previously reviewed this paper and
the authors did not take my comments into account.”, then it should be backed
up with a legitimate witness w. Such a setting therefore can provide a much
higher level of privacy protection than contemporary conference management
systems.

796
K. Nguyen et al.
Having convinced ourselves that MPS is a highly interesting concept, we come
to the next steps: formal deﬁnitions and technical constructions for MPS.
Formalizations of MPS. To formalize MPS, we follow the setting of dynamic
group signatures [5,33], that was also employed in [42]. Namely, an MPS
scheme is a tuple of algorithms (Setup, ⟨Join; Issue⟩, Sign, Verify, Open).
The main diﬀerences here is that MPS additionally relies on signing functions
F ∈F to control signability of (M, w, id) and disclosing functions G1, . . . , GK
to realize partial information disclosure. Correctness ensures that as long as
j = F(M, w, id) ̸= 0 where id is a joined user, then the resulting signature Σ
should be accepted by the veriﬁcation algorithm and should be opened to Gj(id).
Regarding security, we demand two major requirements: privacy and unforge-
ability. For each of these notions, we consider two types of adversary.
Regarding privacy, the ﬁrst type of adversary can corrupt everyone in the sys-
tem, except the opening authority. This adversary acts like the CCA2-anonymity
adversary in group signatures. It is given the secret key of the group manager
(GM) - who is in charge of user enrolments, as well as signing keys of all users. It
is not allowed to corrupt the opening authority (OA), but it can adaptively query
the opening oracle. Roughly speaking, we require that it should be infeasible for
this adversary to learn any information about the signer id beyond the fact that
M is signable for id. The second type of privacy adversary is even stronger, as it
is even allowed to corrupt the OA. For this adversary, we require that no addi-
tional information beyond Gj(id) can be learned. (Note that the OA can always
learn Gj(id)).
As for unforgeability, we would like to capture several requirements. First, it
should be infeasible for signer with identiﬁer id to generate a valid signature Σ
associated with (M, F) if F(M, w, id) = 0. Second, it should also be infeasible to
“mislead” the signature opening: if Open outputs op, then we expect that there
exists a registered id whose valid signing key was used by the signer as well as a
witness w such that op = GF (M,w,id)(id). Third, we demand that, no one, even a
coalition of a corrupted GM and a corrupted OA, can issue signatures on behalf
of honest user id. Note that the last two requirements resemble the notions of
full-traceability and non-frameability in dynamic group signatures [5,33].
However, formally deﬁning unforgeability for MPS is a considerably non-
trivial task. The main reason is that the original algorithms in the system do
not provide a rigorous mechanism to determine whether a tuple (M ⋆, F ⋆, Σ⋆)
forms a valid forgery. In particular, invoking Open only provides us with a value
op, which does not allow us to answer crucial questions such as: (i) Is message
M ⋆actually signable with respect to F ⋆and some id? (ii) Is this the case that
op = GF (M ⋆,w′,id′)(id′) for some (id′, w′)? Therefore, for deﬁnitional purposes, we
would need to introduce certain auxiliary algorithms, namely, SimSetup and
Extract, that allow us to extract additional information, e.g., some identity id′
and some witness w′, so that we can meaningfully explain whether and how a
forgery has occurred. We note that, previous works such as [3,42] also had to
overcome similar situations.

Multimodal Private Signatures
797
Generic Constructions. Next, to demonstrate the feasibility of building
MPS based on standard assumptions and in a modular manner, we provide
a generic construction. The construction makes use of common cryptographic
tools including ordinary signatures, public-key encryption, and non-interactive
zero-knowledge (NIZK) proofs/arguments with two (indistinguishable) modes:
a hiding mode with statistical zero-knowledge, and a binding mode with statis-
tical soundness and extractability. At a high level, the construction follows the
classical sign-then-encrypt-then-prove paradigm that is typically used for build-
ing group signatures [4,17]. The main diﬀerence here is that we do not encrypt
the signer’s identity id (as in group signatures) or “id or 0” (as in BiAS [42]).
Instead, we let the signer encrypt the function value op = Gj(id) and prove the
well-formedness of the resulting ciphertext - which includes proving knowledge of
(id, w) such that op = GF (M,w,id)(id) is contained in the ciphertext. While such
involved statements can be proved in zero-knowledge using well-known NIZK
systems for NP such as [29,49], the resulting proofs/arguments would likely have
sizes depending on the sizes of the circuits computing functions F, G1, . . . , GK.
Theoretically speaking, the dependency of the proof size (and hence, of the
signature size) can potentially be reduced by using advanced techniques such
as fully-homomorphic encryption (FHE) [25,42], for which the main idea is
to compute over encrypted data so that to (publicly) obtain a ciphertext that
will decrypt to GF (M,w,id)(id). Nevertheless, using FHEs in that manner would
require signiﬁcant computation costs and/or a large number of initial ciphertexts,
and could end up being less eﬃcient than the usual sign-then-encrypt-then-prove
approach. We also investigate the potential of eﬃciently constructing MPS based
on functional encryption (FE) [7], since the idea that decryption reveals a func-
tion of id is closely related to the spirit of FE. However, we have been unable to
progress in this direction: the main obstacle is to ensure that only Gj(id) can be
revealed via opening. For instance, giving the opening authority all the decryp-
tion keys corresponding to (G1, . . . , GK) would not work well, as the authority
may additionally learn the index j. We therefore stick with the usual design
approach, and leave eﬃcient FHE-based and FE-based constructions of MPS as
appealing open questions.
Our sign-then-encrypt-then-prove construction can also have eﬃciency
advantage when we instantiate the system with concrete signing and disclos-
ing functions, the correct evaluations of which can be eﬃciently proved in zero-
knowledge. As illustrations, we provide a relatively eﬃcient pairing-based con-
struction in the standard model, as well as a lattice-based scheme in the random
oracle model (ROM) that potentially enjoys post-quantum security. To be more
speciﬁc, in both instantiations, we consider G to be a family of linear transforma-
tion functions on id, which are suﬃcient for many of the motivating applications.
Pairing-Based Constructions in the Standard Model. We present an
instantiation of the generic construction under pairing groups. The core compo-
nents of the construction include the Groth-Sahai proof system [30], a structure-
preserving signature (SPS) scheme [35], the Boneh-Boyen (BB) signature [6] and
a tag-based PKE [34].

798
K. Nguyen et al.
We can apply the aforementioned tools to construct eﬃcient group signatures
without random oracles, as shown in [28]. The main challenge to construct an
MPS is handling the disclosed identity information Gj(id). Diﬀerent from group
signature, we need to ensure not only the encrypted Gj(id) matches the real id
but also the disclosing function Gj(·) is the correct function to be applied.
In our construction, we consider a message M ∈G1 being signed to be a
Pedersen commitment [48] for some value v ∈Zp. The disclosing function to be
applied when signing a message depends on the value of v. For simplicity, in our
instantiation, we consider 4 possible ranges [Aj−1, Aj) (1 ≤j ≤4), and for each
range, we deﬁne a disclosing function Gj(id). When generating a signature on
M, the signer needs to compute a ciphertext ct of Gj(id) under the OA’s public
key opk and then prove that
M = COM(v) ∧Aj−1 ≤v < Aj ∧ct = Enc(opk, Gj(id)).
To ensure the correct extraction of Gj(id), we need to extract the value v from
the NIZK proof. However, the Groth-Sahai proof does not support the extraction
of a random value in Zp. To address this issue, we convert the above statement
by utilizing the homomorphic property of the Pedersen commitment. Instead
of proving Aj ≤v < Aj+1, we let the signer represent the value committed in
M/gAj, i.e., v −Aj, as a k-bit binary number, so that each bit can be extracted.
In addition, to extract the speciﬁc range, among all the possible ranges, the value
v actually falls in, we add two additional bits and express the proof statement
in the form of an OR-statement, where the additional bits point to the real
statement being proved.
Lattice-Based Constructions. While it is feasible to instantiate MPS in
the standard model via the lattice-based NIZK techniques of Peikert and
Shiehian [49], such a construction would expectedly be extremely ineﬃcient. Here,
our goal is to build more eﬃcient constructions in the ROM, where we can employ
concrete techniques for obtaining interactive ZK arguments for lattice-based rela-
tions, and then remove interaction via the Fiat-Shamir transformation [22].
Similar to our pairing-based construction, here we consider the setting with
1 signing function F and 4 disclosing functions. We also let message M be a
commitment to witness w and deﬁne j = F(M, w) ∈[0, 4] based on integer
ranges. We consider 4 disclosing functions, and for each j ∈[1, 4] deﬁne Gj
as a linear endomorphism over Zk
2. Speciﬁcally, let G1, G2, G3, G4 ∈Zk×k
2
be
public matrices, then let Gj(id) := Gj · id. This deﬁnition is quite general and
expressive, in the sense that it captures many natural ways to disclose partial
information about id. For instance, we can set G1 = 0k×k and G4 = Ik, so that
G1(id) = 0 (i.e., non-traceable case) and G4(id) = id (i.e., fully traceable case).
We can also easily deﬁne G2, G3 so that G2(id), G3(id) each reveals a speciﬁc
subset of coordinates of id.
Our construction is proven secure under the Learning With Errors (LWE)
and the Short Integer Solutions (SIS) assumptions. The construction employs
the following lattice-based building blocks: (i) the KTX SIS-based commitment
scheme [31]; (ii) the SIS-based signature scheme from [37], which admits eﬃcient

Multimodal Private Signatures
799
zero-knowledge arguments of knowledge of a valid message-signature pair; (iii)
an LWE-based CCA2-secure PKE scheme obtained from the GPV IBE [26]
and the CHK transformation [14]; (iv) a SIS-based one-way function [1]; and
(v) an interactive statistical ZK argument system that can handle relatively
sophisticated linear and quadratic relations with respect to two moduli (q1 = 2
and q2 > 2) and that is compatible with the signature scheme from [37]. Indeed,
we need to prove in ZK that a plaintext y, encrypted under the GPV IBE
scheme, is exactly the value Gj(id), which is the major technical diﬃculty in our
design process. To this end, we adapt the Stern-like [52] framework from [40] and
then, employ several dedicated techniques to capture the relation y = Gj(id) by
equations modulo 2, that are compatible with the framework. We note that,
there are more eﬃcient systems, such as [9,20,21,55], however, they are not
known to be applicable to the two-moduli setting here.
Related Work. There has been a vast body of work on anonymity-oriented
signature systems. One of the most prominent examples is group signature [17],
in which registered users are allowed to anonymously sign any message, but are
fully traceable by the opening authority. Group signature thus can be viewed
as a special case of MPS with a single disclosing function G(id) = id. Ring sig-
nature [50], another well-known primitive, provides anonymity with no tracing,
yet can also be seen as an MPS system with G(id) = 0. Accountable ring signa-
ture [8,54] oﬀers either the ring-signature functionality or the group-signature
functionality, but the two modes are separated and distinguishable. Bifurcated
anonymous signature (BiAS) [42], a recently proposed concept, simultaneously
provide both “ring-signature mode” and “group-signature mode”, as well as
indistinguishability between the two modes. BiAS is therefore a special case of
MPS, with two disclosing functions G1(id) = 0 and G2(id) = id (but no signing
functions).
There have also been various attempts to increase the privacy of signers
against the opening authorities in group signatures, such as traceable signa-
tures [32], group signatures with message-dependent opening [51], accountable
tracing signatures [36] or threshold group signatures [11]. In the reverse direc-
tion are proposals that aim to increase signers’ accountability, such as traceable
ring signatures [23], e-cash-related primitives [12,13] and traceable attribute-
based signatures [19]. However, in all these systems, the disclosing functions,
once activated, would reveal the full identity, i.e., G(id) = id.
Attribute-based signature [44] and predicate signature [2,46] provide ﬁne-
grained controls on “who can sign”, while policy-based signature [3] and func-
tional signature [10] govern “which messages can be signed”. These controls of
signability can also be viewed as instances of MPS’s signing functions F(M, w, id)
(with restricted function range {0, 1}, rather than [0, K]).
As a summary, MPS does capture the appealing features of the primitives
listed above, and does further generalize and empower them in several dimen-
sions. In particular, the attractive generalization from all-or-nothing tracing of
signer’s identity to ﬁne-grained disclosure of signer’s partial information could
have a great impact in this research area.

800
K. Nguyen et al.
At a high level, our conception of MPS based on group signature somewhat
resembles the revolutionizing conception of functional encryption [7] over ordi-
nary PKE, in the sense that the decrypting/opening procedure can only reveal
a function of the plaintext/identity, rather than the whole plaintext/identity.
However, from a more technical perspective, there could be some crucial diﬀer-
ence: while it is known how to build group signatures from PKE in a modular
manner, the connection between MPS and functional encryption is still unclear.
Organization. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Sect. 2, we
provide our deﬁnitions of MPS, describe its syntax and formalize the security
requirements. Then, in Sect. 3, we give a generic construction of MPS satisfying
our model, based on commonly used cryptographic primitives. A pairing-based
instantiation is then presented in Sect. 4. A lattice-based construction then fol-
lows in Sect. 5. We ﬁnally list several interesting open questions in Sect. 6.
Due to space restrictions, the reminders on the cryptographic building blocks
employed in our constructions and most of the security analyses have to be
deferred to the full version.
2
Multimodal Private Signatures
2.1
Syntax
Let λ ∈N be a security parameter. Any Multimodal Private Signature system
is associated with natural numbers N, K ∈poly(λ); a message space M; a wit-
ness space W; an identity space ID; an opening space OP; together with a
collection F of N signing functions and a collection of K disclosing functions
G = {G1, . . . , GK}, where
F : M × W × ID →[0, K], ∀F ∈F;
Gj : ID →OP, ∀j ∈[1, K].
The parties involving in an MPS system are similar to those of dynamic group
signatures [5,33], namely, a trusted authority (TA), a group manager (GM), an
opening authority (OA), signers and veriﬁers. The job of TA consists of setting
up the system, announcing the public parameters and providing a secret key for
each of GM and OA. Eligible signers are enrolled to the system via an interactive
protocol with GM - who records the registration information into a table. A
registered signer with personal identiﬁable information id ∈ID can issue a
signature Σ on a message M ∈M and with respect to function F ∈F, if the
signer possesses a witness w ∈W such that j = F(M, w, id) ̸= 0, i.e., j ∈[1, K].
Here, the witness w is a context-dependent string that (intuitively) serves as
an evidence for the signability of id on M and w.r.t F, and how w comes into
the signer’s possession is outside of the model (see also discussions in [3,42]). A
legitimate signature Σ should be publicly veriﬁable by any veriﬁer, and could
be opened by OA - who would then learn the value of Gj(id) ∈OP.
Formally, an MPS scheme associated with (N, K, M, W, ID, OP, F, G) is a
tupleofpolynomial-timealgorithms(Setup, ⟨Join; Issue⟩, Sign, Verify, Open),
deﬁned as follows.

Multimodal Private Signatures
801
Setup(λ) →(pp, msk, osk, reg). On input security parameter λ, this probabilis-
tic algorithm generates public parameters pp, a secret key msk for the Group
Manager (GM) and a secret key osk for the Opening Authority (OA). It also
initializes a registration table reg := ∅.
⟨Join(pp); Issue(pp, msk, reg)⟩. This is an interactive protocol run by a user who
wishes to become a group member and the GM. If it completes successfully,
then:
– Algorithm Join outputs user’s signing key skid = (id, secid, certid), where
id ∈ID is a unique identiﬁer, secid is a membership secret (that is known
only by the user), and certid is a membership certiﬁcate.
– Algorithm Issue stores the transcript of the protocol in the registration
table reg := reg ∪transid.
Sign(pp, skid, M, w, F) →Σ /⊥. Given pp, signing key skid = (id, secid, certid),
message M ∈M, witness w ∈W, and a signing function F ∈F, this
probabilistic algorithm outputs a signature Σ or a symbol ⊥indicating failure.
Verify(pp, M, F, Σ) →1/0. This deterministic algorithm checks the validity of
the signature Σ on message M ∈M with respect to signing function F ∈F.
It outputs a bit indicating the validity or invalidity of Σ.
Open(pp, osk, Σ, M, F) →op/⊥. This algorithm takes as inputs the public
parameters pp, the OA’s secret key osk, a signature Σ on message M ∈M
with respect to signing function F ∈F. It outputs either an opening result
op ∈OP or symbol ⊥to indicate failure.
2.2
Correctness and Security
The requirements that any Multimodal Private Signature system should satisfy
are correctness, privacy and unforgeability.
Correctness. Correctness of MPS guarantees that honest signers can join the
group, and when j = F(M, w, id) ̸= 0, signer id should be able to issue an
accepted signature Σ on message M and with respect to signing function F,
and that Σ should be opened to the value Gj(id). More formally, correctness of
MPS is deﬁned as follows.
Deﬁnition 1 (Correctness). An MPS system associated with (N, K, M,
W, ID, OP, F, G), where G = {G1, . . . , GK}, is called correct, if for all λ ∈N,
all (pp, msk, osk, reg) ←Setup(λ), the following conditions hold with overwhelm-
ing probability in λ.
1. If ⟨Join(pp); Issue(pp, msk, reg)⟩is run by two honest parties, then it completes
successfully, and the signer obtains skid = (id, secid, certid).
2. If M ∈M, F ∈F, id ∈ID, w ∈W and if j = F(M, w, id) ∈[1, K], then
algorithm Sign(pp, skid, M, w, F) does not fail and

802
K. Nguyen et al.
Verify

pp, M, F, Sign(pp, skid, M, w, F)

= 1
Open

pp, osk, Sign(pp, skid, M, w, F), M, F

= Gj(id).
Security. We require two main security properties for MPS, namely, privacy
and unforgeability. Informally, these properties capture the following intuitions.
Privacy roughly ensures that each party in the system can only learn the
piece of signer’s information which the signer intends to disclose. Given a valid
signature Σ ←Sign(pp, skid, M, w, F), it should be infeasible for everyone -
excluding the OA - to learn anything about the signer’s private information,
apart from the fact that M is signable, i.e., j = F(M, w, id) ̸= 0. Furthermore,
even the OA should be able to additionally learn only the value Gj(id), and
should remain oblivious about j and id.
Unforgeability captures several requirements. First, it should be infeasible
for signer with identiﬁer id to generate a valid signature Σ associated with (M, F)
if F(M, w, id) = 0. Second, it should also be infeasible to “mislead” the signature
opening: if Open(pp, osk, Σ, M, F) outputs op ∈OP, then we expect that there
exist a registered id whose valid signing key was used by the signer as well as a
witness w ∈W such that op = GF (M,w,id)(id). Third, we demand that, without
the knowledge of membership secret secid, no one, even a coalition of corrupted
GM and OA, can issue signatures on behalf of honest user id. Note that the last
two requirements resemble the notions of full-traceability and non-frameability
in dynamic group signatures [5,33].
For each of the above security properties, we therefore will consider two types
of adversaries, whose goals and powers are related but diﬀerent from each other.
For formalization, we will follow the deﬁnitional approach used by Libert et al.
[42], which was ﬁrst put forward by Kiayias and Yung [33].
We will consider experiments in which the adversary interacts with a stateful
interface I that maintains the following variables:
– stateI: is a data structure representing the state of the interface as the adver-
sary invokes the various oracles available in the attack games. It is initialized
as stateI = (pp, msk, osk, reg), where reg is initially empty and later will
store all transcripts of ⟨Join; Issue⟩.
– SIGS: is a database of honestly generated signatures created by the signing
oracle. Each entry consists of a tuple (Σ, id, M, w, F) indicating that signature
Σ was returned in response to a signing query involving identity id, message
M, witness w and signing function F.
– HUL: is an initially empty list of honest users introduced in the system by the
adversary acting as a dishonest GM. For these users, the adversary obtains
the transcript of ⟨Join; Issue⟩but not the user’s membership secret.
– CUL: is an initially empty list of corrupted users that are introduced by the
adversary in the system in an execution of the join protocol.
In attack games, adversaries are granted access to the following oracles:
– OCU: allows the adversary to introduce users under its control in the group.
A ⟨Join; Issue⟩protocol is run, in which the adversary plays the role of the

Multimodal Private Signatures
803
prospective user. If the protocol successfully completes, a new user id is added
to CUL and the protocol transcript transid is added to reg.
– OHU: allows the adversary, acting as a corrupted GM, to introduce new honest
group members of its choice. A ⟨Join; Issue⟩protocol is run, in which the
adversary plays the role of the GM. If the protocol successfully completes, a
new user id is added to HUL and protocol transcript transid is added to reg.
The interface stores the membership certiﬁcate certid and the membership
secret secid in a private part of stateI.
– Osig: given a tuple (M, w, F) and an identiﬁer id, the interface returns ⊥
if F(M, w, id) = 0 or if id ̸∈HUL. Otherwise, the private area of stateI
must contain a certiﬁcate certid and a membership secret secid. The inter-
face outputs a signature Σ on behalf of user id and also updates SIGS ←
SIGS||(Σ, id, M, w, F).
– Oopen: when this oracle is invoked on input of a valid triple (M, Σ, F), the
interface runs algorithm Open using osk. When S is a set of tuples of the form
(M, Σ, F), O¬S
open denotes a restricted oracle that only applies the opening
algorithm to tuples (M, Σ, F) which are not in S.
– Oread and Owrite: are used by the adversary to read and write the content of
reg. At each invocation, Oread outputs the current records in reg. Meanwhile,
Owrite enables the adversary to modify reg as long as the table remains well-
formed.
Privacy. We say that an MPS scheme is private if it satisﬁes computational
privacy against Type-1-Adversary and computational/statistical privacy
against Type-2-Adversary.
Privacy Against Type-1 Adversary. This captures the power of the CCA2-
anonymity adversary in group signatures [4,5,33]. The adversary is allowed to
corrupt the GM, corrupt all users, and is allowed to make queries to various
oracles, including adaptive queries to the opening oracle.
In the challenge phase, adversary returns a function F ⋆∈F, a message
M ⋆∈M, together with two valid signing keys skid0 = (id0, secid0, certid0), skid1 =
(id1, secid1, certid1), as well as witnesses w0, w1 ∈W. Here, by “valid signing keys”,
we mean that the keys have been formed correctly via certain legitimate execu-
tions of ⟨Join; Issue⟩, initiated by the adversary. Furthermore, for the challenge
to be meaningful, (M ⋆, F ⋆) should be signable by both id0 and id1, i.e.,

j0 = F ⋆(M ⋆, w0, id0) ̸= 0

∧

j1 = F ⋆(M ⋆, w1, id1) ̸= 0

.
Receiving a challenge signature Σ⋆←Sign(pp, skidb, M ⋆, wb, F ⋆), where b
$←−
{0, 1}, the adversary can continue making non-trivial opening queries, i.e., those
that do not involve (M ⋆, Σ⋆, F ⋆). Eventually, it outputs a guess b′ ∈{0, 1} and
wins if the guess is correct with non-negligible advantage.
Privacy Against Type-2 Adversary. This strong adversary can potentially
be computationally unbounded and can corrupt everyone in the system: GM,
all users and even OA. It is also allowed to make unrestricted queries to all
available oracles. Privacy against this adversary roughly demands that, apart

804
K. Nguyen et al.
from the opening result Gj(id) (and, obviously, the fact that the underlying
message-function pair is signable by id), the adversary can learn no additional
information about j or id.
In the challenge phase, when adversary returns (F ⋆, M ⋆, skid0, w0, skid1, w1),
we additionally require that Gj0(id0) = Gj1(id1), namely, the opening informa-
tion corresponding to both choices of the challenger must be the same. This
restriction is necessary (as the adversary knows osk) and also suﬃcient to cap-
ture the requirement that signature opening only reveals Gj(id).
1 (pp, msk, osk, reg = ∅) ←Setup(λ).
2
(F ⋆, M ⋆, skid0, w0, skid1, w1) ←AOread,Owrite,OCU,OHU,Osig,Oopen(pp, msk).
3
(F ⋆, M ⋆, skid0, w0, skid1, w1) ←AOread,Owrite,OCU,OHU,Osig,Oopen(pp, msk, osk).
4 If F ⋆/∈F, or M ⋆/∈M, or skid0 is not valid, or skid1 is not valid, return 0.
5 If j0 = F ⋆(M ⋆, w0, id0) = 0 or j1 = F ⋆(M ⋆, w1, id1) = 0, return 0.
6
If Gj0(id0) ̸= Gj1(id1), return 0.
7 b
$
←−{0, 1};
Σ⋆←Sign(pp, skidb, M ⋆, wb, F ⋆).
8
b′ ←AOread,Owrite,OCU,OHU,Osig,O¬(M⋆,Σ⋆,F ⋆)
open
(Σ⋆).
9
b′ ←AOread,Owrite,OCU,OHU,Osig,Oopen(Σ⋆).
10 Return (b′ = b).
Fig. 1. Experiment Expprivacy−1
A
(λ) (resp., Expprivacy−2
A
(λ)) excluding the dotted (resp.,
solid) boxes.
The
respective
experiments,
Expprivacy−1
A
(λ)
and
Expprivacy−2
A
(λ),
are
described in Fig. 1. We hence come to the following formal deﬁnition of privacy
for MPS.
Deﬁnition 2 (Privacy).
An MPS system associated with (N, K, M, W, ID,
OP, F, G) is called private if the following conditions hold.
1. Computational privacy against Type-1 adversary: For any PPT adver-
sary A, one has
Advprivacy−1
A
(λ) :=
Pr[Expprivacy−1
A
(λ) = 1] −1/2
 ∈negl(λ).
2. Statistical (resp., computational) privacy against Type-2 adversary:
For any adversary A (resp., any PPT adversary A), one has
Advprivacy−2
A
(λ) :=
Pr[Expprivacy−2
A
(λ) = 1] −1/2
 ∈negl(λ).
Unforgeability. Deﬁning unforgeability for MPS is a considerably non-trivial
task. The main reason is that the original algorithms in the system do not provide

Multimodal Private Signatures
805
a rigorous mechanism to determine whether a tuple (M ⋆, F ⋆, Σ⋆) forms a valid
forgery. Therefore, for deﬁnitional purposes, we would need to introduce certain
auxiliary algorithms that allow us to extract additional information, e.g., some
identity id′ and some witness w′, so that we can meaningfully explain whether
and how a forgery has occurred.
To that end, we assume the existence of the following two auxiliary algo-
rithms, namely, SimSetup and Extract.
SimSetup(λ) Given the security parameter λ, this algorithm generates simu-
lated (pp, msk, osk, reg), together with an extraction trapdoor τext.
Extract

τext, (pp, Σ, M, F)

Given trapdoor τext, a valid signature Σ on mes-
sage M and with respect to signing function F, i.e., Verify(pp, M, F, Σ) = 1,
this extraction algorithm returns a pair ζ = (id′, w′) ∈ID × W.
Naturally, we demand that the outputs of SimSetup and Setup are indis-
tinguishable to the adversary. Next, we require that (id′, w′) outputted by
Extract is compatible with the value op outputted by Open. Speciﬁcally, w′
should be a valid witness for the signability of identity id′ w.r.t. (M ⋆, F ⋆), i.e.,
j′ = F(M ⋆, w′, id′) ̸= 0, and, furthermore, Gj′(id′) should coincide with op. For-
mally, we deﬁne extractability as a “supporting” security property for unforge-
ability. The deﬁnition uses experiment Expextract
A
(λ) described in Fig. 2.
Deﬁnition 3 (Extractability). An MPS system with auxiliary algorithms
SimSetup, Extract is called extractable if the following conditions hold.
1. The distribution of simulated (pp, msk, osk, reg) ←SimSetup(λ) is compu-
tationally close to the distribution of a real output of Setup.
2. For any PPT adversary A involving in the experiment of Fig. 2, the advantage
Advextract
A
(λ) := Pr

Expextract
A
(λ) = 1

is negligible in λ.
1
(pp, msk, osk, reg = ∅), τext

←SimSetup(λ).
2 (F, M, Σ) ←AOread,Owrite,OCU,OHU,Osig,Oopen(pp, msk, osk),
3 If F /∈F, or M /∈M, or Verify(pp, M, F, Σ) = 0, return 0.
4 (id′, w′) ←Extract(τext, (pp, Σ, M, F));
j′ = F(M, w′, id′);
5 If j′ = 0, return 1.
6 op ←Open(pp, osk, Σ, M, F);
7 If Gj′(id′) ̸= op, return 1.
8 Return 0.
Fig. 2. Experiment Expextract
A
(λ).
Now, we are ready for the deﬁnitions of unforgeability. An MPS scheme is
said to satisfy unforgeability if it is extractable and has computational security
against Type-1-Forger and Type-2-Forger.

806
K. Nguyen et al.
1 ((pp, msk, osk, reg = ∅), τext) ←SimSetup(λ).
2
(M ⋆, F ⋆, Σ⋆) ←AOread,Owrite,OCU,OHU,Osig,Oopen(pp, osk).
3
(M ⋆, F ⋆, Σ⋆) ←AOread,Owrite,OCU,OHU,Osig,Oopen(pp, osk, msk).
4 If F ⋆/∈F, or M ⋆/∈M, or Verify(pp, M ⋆, F ⋆, Σ⋆) = 0, return 0.
5 (id′, ·) ←Extract(τext, (pp, Σ⋆, M ⋆, F ⋆)).
6 If (Σ⋆, id′, M ⋆, ·, F ⋆) ∈SIGS, return 0.
7
If id′ /∈CUL, return 1.
8
If id′ ∈HUL, return 1.
9 Return 0.
Fig. 3. Experiment Expunforge−1
A
(λ) (resp., Expunforge−2
A
(λ)) excluding the dotted (resp.,
solid) boxes.
– Type-1-Forger roughly captures the traceability adversary in group signatures.
It can fully corrupt the OA, corrupt a number of users and can make various
oracle queries. Its goal is to output a valid forgery (Σ⋆, M ⋆, F ⋆) such that the
extraction points to some identity id′ which it has not previously corrupted.
– Type-2-Forger is similar to the non-frameability adversary in group signatures,
whose goal is to point the opening/extraction to an innocent user. The adver-
sary can corrupt everyone else in the system, i.e., GM, OA and all other users.
It succeeds if it can output a valid forgery that is extracted to some honest
identity id′.
In
Fig. 3,
we
formalize
the
respective
security
experiments,
i.e.,
Expunforge−1
A
(λ) and Expunforge−2
A
(λ)). The formal deﬁnition of unforgeability fol-
lows.
Deﬁnition 4 (Unforgeability). An MPS system associated is called unforge-
able if it satisﬁes extractability, and for any PPT adversary A, one has
Advunforge−1
A
(λ) := Pr[Expunforge−1
A
(λ) = 1] ∈negl(λ);
Advunforge−2
A
(λ) := Pr[Expunforge−2
A
(λ) = 1] ∈negl(λ).
3
Generic Constructions
In this section, we present a generic construction of MPS for arbitrary signing
functions F’s and arbitrary disclosing functions G1, . . . , GK. The construction
satisﬁes the correctness and security properties deﬁned in Sect. 2, and employs
cryptographic building blocks that are commonly used for designing advanced
privacy-preserving primitives: ordinary (one-time) signatures, public-key encryp-
tion and non-interactive zero-knowledge (NIZK) proofs/arguments for some
NP-relations. For the latter ingredient, we additionally require the dual-mode

Multimodal Private Signatures
807
property, i.e., we will use a NIZK system that operates in two modes: hiding
mode (for the real scheme and simulation) and binding mode (for simulated
setup and extraction).
Our construction can serve as a proof of feasibility of designing MPS based on
standard assumptions and in a modular manner. In particular, it can be realized
in the standard model from pairings and from lattices, using the techniques
for obtaining NIZKs for NP by Groth-Ostrovsky-Sahai [29] and by Peikert-
Shiehian [49], respectively.
At a high level, the construction follows the classical sign-then-encrypt-then-
prove paradigm. The main diﬀerence here is that we do not encrypt the signer’s
identity id (as in group signatures) or “id or 0” (as in BiAS [42]). Instead, we let
the signer encrypt the function value op = Gj(id) and prove the well-formedness
of the resulting ciphertext - which includes proving knowledge of (id, w) such
that op = GF (M,w,id)(id) is contained in the ciphertext. While such involved
statements can be proved in zero-knowledge using well-known NIZK systems
for NP such as [29,49], the resulting proofs/arguments would likely have sizes
depending on the sizes of the circuits computing functions F, G1, . . . , GK.
Our construction can also have eﬃciency advantage when we instantiate the
system with concrete signing and disclosing functions, the correct evaluations of
which can be eﬃciently proved in zero-knowledge. As illustrations, we will later
present relatively eﬃcient pairing-based and lattice-based constructions of MPS
for some speciﬁc functions F, G1, . . . , GK, in Sect. 4 and Sect. 5, respectively.
In the following, we will give a technical overview of our generic construction
in Sect. 3.1, then describe it in detail in Sect. 3.2 and provide its analyses in
Sect. 3.3.
3.1
Technical Overview
The construction employs the following technical building blocks.
– A secure digital signature scheme S = (S.Kg, S.Sign, S.Ver);
– A secure one-time signature scheme OT S = (O.Kg, O.Sign, O.Ver);
– A secure public-key encryption scheme E = (E.Kg, E.Enc, E.Dec);
– A dual-mode NIZK argument system NIZK = (ZK.Setup, ZK.ExtSetup,
ZK.Prove, ZK.Ver, ZK.Sim, ZK.Extr) for the NP-relation R deﬁned below.
The main ideas underlying the construction are as follows. The GM is asso-
ciated with a signing-veriﬁcation key-pair (msk, mpk) for S, while the OA is
associated with a decryption-encryption key-pair (osk, opk) for E. When joining,
a perspective user generates a signature key-pair (secid, upk), sends upk together
with its personal identiﬁable information id to GM. The latter certiﬁes (id ∥upk)
in the form of a signature certid. When signing, the signer ﬁrst generates a
one-time signature key-pair (otk, ovk), uses its secret key secid to certify ovk as
signature s. Then it evaluates j = F(M, w, id) and encrypts Gj(id) under opk

808
K. Nguyen et al.
with randomness r, obtaining ciphertext c. The signer then generates a NIZK
argument π for the relation R deﬁned as follows
R :=
 
mpk, opk, c, M, F, ovk

,

id, upk, certid, s, w, j, r

:
(S.Ver(upk, ovk, s) = 1) ∧(S.Ver(mpk, (id ∥upk), certid) = 1) ∧
(F(M, w, id) = j) ∧(j ∈[1, K]) ∧(c = E.Enc(opk, Gj(id); r))

.
Next, the signer uses otk to one-time sign (M, F, c, π) as sig, and outputs the
ﬁnal signature as Σ = (ovk, c, π, sig). Veriﬁcation of Σ basically consists of
verifying sig and π. Meanwhile, opening of Σ is done via decrypting c with key
osk.
Roughly speaking, the correctness of the obtained MPS scheme is based
on the correctness/completeness of the underlying building blocks. Privacy is
achieved as long as E is IND-CCA2 secure and NIZK has the ZK property.
Meanwhile, unforgeability is based on the soundness of NIZK, the unforgeabil-
ity of S and the strong unforgeability of OT S.
3.2
Description
Let λ ∈N be a security parameter. Our generic construction of an MPS system
associated with (N, K, M, W, ID, OP, F, G) works as follows.
Setup(λ) →(pp, msk, osk, reg). On input security parameter λ, this probabilis-
tic algorithm performs the following steps:
1. Run S.Kg(λ) to obtain a signing-veriﬁcation key-pair (msk, mpk).
2. Run E.Kg(λ) to obtain an decryption-encryption key-pair (osk, opk).
3. Run ZK.Setup(λ) to obtain a common reference string crs (and a simula-
tion trapdoor τsim - which is discarded) for the NIZK system.
Then, it sets pp := (crs, mpk, opk), GM’s secret key as msk and OA’s secret
key as osk, and initializes reg := ∅.
⟨Join(pp); Issue(pp, msk, reg)⟩. A user with personal identiﬁable informa-
tion id, who would like to join the group, interacts with the GM as follows.
1. User runs S.Kg(λ) to obtain a signing-veriﬁcation key-pair (usk, upk).
Then it generates sigid ←S.Sign(usk, (id∥upk)), and sends (id, upk, sigid)
to GM.
2. GM veriﬁes that S.Ver(upk, (id∥upk), sigid) = 1, and checks that id has
not been registered in table reg. If any of these conditions does not hold,
GM aborts. Otherwise, GM issues a signature σid ←S.Sign(msk, (id∥upk)),
sends σid to the user, sets transid := (id, upk, sigid, σid) and updates the
registration table reg := reg ∪transid.
3. The user veriﬁes that S.Ver(mpk, id∥upk, σid) = 1, and aborts if it is not
the case. Otherwise, user sets skid = (id, secid, certid), where secid = usk
and certid = (σid, upk).
Sign(pp, skid, M, w, F) →Σ/⊥. Let skid = (id, secid, certid), where secid = usk
and certid = (σid, upk). The signing algorithm then proceeds as follows.

Multimodal Private Signatures
809
1. Compute j = F(M, w, id) ∈[0, K]. Return ⊥if j = 0.
2. Generate a one-time signature key-pair (otk, ovk) ←O.Kg(λ).
3. Use usk to certify ovk as signature s ←S.Sign(usk, ovk).
4. Encrypt Gj(id) under public key opk as c = E.Enc(opk, Gj(id); r), where r
is the encryption randomness.
5. Generate an NIZK proof
π ←ZK.Prove
	
crs,

(mpk, opk, c, M, F, ovk), (id, upk, certid, s, w, j, r)

to prove that

(mpk, opk, c, M, F, ovk), (id, certid, s, w, j, r)

∈R, where R
is the NP-relation deﬁned above.
6. Use otk to issue a one-time signature sig ←O.Sign(otk, (M, F, c, π)).
7. Return the signature Σ := (ovk, c, π, sig).
Verify(pp, M, F, Σ) →0/1. Given a purported signature Σ = (ovk, c, π, sig) on
message M and with respect to signing function F, the veriﬁcation algorithm
proceeds as follows.
1. If O.Ver(ovk, (M, F, c, π), sig) = 0, then return 0.
2. If ZK.Ver

crs, (mpk, opk, c, M, F, ovk), π

= 0, then return 0.
3. Return 1.
Open(pp, osk, Σ, M, F). Given Σ = (ovk, c, π, sig), the opening algorithm pro-
ceeds as follows.
1. Use osk to decrypt c and obtain z ←E.Dec(osk, c) ∈OP ∪{⊥}.
2. Return ⊥if z = ⊥. Otherwise, return op = z ∈OP.
Auxiliary Algorithms. Let us describe the auxiliary algorithms SimSetup
and Extract associated with the above MPS system, which are required by the
security model and are helpful for the security analyses.
SimSetup(λ). This algorithm is almost the same as the real setup algorithm
presented above. The only diﬀerence is that, at Step 3, instead of generating
crs ←ZK.Setup(λ), one runs ZK.ExtSetup(λ) to obtain a common reference
string crs together with an extraction trapdoor τext. The simulated public
parameters are then set as pp = (crs, mpk, opk).
Extract

τext, (pp, Σ, M, F)

. Given the extraction trapdoor τext, a valid sig-
nature Σ = (ovk, c, π, sig) on message M and with respect to signing
function F, this algorithm runs ZK.Extr(crs, τext, π) to obtain a witness
(id′, cert′
id, s′, w′, j′, r′) for the relation R. It then outputs ζ = (id′, w′).
3.3
Analyses
Theorem 1 states that the correctness and security properties of the presented
MPS system can be based on the completeness/correctness and security features
of the employed cryptographic building blocks.

810
K. Nguyen et al.
Theorem 1. Assume that S is an unforgeable signature scheme under adap-
tive chosen-message attacks, OT S is a strongly unforgeable one-time signature
scheme, E is an IND-CCA2-secure public-key encryption scheme and NIZK
is a dual-model non-interactive zero-knowledge argument system for relation R.
Then, the described MPS system satisﬁes correctness, privacy and unforgeability.
We prove Theorem 1 via Lemma 1–6. The proofs of Lemma 2–6 are provided
in the full version.
Lemma 1 (Correctness). If S, OT S and E are correct, and NIZK is com-
plete, then the presented MPS scheme satisﬁes correctness.
Proof. The proof is straightforward. It follows from the correctness of S that
S.Ver(upk, id, S.Sign(usk, id)) = 1,
S.Ver(mpk, id, S.Sign(msk, id)) = 1.
Hence, an honest signer should be able to enrol in the group and obtain a legit-
imate signing key skid = (id, secid, certid).
Next, thanks to the correctness of S as well as the completeness of NIZK,
the signer should be able to obtain a valid witness (id, certid, s, w, j, r) for the
relation R, and proof π should be accepted by ZK.Ver. Furthermore, one-time
signature sig should pass the veriﬁcation algorithm O.Ver. Therefore, as long as
j = F(M, w, id) ̸= 0, one should have Verify(pp, M, F, Σ) = 1.
Finally, the correctness of E guarantees that E.Dec(osk, E.Enc(opk, Gj(id), r)))
returns Gj(id), and so does Open(pp, osk, Σ, M, F).
⊓⊔
Lemma 2 (Type-1 Privacy). The described MPS system satisﬁes computa-
tional privacy against Type-1 adversary if (i) E has IND-CCA2 security; (ii)
NIZK has (computational/statistical) zero-knowledge property.
Lemma 3 (Type-2 Privacy). The described MPS system satisﬁes statistical
(resp. computational) privacy against Type-2 adversary if NIZK has statistical
(resp. computational) zero-knowledge property.
Lemma 4 (Extractability).
The described MPS scheme is extractable if
NIZK has CRS indistinguishability and extractability in the binding mode, and
if E is correct.
Lemma 5 (Type-1 Unforgeability).
The described MPS system satisﬁes
unforgeability against Type-1 forger if (i) the conditions of Lemma 4 hold; (ii) S
is unforgeable under chosen-message attacks; (iii) OT S is a strongly unforgeable
one-time signature; (iv) NIZK is computationally sound.
Lemma 6 (Type-2 Unforgeability).
The described MPS system satisﬁes
unforgeability against Type-2 forger if (i) the conditions of Lemma 4 hold; (ii) S
is unforgeable under chosen-message attacks; (iii) OT S is a strongly unforgeable
one-time signature; (iv) NIZK is computationally sound.

Multimodal Private Signatures
811
4
A Construction from Pairings
4.1
Notations and Parameters
Let (ˆe : G1 × G1 →GT ) denote a non-degenerate bilinear map over pairing
groups G1 and GT of prime order p and G∗
1 := G1\{1}. Let g, h be random
generators of G1. Our construction assumes the following parameter spaces:
– an identity space ID = (G∗
1)2 where each user identity is encoded as id =
(id1, id2) ∈(G∗
1)2;
– a user public key space UPK = G∗
1;
– a message space M = G1 for the signers where each M ∈M is a Pedersen
commitment for an integer value w1 ∈Zp with randomness w2 ∈Zp;
– a witness space W = Z2
p where a witness w = (w1, w2) for M ∈M consists
of the opening for M;
– a function index space J = [1, 4];
– the valid ranges of w1, denoted by [Ai−1, Ai) for (1 ≤i ≤4);
– a signing function F deﬁned as
F(M, w = (w1, w2)) :=
⎧
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎨
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎩
1 iﬀ(M = gw1hw2 ∧A0 ≤w1 < A1)
2 iﬀ(M = gw1hw2 ∧A1 ≤w1 < A2)
3 iﬀ(M = gw1hw2 ∧A2 ≤w1 < A3)
4 iﬀ(M = gw1hw2 ∧A3 ≤w1 < A4)
0 otherwise
– an opening space OP = G2
1;
– a family of disclosing functions G = {Gj : (G∗
1)2 →G2
1} (j ∈[1, 4]) such that
for an identity id = (id1, id2) ∈(G∗
1)2
G1(id) = (1G1, 1G1), G2(id) = (1G1, id2), G3(id) = (id1, 1G1), G4(id) = (id1, id2).
4.2
Technical Overview
In our pairing-based MPS, a message M ∈G1 is in the form of a Pedersen
commitment [48], i.e., M = gvhr where v represents a value (e.g., a transaction
amount) and r is the randomness. The construction follows the same paradigm
as the generic construction, but we change/adapt some of the building blocks by
following the design of an eﬃcient group signature scheme by Groth [28], which
makes the construction more eﬃcient. Speciﬁcally, we apply the following tools
in our construction:
– The structure-preserving digital signature scheme by Kiltz et al. [35] SPS =
(SPS.Kg, SPS.Sign, SPS.Ver) with message space ID × UPK = (G∗
1)3 and
signature space G10
1 .

812
K. Nguyen et al.
– The (weak) Boneh-Boyen (BB) digital signature scheme [6] BBS = (BBS.Kg,
BBS.Sign, BBS.Ver) with public key space UPK = G∗
1 and signature space
G∗
1.
– The Pedersen commitment scheme [48] CM = (CM.Setup, CM.Cmt, CM.Open,
CM.Ver) with witness space W = Z2
p and commitment space G1.
– The tag-based PKE by Kiltz [34] E = (E.Kg, E.Enc, E.Ver, E.Dec) with mes-
sage space G1 and ciphertext space G5
1. Note that E.Ver allows public veriﬁ-
cation of a ciphertext w.r.t. an encryption tag.
– The
DLIN-based
instantiation
of
the
Groth-Sahai
proof
system
[30]
GS
=
(GS.Setup, GS.Prove, GS.Ver, GS.SimSetup, GS.SimProve, GS.Extract)
which
includes
two
DLIN-based
commitment
schemes
GSCMi
=
(GSCMi.Cmt, GSCMi. Open, GSCMi.Ver) i ∈{1, 2} for committing elements
in G1 and Zp, respectively. Both commitments use crsGS ←GS.Setup(λ) as
the commitment key.
– A
strongly
unforgeable
one-time
digital
signature
scheme
OT S
=
(O.Kg, O.Sign, O.Ver).
In the center of our construction is the Groth-Sahai Proof system [30] that
enables eﬃcient non-interactive proofs for statements expressed in the forms of
pairing product equations, multi-exponentiation equations and quadratic equa-
tions. To be compatible with Groth-Sahai proof, we adopt a Structure Preserv-
ing Signature [35] for the issuing of certid w.r.t. (id, upk) for a signer. To sign a
message, the signer randomly generates a one-time key pair (ovk, otk), certiﬁes
ovk using usk, and employs the Groth-Sahai Proof system to prove that there
is a valid certiﬁcation chain mpk →upk →ovk, without revealing id, upk or
certid. The one-time key is used to generate the ﬁnal signature. However, since
the Groth-Sahai Proof system does not have NIZK for general pairing product
equations, we replace the NIZK proof by NIWI proof, as in [28].
Proving Gj(id). The main diﬀerence between our construction and [28] is in
dealing with the disclosed identity information Gj(id). In [28], the disclosing
function is the identity function, i.e., G(id) = id, so the opening authority OA’s
secret key is the same as the extraction key for the Groth-Sahai proof system
in the binding mode. In MPS, we need to separate OA’s secret key from the
extraction key as even the OA should not learn more than Gj(id). Moreover,
we need to ensure extractability, meaning that the correct identity information
Gj(id) is encrypted by the signer and j = F(M, w) ∈[1, 4] is correctly computed
based on the witness w of the message M.
The Groth-Sahai Proof system allows perfect extraction of committed group
elements in G1, but not arbitrary elements in Zp. To achieve extractability in
MPS, we need to ensure the correct extraction of not only Gj(id) but also j =
F(M, w) where w ∈Zp. Meanwhile, we observe that if a committed value in Zp
is a binary value, then we can also perfectly extract it from the commitment.
This motivates us to convert the witness w into binary form, and prove in zero-
knowledge that j = F(M, w).
To do so, we ﬁrst observe that the Pedersen commitment is homomorphic.
Hence, to prove that the witness v of a message M = gvhr falls in a range,

Multimodal Private Signatures
813
say [Ai, Ai+1) where Ai+1 −Ai = 2k, we only need to prove that M/gAi is
a correct commitment for v −Ai ∈[0, 2k). To do so, we follow the standard
range proof approach by converting v −Ai into a k-bit binary string and proving
that each position has a binary value. We then employ additional bits (2 bits in
our concrete instantiation in this paper) to specify which range, among all the
possible ranges, the value v actually falls in. This is achieved by expressing the
proof statement in the form of an OR-proof, where the additional bits point to
the real statement being proved.
As a result, we convert the NIZK proof for Gj(id) into a collection of multi-
exponentiation equations in G1 and quadratic equations (for binary values) in
Zp, which can be proved using the Groth-Sahai Proof system while achieving
extractability.
It is worth noting that the above approach allows us to support a larger iden-
tity space, e.g., id ∈(G∗
1)n, accompanied with a variety of disclosing functions.
Due to the space limit, the details are presented in the full version.
5
A Construction from Lattices
In this section, we present a concrete construction of MPS which is proven secure
under lattice-based assumptions in the random oracle model (ROM).
Let integers n, m, q, k = 3n⌈log q⌉, L and 0 < A1 < A2 < A3 < 2L −1 be the
system parameters. Let (C1, C2) ∈Zn×L
q
× Zn×m
q
be a commitment key for the
KTX commitment scheme [31], which is statistically hiding and computationally
binding under the SIS assumption.
Similar to the pairing-based construction presented in Sect. 4, this lattice-
based scheme is also associated with N = 1 signing function F and K = 4 disclos-
ing functions G1, . . . , G4, and also consider the setting where m = com(w1, w2),
with m is a message to be signed, and w = (w1, w2) is a witness.
Let M = Zn
q , W = {0, 1}L ×{0, 1}m, ID = OP = {0, 1}k. Deﬁne the signing
function F : M × W →[0, 4] as follows.
F(m, w) :=
⎧
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎨
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎩
0 if m ̸= C1 · w1 + C2 · w2 mod q,
else
1 if (0 ≤W1 < A1),
else
2 if (A1 ≤W1 < A2),
else
3 if (A2 ≤W1 < A3),
else
4 if (A3 ≤W1 ≤2L −1),
where W1 = int(w1) - the integer in [0, 2L −1] whose binary representation is
w1.
Disclosing Functions. For each j ∈[1, 4] deﬁne Gj as a linear endomorphism
over Zk
2. Speciﬁcally, let G1, G2, G3, G4 ∈Zk×k
2
be public matrices, then let
Gj(id) = Gj · id.

814
K. Nguyen et al.
The deﬁnition is quite general and expressive, in the sense that it captures
many natural ways to disclose partial information about id. For instance, we can
set G1 = 0k×k and G4 = Ik, so that G1(id) = 0 (i.e., non-traceable case) and
G4(id) = id (i.e., fully traceable case). We can also easily deﬁne G2, G3 so that
G2(id), G3(id) each reveals a speciﬁc subset of coordinates of id.
5.1
Technical Overview
While it is feasible to instantiate MPS in the standard model via the lattice-
based NIZK techniques of Peikert and Shiehian [49], such a construction would
expectedly be extremely ineﬃcient. Here, our goal is to build more eﬃcient con-
structions in the ROM, where we can employ concrete techniques for obtaining
interactive ZK arguments for lattice-based relations, and then remove interaction
via the Fiat-Shamir transformation [22].
Regarding lattice-based building blocks, apart from the KTX SIS-based com-
mitment scheme [31] which we mentioned above, we employ the following ingre-
dients:
– The SIS-based signature scheme from [37], which admits eﬃcient zero-
knowledge arguments of knowledge of a valid message-signature pair. This
signature scheme will be used by the GM to issue users’ certiﬁcates.
– An LWE-based CCA2-secure PKE scheme obtained from the GPV IBE [26]
and the CHK transformation [14]. This encryption scheme will be used to
encrypt Gj(id), and ciphertexts will be decryptable by the OA.
– A SIS-based one-way function [1]. In the ROM, since the NIZK argument π
included in Σ can be viewed as a signature of knowledge [15] of the signer’s
membership secret secid, we can slightly depart from the generic construction
of Sect. 3, by equipping users with a one-way function rather than an ordinary
signature scheme.
– We also need a statistical ZK argument system that can handle relatively
sophisticated linear and quadratic relations with respect to two moduli (q1 =
2 and q2 > 2) and that is compatible with the signature scheme from [37]. To
this end, we choose to employ the Stern-like [52] framework from [40].
Proving in ZK that y = Gj(id). The major technical diﬃculty that we have
to overcome is to prove in ZK that a plaintext y, encrypted under the GPV IBE
scheme, is exactly the value Gj(id). To this end, we ﬁrst would need to show
that the index j = F(m, w) ∈[1, 4] is computed correctly. Our techniques are
as follows.
We ﬁrst “extract” the position of W1 = int(w1) ∈[0, 2L −1] relative to
A1, A2, A3 by deﬁning bits b1, b2, b3 ∈{0, 1} such that
0 ≤W1 < A1
⇐⇒
(b1, b2, b3) = (0, 0, 0) ⇐⇒(1 −b1)(1 −b2)(1 −b3) = 1;
A1 ≤W1 < A2
⇐⇒
(b1, b2, b3) = (1, 0, 0) ⇐⇒b1(1 −b2)(1 −b3) = 1;
A2 ≤W1 < A3
⇐⇒
(b1, b2, b3) = (1, 1, 0) ⇐⇒b1b2(1 −b3) = 1;
A3 ≤W1 < 2L −1
⇐⇒
(b1, b2, b3) = (1, 1, 1) ⇐⇒b1b2b3 = 1.

Multimodal Private Signatures
815
This can be realized by viewing inequalities under the lens of integer addi-
tions, in the following way. Suppose that there exist (non-negative) L-bit integers
Y0, Y1, Z0, Z1, T0, T1 and bits b1, b2, b3 such that:
W1 + (1 −b1) · Y1 + (1 −b1) = A1 + b1 · Y0,
W1 + (1 −b2) · Z1 + (1 −b2) = A2 + b2 · Z0,
(1)
W1 + (1 −b3) · T1 + (1 −b3) = A3 + b3 · Y0.
Observe that, when b1 = 0, we have W1 + Y1 + 1 = A1, implying that
W1 < A1 since Y1 ≥0. On the other hand, if b1 = 1, we have W1 = A1 + Y0,
and as Y0 ≥0, we can deduce that W1 ≥A1. In other words, b1 captures the
predicate (W1 ≥A1). Similarly, we have b2 = (W1 ≥A2) and b3 = (W1 ≥A3).
Next, let us consider bits f0, f1 ∈{0, 1} such that
y = Gj(id) = Gj · id
=
(1 −f0)(1 −f1) · G1 · id + (1 −f0)f1 · G2 · id
+
f0 · (1 −f1) · G3 · id + f0 · f1 · G4 · id mod 2. (2)
In other words, f0, f1 are such that j = 1, 2, 3, 4 if and only if (f0, f1) =
(0, 0), (0, 1), (1, 0), (1, 1), respectively.
Now, observe that f0, f1 and b1, b2, b3 are connected via the following equation:
(f0, f1)
=
(1 −b1)(1 −b2)(1 −b3) · (0, 0) + b1(1 −b2)(1 −b3) · (0, 1)
+
b1b2(1 −b3) · (1, 0) + b1b2b3 · (1, 1)
mod 2.
(3)
As a summary of the above ideas, we have reduced the problem of proving that
y = Gj(id) to the equivalent problem of proving knowledge of bits b1, b2, b3, f0, f1
and L-bit integers Y0, Y1, Z0, Z1, T0, T1 satisfying equations in (1), (2) and (3).
We note that equations in (1) can be proved in zero-knowledge using the
techniques from [41], which, in a nutshell, translate integer additions into binary
adders with carries, and hence obtain a system of equations modulo 2. Combining
with equations in (2) and (3), we can obtain an equation of the form
M2 · p2 = u2 mod 2,
(4)
where matrix M2 and vector u2 are public, and p2 is a binary vector
that encodes all the information of vector id, bits b1, b2, b3, f0, f1 and integers
Y0, Y1, Z0, Z1, T0, T1.
The Main ZK Argument System. Our construction will make use of a ZK
argument system that allows to prove knowledge of a tuple

id, z, x, certid =
(τ, v, s), w = (w1, w2), y, (r, e1, e2)

satisfying the following conditions:
(i) (z, x) is a preimage-image pair of a SIS-based one-way function;
(ii) certid = (τ, v, s) is a signature on message (id∥x), with respect to the sig-
nature scheme from [37];
(iii) A GPV IBE ciphertext is a correct encryption of plaintext y, with random-
ness (r, e1, e2);
(iv) m is a KTX commitment of w1 with randomness w2;

816
K. Nguyen et al.
(v) y = Gj(id), where j = F(m, w) ∈[1, 4].
Recall that item (v) can be handled using the ideas we discussed above.
As for (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) we can use the techniques from [37,43] to obtain a
vector p1 that has coordinates in {−1, 0, 1} and that encodes the information of
(z, x, τ, v, s, id, r, e1, e2, w1, w2), and that satisﬁes an equation of the form
M1 · p1 = u1 mod q,
(5)
where matrix M1 and vector u1 are public.
Now, our task is to prove that Eqs. (4) and (5) hold for the constructed
vectors p1 and p2, both of which contain encoded information of id. To this end,
we can employ dedicated Stern-like permuting techniques [38,39] to reduce the
underlying relation to an instance of the abstract relation considered in [40]. (An
adaptation of [40], where there are two moduli q1 = q and q2 = 2, is presented in
detail in the full version.) As a result, we can obtain a statistical ZK argument
of knowledge for the considered relation.
5.2
Description of the Scheme
The scheme can be seen as an extension of the dynamic GS from [37]. The scheme
works with lattice parameter n ∈O(λ), parameter ℓ= O(log n), prime modulus
q = 
O(n4), dimensions m = 2n⌈log q⌉, k = 3n⌈log q⌉, L = O(n), Gaussian
parameter σ = Ω(√n log q log n) and inﬁnity norm bounds β = σω(log m). Let
bin(·) be a function mapping vectors over Zq to their binary representations.
The main ZK protocol of the scheme is for the relation Rlmps, deﬁned below.
Deﬁnition 5. Deﬁne
Rlmps =
 	
A, {Aj}ℓ
j=0, D, D0, D1, u, F, C1, C2, m, {Gj}4
j=1, B, G, c1, c2

,

id, z, x, certid = (τ, v, s), w = (w1, w2), y, (r, e1, e2)


as a relation, where
– A, A0, A1, . . . , Aℓ, D, B, F, C2 ∈Zn×m
q
, D0, D1 ∈Z2n×2m
q
, C1 ∈Zn×L
q
, G ∈
Zn×k
q
, u ∈Zn
q , c1 ∈Zm
q , c2 ∈Zk
q, G1, . . . , G4 ∈Zk×k
2
.
– id, y ∈{0, 1}k, z ∈{0, 1}m, x ∈{0, 1}n⌈log q⌉, τ ∈{0, 1}ℓ, v, s ∈[−β, β]2m,
w1 ∈{0, 1}L, w2 ∈{0, 1}m, r ∈[−B, B]n, e1 ∈[−B, B]m, e2 ∈[−B, B]k.
– x = bin(F · z mod q).
–

A | A0 + ℓ
j=1 τj · Aj

· v = u + D · bin(D0 · s + D1 · (id∥x)) mod q.
– c1 = B⊤· r + e1 mod q,
c2 = G⊤· r + e2 + ⌊q/2⌋· y mod q.
– m = C1 · w1 + C2 · w2 mod q.
– y = Gj(id).

Multimodal Private Signatures
817
Using the techniques discussed above, we can obtain a statistical ZK argu-
ment for Rlmps. The protocol, has soundness error 2/3. It is repeated κ = O(λ)
times in parallel to make the error negligibly small, and then made non-
interactive via the Fiat-Shamir heuristic. Our lattice-based MPS scheme works
as follows.
Setup(λ) →(pp, msk, osk, reg). This algorithm performs the following steps.
1. Generate veriﬁcation key
(A, A0, A1, . . . , Aℓ, D, D0, D1, u) ∈(Zn×m
q
)ℓ+3 × (Z2n×2m
q
)2 × Zn
q
and signing key TA for the signature scheme from [37].
2. Generate master public key B ∈Zn×m
q
and master secret key TB for the
GPV IBE scheme [26].
3. Choose uniformly random matrices F ∈Zn×m
q
, and C1 ∈Zn×ℓ
q
, C2 ∈
Zn×m
q
. Looking ahead, F will deﬁne a SIS-based one-way function, while
(C1, C2) will serve as a KTX commitment key for L-bit messages.
4. Let χ be a B-bounded distribution.
5. Choose a one-time signature scheme OT S = (O.Kg, O.Sign, O.Ver).
6. Choose hash functions HF S : {0, 1}∗→{1, 2, 3}κ and HGP V : {0, 1}⋆→
Zn×k
q
that will be modeled as random oracles.
Output msk = TA, osk = TB, reg = ∅and
pp = (A, A0, A1, . . . , Aℓ, D, D0, D1, u, B, F, C1, C2, F, χ, OT S, HF S, HGP V ).
⟨Join(pp); Issue(pp, msk = TA, reg)⟩. A prospective user with identity id ∈Zk
q
interacts with the GM as follows.
1. User selects z
$←−{0, 1}m, computes x = bin(F · z) ∈{0, 1}n⌈log q⌉. User
then signs (id∥x) ∈{0, 1}2m using an ordinary signature and sends (id∥x)
together with the signature sigid to the GM.
2. GM veriﬁes sigid and then certiﬁes (id∥x) using TA. The certiﬁcate has
the form certid = (τ, v, s) ∈{0, 1}ℓ× [−β, β]2m × [−β, β]2m, satisfying

A | A0 +
ℓ

j=1
τj · Aj

· v = u + D · bin(D0 · s + D1 · (id∥x)) mod q. (6)
3. User id veriﬁes the validity of certid and outputs skid = (id, secid, certid),
where secid = z.
4. GM computes transid = (id, x, sigid, certid) and updates the registration
table reg := reg ∪transid.
Sign(pp, skid, m, w = (w1, w2), F). Given pp, signing key skid = (id, secid, certid),
message m ∈M, witness w ∈W, and signing function F, this algorithm
performs the following steps.
1. Check that F(m, w, id) ̸= 0, i.e., w1 ∈{0, 1}L, w2 ∈{0, 1}m and m =
C1 · w1 + C2 · w2 mod q. Return ⊥if this is not the case.

818
K. Nguyen et al.
2. Determine the value of j = F(m, w, id) ∈[1, 4]. Let y = Gj(id) ∈{0, 1}k.
3. Generate a key-pair (otk, ovk) ←O.Kg(λ) and encrypt y with respect to
“identity” ovk as follows. Let G = HGP V (ovk) ∈Zn×k
q
. Sample r ←χn,
e1 ←χm, e2 ←χk, then compute the ciphertext

c1 = B⊤· r + e1,
c2 = G⊤· r + e2 + ⌊q/2⌋· y

∈Zm
q × Zk
q.
4. Using witness

id, z, x, certid = (τ, v, s), w = (w1, w2), y, (r, e1, e2)

, gen-
erate a NIZKAoK π for the relation Rlmps (Deﬁnition 5). This is done by
repeating κ times an interactive ZK argument of knowledge for Rlmps, and
made non-interactive as a triple π =

{CMTj}j∈[κ], CH, {RSPj}j∈[κ]

,
where CH = HF S(m, ovk, c1, c2, {CMTj}j∈[κ]) ∈{1, 2, 3}κ.
5. Compute a one-time signature sig ←O.Sign(otk, (m, F, c1, c2, π)).
Output the signature
Σ = (ovk, c1, c2, π, sig).
(7)
Verify(pp, m, F, Σ). This algorithm parses Σ as in (7), and returns 1 if:
1. O.Ver(ovk, (m, F, c1, c2, π), sig) = 1;
2. π is a valid NIZKAoK for Rlmps.
Open(pp, osk = TB, Σ, m, F). This algorithm proceeds as follows.
1. Compute G = HGP V (ovk) ∈Zn×k
q
, then using TB to sample a small-
norm matrix Eovk such that B · Eovk = G mod q.
2. Using Eovk to decrypt (c1, c2) (by computing ⌊(c2 −E⊤
ovk · c1)/(q/2)⌉),
so that to obtain y ∈{0, 1}k. Output ⊥if the decryption fails.
3. Output op = y.
5.3
Analyses of the Scheme
Efficiency. Let us analyze the asymptotic eﬃciency of the proposed scheme.
The size of pp is dominated by that of the veriﬁcation key of the signature
scheme from [37] and has bit-size O(ℓmn log q) = 
O(λ2). A signing key skid
consists of a few small-norm vectors and has bit-size O(m log q log β) = 
O(λ).
The size of each signature Σ is dominated by that of the NIZKAoK π, which is
roughly κ = O(λ) times the bit-size of the underlying witness

id, z, x, certid =
(τ, v, s), w = (w1, w2), y, (r, e1, e2)

. Overall, Σ has bit-size 
O(λ2).
Correctness. The correctness of the described MPS scheme follows directly
from the correctness of the signature scheme from [37], the correctness of the
GPV IBE scheme [26] and the perfect completeness of the employed Stern-like
argument system [40,52].
Security. The security of the scheme can be proven in the ROM, under the
SIS and the LWE assumptions.
Theorem 2. In the random oracle model, the described MPS system satisﬁes
privacy and unforgeability if (i) the SIS and LWE assumptions hold; (ii) OT S is
a strongly unforgeable one-time signature; (iii) The employed argument system
is a statistically ZKAoK.
Due to space restriction, the proof of Theorem 2 is deferred to the full version.

Multimodal Private Signatures
819
6
Open Questions
As the ﬁrst work that proposes the brand-new concept of Multimodal Private
Signatures, we do not expect to provide a thorough study of this primitive. We
leave several fascinating open questions for future investigations:
1. Constructing practically usable MPS schemes with expressive signing and
disclosing functions;
2. Studying theoretical connections between MPS and other advanced primitives
like functional encryption and fully-homomorphic encryption;
3. Designing eﬃcient MPS schemes with post-quantum security;
4. Equipping MPS with additional functionalities such as veriﬁable opening
and/or user revocation.
Acknowledgements. We would like to thank Dung Duong for helpful discussions.
We would also like to thank the anonymous reviewers of CRYPTO 2022 for valuable
suggestions. F. Guo, W. Susilo and G. Yang are partially supported by the Australian
Research Council Discovery Projects DP200100144 and DP220100003.
References
1. Ajtai, M.: Generating hard instances of lattice problems (extended abstract). In:
STOC 1996, pp. 99–108. ACM (1996)
2. Attrapadung, N., Hanaoka, G., Yamada, S.: Conversions among several classes of
predicate encryption and applications to ABE with various compactness tradeoﬀs.
In: Iwata, T., Cheon, J.H. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2015, Part I. LNCS, vol. 9452, pp.
575–601. Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-48797-
6 24
3. Bellare, M., Fuchsbauer, G.: Policy-based signatures. In: Krawczyk, H. (ed.) PKC
2014. LNCS, vol. 8383, pp. 520–537. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-642-54631-0 30
4. Bellare, M., Micciancio, D., Warinschi, B.: Foundations of group signatures: formal
deﬁnitions, simpliﬁed requirements, and a construction based on general assump-
tions. In: Biham, E. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2003. LNCS, vol. 2656, pp. 614–629.
Springer, Heidelberg (2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-39200-9 38
5. Bellare, M., Shi, H., Zhang, C.: Foundations of group signatures: the case of
dynamic groups. In: Menezes, A. (ed.) CT-RSA 2005. LNCS, vol. 3376, pp. 136–
153. Springer, Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-30574-3 11
6. Boneh, D., Boyen, X.: Short signatures without random oracles. In: Cachin, C.,
Camenisch, J.L. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2004. LNCS, vol. 3027, pp. 56–73. Springer,
Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-24676-3 4
7. Boneh, D., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Functional encryption: a new vision for public-key
cryptography. Commun. ACM 55(11), 56–64 (2012)
8. Bootle, J., Cerulli, A., Chaidos, P., Ghadaﬁ, E., Groth, J., Petit, C.: Short account-
able ring signatures based on DDH. In: Pernul, G., Ryan, P.Y.A., Weippl, E. (eds.)
ESORICS 2015, Part I. LNCS, vol. 9326, pp. 243–265. Springer, Cham (2015).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-24174-6 13

820
K. Nguyen et al.
9. Bootle, J., Lyubashevsky, V., Seiler, G.: Algebraic techniques for short(er) exact
lattice-based zero-knowledge proofs. In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio, D. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2019, Part I. LNCS, vol. 11692, pp. 176–202. Springer, Cham (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-26948-7 7
10. Boyle, E., Goldwasser, S., Ivan, I.: Functional signatures and pseudorandom func-
tions. In: Krawczyk, H. (ed.) PKC 2014. LNCS, vol. 8383, pp. 501–519. Springer,
Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-54631-0 29
11. Camenisch, J., Drijvers, M., Lehmann, A., Neven, G., Towa, P.: Short threshold
dynamic group signatures. In: Galdi, C., Kolesnikov, V. (eds.) SCN 2020. LNCS,
vol. 12238, pp. 401–423. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-57990-6 20
12. Camenisch, J., Hohenberger, S., Lysyanskaya, A.: Compact E-cash. In: Cramer,
R. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2005. LNCS, vol. 3494, pp. 302–321. Springer, Heidelberg
(2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/11426639 18
13. Camenisch, J., Hohenberger, S., Lysyanskaya, A.: Balancing accountability and
privacy using E-cash (extended abstract). In: De Prisco, R., Yung, M. (eds.) SCN
2006. LNCS, vol. 4116, pp. 141–155. Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/
10.1007/11832072 10
14. Canetti, R., Halevi, S., Katz, J.: Chosen-ciphertext security from identity-based
encryption. In: Cachin, C., Camenisch, J.L. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2004. LNCS,
vol. 3027, pp. 207–222. Springer, Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-540-24676-3 13
15. Chase, M., Lysyanskaya, A.: On signatures of knowledge. In: Dwork, C. (ed.)
CRYPTO 2006. LNCS, vol. 4117, pp. 78–96. Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://
doi.org/10.1007/11818175 5
16. Chaum, D.: Security without identiﬁcation: transactions system to make big
brother obsolete. Commun. ACM 28(10), 1030–1044 (1985)
17. Chaum, D., van Heyst, E.: Group signatures. In: Davies, D.W. (ed.) EUROCRYPT
1991. LNCS, vol. 547, pp. 257–265. Springer, Heidelberg (1991). https://doi.org/
10.1007/3-540-46416-6 22
18. Diaz, J., Lehmann, A.: Group signatures with user-controlled and sequential link-
ability. In: Garay, J.A. (ed.) PKC 2021, Part I. LNCS, vol. 12710, pp. 360–388.
Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-75245-3 14
19. El Kaafarani, A., Ghadaﬁ, E., Khader, D.: Decentralized traceable attribute-based
signatures. In: Benaloh, J. (ed.) CT-RSA 2014. LNCS, vol. 8366, pp. 327–348.
Springer, Cham (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-04852-9 17
20. Esgin, M.F., Nguyen, N.K., Seiler, G.: Practical exact proofs from lattices: new
techniques to exploit fully-splitting rings. In: Moriai, S., Wang, H. (eds.) ASI-
ACRYPT 2020, Part II. LNCS, vol. 12492, pp. 259–288. Springer, Cham (2020).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-64834-3 9
21. Esgin, M.F., Steinfeld, R., Liu, J.K., Liu, D.: Lattice-based zero-knowledge proofs:
new techniques for shorter and faster constructions and applications. In: Boldyreva,
A., Micciancio, D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019, Part I. LNCS, vol. 11692, pp. 115–146.
Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-26948-7 5
22. Fiat, A., Shamir, A.: How to prove yourself: practical solutions to identiﬁcation and
signature problems. In: Odlyzko, A.M. (ed.) CRYPTO 1986. LNCS, vol. 263, pp.
186–194. Springer, Heidelberg (1987). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-47721-7 12
23. Fujisaki, E., Suzuki, K.: Traceable ring signature. In: Okamoto, T., Wang, X. (eds.)
PKC 2007. LNCS, vol. 4450, pp. 181–200. Springer, Heidelberg (2007). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-71677-8 13

Multimodal Private Signatures
821
24. Garms, L., Lehmann, A.: Group signatures with selective linkability. In: Lin, D.,
Sako, K. (eds.) PKC 2019, Part I. LNCS, vol. 11442, pp. 190–220. Springer, Cham
(2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-17253-4 7
25. Gentry, C., Groth, J., Ishai, Y., Peikert, C., Sahai, A., Smith, A.D.: Using
fully homomorphic hybrid encryption to minimize non-interactive zero-knowledge
proofs. J. Cryptol. 28(4), 820–843 (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/s00145-014-
9184-y
26. Gentry, C., Peikert, C., Vaikuntanathan, V.: Trapdoors for hard lattices and new
cryptographic constructions. In: STOC 2008. ACM (2008)
27. Goldwasser, S., Micali, S., Rackoﬀ, C.: The knowledge complexity of interactive
proof-systems. In: STOC 1985, pp. 291–304. ACM (1985)
28. Groth, J.: Fully anonymous group signatures without random oracles. In: Kuro-
sawa, K. (ed.) ASIACRYPT 2007. LNCS, vol. 4833, pp. 164–180. Springer, Hei-
delberg (2007). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-76900-2 10
29. Groth, J., Ostrovsky, R., Sahai, A.: Perfect non-interactive zero knowledge for NP.
In: Vaudenay, S. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2006. LNCS, vol. 4004, pp. 339–358. Springer,
Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/10.1007/11761679 21
30. Groth, J., Sahai, A.: Eﬃcient non-interactive proof systems for bilinear groups.
In: Smart, N. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2008. LNCS, vol. 4965, pp. 415–432. Springer,
Heidelberg (2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-78967-3 24
31. Kawachi, A., Tanaka, K., Xagawa, K.: Concurrently secure identiﬁcation schemes
based on the worst-case hardness of lattice problems. In: Pieprzyk, J. (ed.)
ASIACRYPT 2008. LNCS, vol. 5350, pp. 372–389. Springer, Heidelberg (2008).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-89255-7 23
32. Kiayias, A., Tsiounis, Y., Yung, M.: Traceable signatures. In: Cachin, C.,
Camenisch, J.L. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2004. LNCS, vol. 3027, pp. 571–589.
Springer, Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-24676-3 34
33. Kiayias, A., Yung, M.: Secure scalable group signature with dynamic joins and
separable authorities. Int. J. Secur. Netw. 1(1/2), 24–45 (2006)
34. Kiltz, E.: Chosen-ciphertext security from tag-based encryption. In: Halevi, S.,
Rabin, T. (eds.) TCC 2006. LNCS, vol. 3876, pp. 581–600. Springer, Heidelberg
(2006). https://doi.org/10.1007/11681878 30
35. Kiltz, E., Pan, J., Wee, H.: Structure-preserving signatures from standard assump-
tions, revisited. In: Gennaro, R., Robshaw, M. (eds.) CRYPTO 2015, Part II.
LNCS, vol. 9216, pp. 275–295. Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-662-48000-7 14
36. Kohlweiss, M., Miers, I.: Accountable metadata-hiding escrow: a group signature
case study. In: PoPETs (2015)
37. Libert, B., Ling, S., Mouhartem, F., Nguyen, K., Wang, H.: Signature schemes
with eﬃcient protocols and dynamic group signatures from lattice assumptions. In:
Cheon, J.H., Takagi, T. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2016, Part II. LNCS, vol. 10032, pp.
373–403. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53890-
6 13
38. Libert, B., Ling, S., Mouhartem, F., Nguyen, K., Wang, H.: Zero-knowledge argu-
ments for matrix-vector relations and lattice-based group encryption. In: Cheon,
J.H., Takagi, T. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2016, Part II. LNCS, vol. 10032, pp. 101–131.
Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53890-6 4
39. Libert, B., Ling, S., Nguyen, K., Wang, H.: Zero-knowledge arguments for lattice-
based accumulators: logarithmic-size ring signatures and group signatures without
trapdoors. In: Fischlin, M., Coron, J.-S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2016, Part II. LNCS,
vol. 9666, pp. 1–31. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
662-49896-5 1

822
K. Nguyen et al.
40. Libert, B., Ling, S., Nguyen, K., Wang, H.: Zero-knowledge arguments for lattice-
based PRFs and applications to E-cash. In: Takagi, T., Peyrin, T. (eds.) ASI-
ACRYPT 2017, Part III. LNCS, vol. 10626, pp. 304–335. Springer, Cham (2017).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-70700-6 11
41. Libert, B., Ling, S., Nguyen, K., Wang, H.: Lattice-based zero-knowledge argu-
ments for integer relations. In: Shacham, H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2018,
Part II. LNCS, vol. 10992, pp. 700–732. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-319-96881-0 24
42. Libert,B.,Nguyen,K.,Peters,T.,Yung,M.:Bifurcatedsignatures:foldingtheaccount-
ability vs. anonymity dilemma into a single private signing scheme. In: Canteaut, A.,
Standaert, F.-X. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2021, Part III. LNCS, vol. 12698, pp. 521–552.
Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-77883-5 18
43. Ling, S., Nguyen, K., Stehl´e, D., Wang, H.: Improved zero-knowledge proofs of
knowledge for the ISIS problem, and applications. In: Kurosawa, K., Hanaoka,
G. (eds.) PKC 2013. LNCS, vol. 7778, pp. 107–124. Springer, Heidelberg (2013).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-36362-7 8
44. Maji, H.K., Prabhakaran, M., Rosulek, M.: Attribute-based signatures. In: Kiayias,
A. (ed.) CT-RSA 2011. LNCS, vol. 6558, pp. 376–392. Springer, Heidelberg (2011).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-19074-2 24
45. Masur, P.K.: Situational Privacy and Self-Disclosure: Communication Processes in
Online Environments. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
78884-5
46. Nandi, M., Pandit, T.: Predicate signatures from pair encodings via dual system
proof technique. J. Math. Cryptol. 13(3–4), 197–228 (2019)
47. Noether, S.: Ring signature conﬁdential transactions for Monero. IACR Cryptology
ePrint Archive 2015/1098 (2015)
48. Pedersen, T.P.: Non-interactive and information-theoretic secure veriﬁable secret
sharing. In: Feigenbaum, J. (ed.) CRYPTO 1991. LNCS, vol. 576, pp. 129–140.
Springer, Heidelberg (1992). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-46766-1 9
49. Peikert, C., Shiehian, S.: Noninteractive zero knowledge for NP from (plain) learn-
ing with errors. In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio, D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019, Part I.
LNCS, vol. 11692, pp. 89–114. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-26948-7 4
50. Rivest, R.L., Shamir, A., Tauman, Y.: How to leak a secret. In: Boyd, C. (ed.)
ASIACRYPT 2001. LNCS, vol. 2248, pp. 552–565. Springer, Heidelberg (2001).
https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-45682-1 32
51. Sakai, Y., Emura, K., Hanaoka, G., Kawai, Y., Matsuda, T., Omote, K.: Group sig-
natures with message-dependent opening. In: Abdalla, M., Lange, T. (eds.) Pairing
2012. LNCS, vol. 7708, pp. 270–294. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-642-36334-4 18
52. Stern, J.: A new paradigm for public key identiﬁcation. IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory
42(6), 1757–1768 (1996)
53. van der Sloot, B., de Groot, A. (eds.): The Handbook of Privacy Studies: An
Interdisciplinary Introduction. Amsterdam University Press, Amsterdam (2018)
54. Xu, S., Yung, M.: Accountable ring signatures: a smart card approach. In:
Quisquater, J.-J., Paradinas, P., Deswarte, Y., El Kalam, A.A. (eds.) CARDIS
2004. IIFIP, vol. 153, pp. 271–286. Springer, Boston, MA (2004). https://doi.org/
10.1007/1-4020-8147-2 18
55. Yang, R., Au, M.H., Zhang, Z., Xu, Q., Yu, Z., Whyte, W.: Eﬃcient lattice-based
zero-knowledge arguments with standard soundness: construction and applications.
In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio, D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019, Part I. LNCS, vol. 11692,
pp. 147–175. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-26948-7 6

