New Design Techniques for Eﬃcient
Arithmetization-Oriented Hash
Functions: Anemoi Permutations and Jive
Compression Mode
Cl´emence Bouvier1,2(B), Pierre Briaud1,2, Pyrros Chaidos3, L´eo Perrin2,
Robin Salen4, Vesselin Velichkov5,6, and Danny Willems7,8
1 Sorbonne University, Paris, France
2 Inria, Paris, France
3 National & Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece
4 Toposware, Inc., Boston, USA
5 University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland
6 Clearmatics, London, England
7 Nomadic Labs, Paris, France
8 LIX, Paris, France
anemoi@inria.fr
Abstract. Advanced cryptographic protocols such as Zero-knowledge
(ZK) proofs of knowledge, widely used in cryptocurrency applications
such as Zcash, Monero, Filecoin, Tezos, Topos, demand new crypto-
graphic hash functions that are eﬃcient not only over the binary ﬁeld
F2, but also over large ﬁelds of prime characteristic Fp. This need
has been acknowledged by the wider community and new so-called
Arithmetization-Oriented (AO) hash functions have been proposed,
e.g. MiMC-Hash, Rescue–Prime, Poseidon, Reinforced Concrete and
Griffin to name a few.
In this paper we propose Anemoi: a new family of ZK-friendly permuta-
tions, that can be used to construct eﬃcient hash functions and compres-
sion functions. The main features of these algorithms are that 1) they
are designed to be eﬃcient within multiple proof systems (e.g. Groth16,
Plonk, etc.), 2) they contain dedicated functions optimised for speciﬁc
applications (namely Merkle tree hashing and general purpose hashing),
3) they have highly competitive performance e.g. about a factor of 2
improvement over Poseidon and Rescue–Prime in terms of R1CS con-
straints, a 21%–35% Plonk constraint reduction over a highly optimized
Poseidon implementation, as well as competitive native performance,
running between two and three times faster than Rescue–Prime, depend-
ing on the ﬁeld size.
On the theoretical side, Anemoi pushes further the frontier in under-
standing the design principles that are truly entailed by arithmetization-
orientation. In particular, we identify and exploit a previously unknown
relationship between CCZ-equivalence and arithmetization-orientation.
In addition, we propose two new standalone components that can be
easily reused in new designs. One is a new S-box called Flystel, based
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2023
H. Handschuh and A. Lysyanskaya (Eds.): CRYPTO 2023, LNCS 14083, pp. 507–539, 2023.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-38548-3_17

508
C. Bouvier et al.
on the well-studied butterﬂy structure, and the second is Jive – a new
mode of operation, inspired by the “Latin dance” symmetric algorithms
(Salsa, ChaCha and derivatives). Our design is a conservative one: it
uses a very classical Substitution-Permutation Network structure, and
our detailed analysis of algebraic attacks highlights can be of indepen-
dent interest.
Keywords: Anemoi · Flystel · Jive · Arithmetization-oriented · Hash
functions · CCZ-equivalence · Plonk · R1CS · AIR · Merkle tree ·
Zero-knowledge · Arithmetic circuits · Algebraic attacks
1
Introduction
In recent years we have seen a rapid surge of interest in the practical application
of an old cryptographic construction known as zero-knowledge (ZK) proofs of
knowledge. Such protocols allow a prover P to convince a veriﬁer V that a certain
statement x is true without revealing any additional information beyond the fact
that it is veriﬁably correct. Such a piece of information may, for example, be that
the result of a speciﬁed complex computation is 1. ZK proofs of knowledge, and
more generally computational integrity proofs, allow V to verify that the result
of the proven computation is correct without having to perform the computation
herself. In fact, to verify correctness, V does not even need to know some of the
details of the computation e.g., its intermediate values or any potentially secret
inputs.
ZK proof systems have been introduced with the seminal work of Micali,
Goldwasser and Rackoﬀback in 1989 [27]. Traditionally, ZK protocols were
deployed to allow a prover to keep some elements of a computation secret (e.g.
a private key). More recently, the blockchain ecosystem has witnessed a rise of a
category of ZK protocols, namely Succinct Non-Interactive Arguments of Knowl-
edge (ZK-SNARKs), that leverages their succinctness property to relieve the ver-
iﬁer from the necessity to perform an expensive computation for which it may
not have suﬃcient resources (in terms of space as well as computational power).
The increased interest in such protocols today is largely driven by the latest
advancements in digital currencies such as Bitcoin, Ethereum, Tezos, Topos, etc.
In particular, ZK proofs make it possible to add privacy on a public blockchain
(e.g. Zcash [7]) and to perform oﬀ-chain computation veriﬁable by network nodes
with signiﬁcantly limited resources, improving scalability.
The computation performed by P and veriﬁed by V in a ZK proof is often
expressed as an arithmetic circuit composed of gates (algebraic operations e.g.
multiplication or addition) connected by wires. The quantities that pass over the
wires and are operated on by the gates are elements of a ﬁeld Fq, where q ≥2.
Cryptographic hash functions are fundamental to practical ZK applications.
They are often used for testing membership of some element(s) by means of
Merkle trees. They can also be used as part of the ZK protocol itself e.g. by
compressing multiple public inputs to a single hash. The modiﬁed protocol has

New Design Techniques
509
a reduced input footprint, and the collision resistance of the hash function implies
that security is not impacted. This is relevant in proof systems where the veriﬁer’s
costs are proportional to the number of public inputs such as Groth16 [32].
Modern cryptographic hash functions such as SHA2, SHA3 and BLAKE are
designed over vector spaces of the binary ﬁeld F2 (i.e. they work over bits),
while ZK protocols often operate over Fq for a large q – usually a prime num-
ber. Therefore the eﬃcient execution of ZK protocols in applications such as
Zcash or Filecoin, that aim to process millions of transactions per day, imposes
the need for new hash functions designed to be natively eﬃcient in Fq – the so-
called Arithmetization-Oriented (AO) designs. The need for new arithmetization-
oriented hash functions has been acknowledged by both researchers and engi-
neers. As a result, the past couple of years have seen a surge of new proposals of
hash functions that operate natively in Fq for q prime, enabling eﬃcient veriﬁ-
cation: MiMC-Hash [2], Poseidon [30], Rescue–Prime [3,41] and Griffin [28]
to name a few. Another line of work, including Reinforced Concrete [29] and
Tip5 [42], aims at exploiting lookup tables for more eﬃcient native computations,
while remaining practical inside proving systems. This additional requirement for
lookup tables however reduces the compatibility of these hash functions within
the space of proving systems, and hence limiting the chances of global adoption.
The Design Requirements of Arithmetization-Orientation. Building upon the
works mentioned above as well as on the study of practical use cases, we have
identiﬁed several properties and design requirements that are expected from
arithmetization-oriented hash functions.
Evaluation vs. Veriﬁcation. The operation for which the eﬃciency of an AO
primitive is the most crucial is not its evaluation, but rather its veriﬁcation.
Concretely, while the cost of evaluating y = F(x) given x remains important,
the step with the harshest constraints is a veriﬁcation: given both x and y,
checking if y is indeed equal to F(x) should be “eﬃcient”, where the exact
meaning of “eﬃcient” depends on the proof system considered.
b-to-1 compression. One of the main use cases for AO hash functions is in
Merkle trees. In this context, rather than a hash function taking arbitrarily
long inputs, protocol designers need a compression function mapping bm to
m ﬁnite ﬁeld elements, meaning a compression factor of b (often, b = 2).
Primitive Factories. Rather than a single primitive or a small family of prim-
itives (such as for instance AES-128/192/256), AO hash functions are deﬁned
for a vast number of ﬁeld sizes and security levels. In fact, we would argue
that algorithms like Poseidon are primitive factories1, and that the task of
the cryptanalysts is not only to assess whether speciﬁc instances are secure.
Rather, it is to verify if such factories can return weak algorithms. Fur-
thermore, since the protocols and arithmetization techniques vary, a factory
should be able to output primitives optimized for each use case.
1 “Factory” is here used in the sense of the programming design pattern, i.e. it is an
object returning functions.

510
C. Bouvier et al.
Performance constraints. The space and time complexities of proving sys-
tems depend on the size (i.e. the number of gates) of the arithmetized pro-
gram that is being veriﬁed. Therefore, it is crucial for practical applications
to minimize the number of gates. Otherwise, the cost of a proof may be so
high as to make it unusable, as the computational cost of the prover is often
the bottleneck of an entire system. AIR-based systems additionally require
keeping constraint degrees low for practical applications. Furthermore, good
conventional CPU architecture performance is still required as real world
applications tend to use the primitives both outside and inside the circuit.
Outline of Our Contributions. In this paper, we study each of the speciﬁc design
requirements of AO, and provide new tools to satisfy them. First, we present the
necessary theoretical background in Sect. 2.
We then present two building blocks. First, in Sect. 3 we introduce a new
mode of operation, Jive, which turns a public permutation into a t-to-1 com-
pression function. Its main advantage is that it compresses an input consisting
of tu words using a permutation operating on a state consisting of tu words,
unlike the sponge structure which needs a bigger state in order to accomodate a
capacity. Then, in Sect. 4, we argue that the asymmetry between the evaluation
and the veriﬁcation of a function is best framed in terms of CCZ-equivalence.
Using this insight, we propose a new family of non-linear components (S-boxes)
operating on F2
q which we call Flystel: they allow both a high degree evaluation,
and a low degree veriﬁcation.
In a natural progression, we use the Flystel structure to construct a new
permutation factory: Anemoi. It uses the familiar Substitution-Permutation Net-
work (SPN) structure, which simpliﬁes our security analysis. Its speciﬁcation is
given in Sect. 5, and our initial cryptanalysis is presented in Sect. 6. We combine
all these results together in Sect. 7, where we show via detailed benchmarks that
combining the Anemoi permutations with the Jive mode of operation allows us
to compete with the best AO hash functions in the literature in terms of per-
formance, and to substantially outclass them in some contexts. In particular, in
the case of Plonk, we can compute more than twice as many hashes for a ﬁxed
number of constraints as is possible with Poseidon, which to the best of our
knowledge was the best until now. We conclude the paper in Sect. 8.
2
Theoretical Background
In what follows, q is an integer corresponding to the size of the ﬁeld Fq, so
that q = p for some prime number p or q = 2n. In particular, for binary ﬁelds
F2n, we focus on the case where n is odd as it is harder to build low degree
permutations otherwise. As usual, the symbols “+” and “×” denote respectively
the addition and multiplication operations over Fq. We also let m ≥1 be an
integer corresponding to the number of ﬁeld elements we are operating on. We
denote by ⟨a, b⟩the usual scalar product of a ∈Fm
q and b ∈Fm
q which is such
that ⟨a, b⟩= m−1
i=0 aibi.

New Design Techniques
511
Below, we consider a function F : Fm
q →Fm
q , and recall some of the concepts
behind the use and analysis of functions to design symmetric cryptographic
primitives. We ﬁrst recall the deﬁnitions of their diﬀerential and linear properties,
and then that of CCZ-equivalence. While the latter has seldom been used in
practice so far, it plays a crucial role in our work.
Diﬀerential Properties. The Diﬀerence Distribution Table (DDT) of function F
is the two dimensional array δF , where δF [a, b] = #{x ∈Fm
q |F(x+a)−F(x) = b}.
The maximum value of δF [a, b] for a ̸= 0 is the diﬀerential uniformity [39] of F.
Linear Properties. While a general formula that works both when q is a power
of two and a prime can be given, it is simpler to treat the two cases separately,
especially given that the reader is probably familiar with the case of characteristic
2. If q = 2n, then the Walsh transform of the component ⟨b, F⟩: Fq →F2 for
any b ∈Fq\{0} is W⟨b,F ⟩(a) = 
x∈Fm
2n(−1)⟨a,x⟩+⟨b,F (x)⟩.
Otherwise, when q = p the Fourier transform of a function f : Fm
p →Fp is
the function Wf : Fm
p →C such that
Wf(a) =

x∈Fm
p
exp
2πi (⟨a, x⟩−f(x))
p

.
For a vectorial function F : Fm
q →Fm
q , we consider the Fourier transform of each
of its components, i.e. of all the linear combinations ⟨b, F⟩.
CCZ-Equivalence [19]. Let F : Fm
q →Fm
q and G : Fm
q →Fm
q be two functions.
They are aﬃne-equivalent if there exist two aﬃne permutations μ : Fm
q →Fm
q
and η : Fm
q →Fm
q such that F = η ◦G ◦μ. This can alternatively be written
using the graphs of these functions:
ΓF =

(x, F(x)) | x ∈Fm
q


	

graph of F
= L(ΓG) =

L (x, G(x)) | x ∈Fm
q

,
where L is the aﬃne permutation deﬁned by L(x, y) =

η(x), μ−1(y)

. If we
allow L to be any aﬃne permutation,2 we obtain CCZ-equivalence.
Deﬁnition 1 (CCZ-Equivalence). Let F and G be functions of Fm
q . We say
that they are CCZ-equivalent if there exists an aﬃne permutation L : (Fm
q )2 →
(Fm
q )2 such that ΓF = L(ΓG).
An important property of CCZ-equivalence that is instrumental in our work
is that it preserves the diﬀerential spectrum and the squared Walsh coeﬃcients.
2 Starting from a given function F, applying any aﬃne permutation of F2
q to its graph
is unlikely to yield the graph of another function G. Indeed, this would require that
the left hand side of L(x, F(x)) takes all the values in Fq as x goes through Fq, which
is a priori not the case. A mapping L that does yield the graph of another function
is called “admissible”, a concept that was extensively studied in [18].

512
C. Bouvier et al.
In other words, all functions within the same CCZ-equivalence class share the
same diﬀerential and linear properties and hence oﬀer the same resilience against
diﬀerential and linear attacks. It also means that it is suﬃcient to investigate
these properties for a single member of a CCZ-equivalence class.
Another relevant property of CCZ-equivalence is that it does not preserve
the degree of the function. In fact, there are known cases where a low-degree
function is CCZ-equivalent to a higher-degree one. It is most notably the case of
the so-called butterﬂy structure, originally introduced in [40], and then further
generalized in two diﬀerent ways in [16] and [34].
3
Modes of Operation
In advanced protocols, hash functions are used for two purposes. The ﬁrst is to
emulate a random oracle, in particular to return the “ﬁngerprint” or digest of a
message of arbitrary length. The idea is that this ﬁxed length digest is simpler
to sign than the full message. The second use is as a compression function within
a Merkle-tree: in this case, the hash function H is used to map two inputs of
size n to an output of size n, and the security of the higher level scheme relies
on its collision resistance. While a general purpose hash function like SHA-3 [10,
22] or an arithmetization-friendly one can safely be used for both cases, for
improved eﬃciency we chose a full hash function only for the random oracle case
(Sect. 3.1). Indeed, the speciﬁc constraints of the Merkle-tree case can be satisﬁed
more eﬃciently using a dedicated structure that remains permutation-based,
and which we introduce in Sect. 3.2. SAGE implementations of both modes are
provided in [14, App. C].
3.1
Random Oracle: The Sponge Structure
A random oracle is essentially a theoretical function that picks each output uni-
formly at random while keeping track of its previous outputs in order to remain a
deterministic function. The sponge construction is a convenient approach to try
to emulate this behaviour. First introduced by Bertoni et al. in [11], this method
was most notably used to design SHA-3. It is also how most arithmetization-
oriented hash functions have been designed, e.g. Rescue–Prime, gMiMC-Hash,
Poseidon [30], and Reinforced Concrete. Such hash functions can easily be
tweaked into eXtendable Output Functions (XOF) [22] should the need arise.
The overall principle of the sponge construction is best explained by the
diagram in Fig. 1. In this paper, we slightly modify the original approach to
operate on elements of Fq instead of F2. The main component of the structure is
a permutation P operating on Fr+c
q
, where both r and c are non-zero integers.
The rate r is the size of the outer part of the state, while c is the capacity and
corresponds to the size of the inner part of the state. The digest consists of h
elements of Fq. Then, to process a message m consisting of elements of Fq, we
apply the following operations.

New Design Techniques
513
Padding. A basic padding works as follows: append 1 ∈Fq to the message
followed by enough zeroes so that the total length is a multiple of r, and then
divide the result into blocks m0,...,mℓ−1 of r elements.
However, with this approach, we may end up using one more call to P in the
case where the length of the message was already a multiple of r. A more
eﬃcient approach is presented in [33]: if the length of the message is already
a multiple of r, then we do not append further blocks to it. Instead, we add a
constant to the capacity before squeezing. This is summarized as the addition
of σ which is equal to 0 if the message length is not a multiple of r, and to
1 otherwise (see Fig. 1). This variant also has the advantage of gracefully
handling the case where r = 1.
Absorption. For each message block mi, we add it into the outer part of the
state, and then apply P on the full state.
Squeezing. We extract min(h, r) elements from the outer part of the state to
generate the ﬁrst elements of the digest. If h > r, we apply P and then extract
additional elements again from the rate registers, repeating this process until
the desired digest length is reached.
⊞
m0
Fc
q
Fr
q
P
⊞
m1
P
⊞
m2
P
. . .
. . .
⊞
σ
⊞
mℓ−1
P
z0
P
. . .
. . .
z1
P
z⌈h/r⌉−1
Fig. 1. Sponge construction with the modiﬁcation of [33].
The security of a sponge rests on the properties of its permutation. Infor-
mally, the only special property of the permutation should be the existence of an
eﬃcient implementation. Its diﬀerential, linear, algebraic, etc. properties should
be similar to those expected from a permutation picked uniformly at random
from the set of all permutations.
Following a ﬂat sponge claim [11], the designers of such an algorithm can
essentially claim that any attack against it will have a complexity equivalent
to at least qc/2 calls to the permutation (provided h ≥c, h log2 q ≥2s and
c log2 q ≥2s). Thus, a ﬂat sponge claim states that a sponge-based hash function
provides c⌊log2 q⌋/2 bits of security.
3.2
Merkle Compression Function: The Jive Mode
One of the main use cases for an arithmetization-oriented hash function is as a
compression function in a Merkle tree. This case could be easily handled using
a regular hashing mode, such as the sponge structure discussed above. However,
due to the speciﬁcs of this use case, it is possible to use a more eﬃcient mode.

514
C. Bouvier et al.
Fig. 2. The Jive mode turning a permutation into a compression function.
In a Merkle tree, the elements considered are in Fm
q , where m is chosen so
that m⌊log2 q⌋≥n, where n is the intended security level. We then need to
hash two such elements to obtain a new one. As a consequence, unlike in the
usual case, the input size is ﬁxed, and is equal to exactly twice the digest size.
Given a permutation of (Fm
q )2, we can thus construct a suitable hash function
by plugging it into the following mode.
Deﬁnition 2 (Jive). Consider a permutation P deﬁned as follows:
P :

(Fm
q )b
→(Fm
q )b
(x0, ..., xb−1)
→(P0(x0, ..., xb−1), ..., Pb−1(x0, ..., xb−1)) ,
so that it operates on bm elements of Fq, where Pi(x0, . . . , xb−1) : 0 ≤i < b
refers to the i-th element in Fm
q of the output P(x0, . . . , xb−1) from P. The Jive
mode is built from P by deﬁning the following one way function Jiveb(P):
Jiveb(P) :

(Fm
q )b
→Fm
q
(x0, ..., xb−1)
→b−1
i=0 (xi + Pi(x0, ..., xb−1)) .
This approach, also described in Fig. 2 can be seen as a permutation-based
variant of the Davies-Meyer mode which, like the latter, crucially relies on a feed-
forward to ensure one-wayness. Alternatively, it can be interpreted as a truncated
instance of the mode used in the “Latin dance” ciphers ChaCha and Salsa [9],
which is also based on a public permutation combined with a feedforward. Inci-
dentally, we called it Jive after another Latin dance.
If used inside a Merkle tree, this mode can save some computations. For
example, in the case where the fan-in b is equal to 2, a sponge would use a
permutation operating on (Fm
q )3 in order to leave one vector of Fm
q free for the
capacity. Using Jive2 instead, we only need a permutation of (Fm
q )2. The trade-
oﬀof course is that, unlike a sponge-based approach, the relevance of Jive is
restricted to some speciﬁc cases.

New Design Techniques
515
4
The Flystel Structure
The performance metrics for AO algorithms diﬀer substantially from the usual
ones in symmetric cryptography. Neither the number of CPU cycles, nor the
RAM consumption or the code size are the dominant factors. Pin-pointing
exactly what is needed for the various protocols relying on arithmetization is
a diﬃcult task as each protocol has its own subtleties. For example, Plonk oﬀers
custom gates, which add complexity and a small overall overhead but can drasti-
cally decrease the cost of a particular operation, while other proof systems might
not. On the other hand, additions are essentially free for R1CS or AIR, but not
for Plonk. In addition, permutations of a sequence of elements are likely to incur
cost in Plonk or AIR (via copy-constraints), but are free in R1CS.
In this section, we present a family of non-linear components that provide
both the cryptographic properties that we need to ensure the security of our
primitives, and eﬃcient implementations across proof systems, which we call
open Flystel. It uses—and highlights—the connection between arithmetization-
orientation and CCZ-equivalence.
4.1
On CCZ-Equivalence and Arithmetization-Orientation
In order for a function F to be arithmetization-oriented, it is necessary that
verifying whether y = F(x) can be done using few multiplications in a speciﬁc
ﬁeld (whose size is dictated by other parts of the protocol). A very straight-
forward initial approach is to use a function F which, itself, can be evaluated
using a small number of multiplications: both MiMC-Hash [2] and Poseidon [30]
work in this way. The downside is that using a low degree round function may
imply vulnerability to attacks based on polynomial solving, known as algebraic
attacks. As a consequence, these algorithms have to use a high number of rounds.
A ﬁrst breakthrough on this topic was made by the designers of Rescue–
Prime [3]. They noticed that for a permutation F, checking if y = F(x) is
equivalent to checking if x = F −1(y). It allows them to use both xα and x1/α
(where x →xα is a permutation of the ﬁeld used) in their round function, with
α chosen so as to minimize the number of multiplications. It means that both
can be veriﬁed using a (cheap) evaluation of xα, and at the same time that the
degree of the round function is very high as 1/α is a dense integer of Z/(q −1)Z.
As a consequence, much fewer rounds are needed to prevent algebraic attacks.
We go further and propose a generalization of this insight. So far, we have seen
that AO implies that a function or its inverse must have a particular implemen-
tation property (low number of multiplications). In fact, we claim the following:
A subfunction is arithmetization-oriented if it is CCZ-equivalent to a
function that can be veriﬁed eﬃciently.
The above should come as no surprise since a permutation and its inverse are
known to be CCZ-equivalent [15]. In that sense, this insight is a natural gener-
alization of the one of the Rescue–Prime designers.

516
C. Bouvier et al.
Fig. 3. The Flystel structure (both variants are CCZ-equivalent).
Exploiting this idea is simple: suppose that F and G are such that ΓF =
L(ΓG), where L : (x, y) →(LL(x, y), LR(x, y)) is an aﬃne permutation, and
where G can be eﬃciently veriﬁed. Then we can use F to construct an AO algo-
rithm: checking if y = F(x) is equivalent to checking if LR(x, y) = G (LL(x, y)),
which only involves G and linear functions: it is eﬃcient.
Below, we present a ﬁrst component based on this idea: the Flystel. Never-
theless, we hope that further research in discrete mathematics will lead to new
non-linear components that are even better suited to this use case: we need more
permutations with good cryptographic properties (including a high degree) that
are CCZ-equivalent to functions with a low number of multiplications.
4.2
High Level View of the Flystel Structure
Let Qγ : Fq →Fq and Qδ : Fq →Fq be two quadratic functions, and let
E : Fq →Fq be a permutation. Then, the Flystel is a pair of functions relying
on Qγ, Qδ and E. The open Flystel is the permutation of (Fq)2 obtained using
a 3-round Feistel network with Qγ, E−1, and Qδ as round functions, as depicted
in Fig. 3a. It is denoted H, so that H(x, y) = (u, v) is evaluated as follows:
1. x ←x −Qγ(y),
2. y ←y −E−1(x),
3. x ←x + Qδ(y),
4. u ←x, v ←y .
We deﬁne by V : (y, v) →(Rγ(y, v), Rδ(y, v)) the closed Flystel function
over F2
q, where Rγ : (y, v) →E(y−v)+Qγ(y) and Rδ : (y, v) →E(y−v)+Qδ(v).
Our terminology of “open” for the permutation and “closed” for the function
is based on the relation between the Flystel and the butterﬂy structure, as
detailed later. In particular, the two Flystels are linked in the following way.
Proposition 1. For a given tuple (Qγ, E, Qδ), the corresponding closed and
open Flystel are CCZ-equivalent.
Proof. Let (u, v) = H(x, y). Then it holds that v = y −E−1 (x −Qγ(y)), so that
we can write x = E(y−v)+Qγ(y). Similarly, we have that u = Qδ(v)+E(y−v).

New Design Techniques
517
Consider now the set ΓH =

((x, y), H(x, y)) , (x, y) ∈F2
q

. By deﬁnition, we
have
ΓH =

((x, y), (u, v)) , (x, y) ∈F2
q

= L
 
((y, v), (x, u)) , (x, y) ∈F2
q
 
where
L
is
the
permutation
of
(F2
q)2
such
that
L−1 ((x, y), (u, v))
=
((y, v), (x, u)), which is linear. Using the equalities we established at the begin-
ning of this proof, we can write:
L−1(ΓH) =

((y, v), (x, u)) , (x, y) ∈F2
q

=

(y, v), (Qγ(y) + E(y −v), Qδ(v) + E(y −v))

, (y, v) ∈F2
q

=ΓV .
We deduce that ΓH = L(ΓV), so the two functions are CCZ-equivalent.
⊓⊔
This simple proposition has two crucial corollaries on which we will rely in the
remainder of the paper. The ﬁrst is that it suﬃces to investigate the diﬀerential
and linear properties of the closed butterﬂy to obtain results on the open one.
Corollary 1. The open and closed Flystel structures have identical diﬀerential
and linear properties. More precisely, the set of the values in the DDT of both
functions is the same, and the set of the square of the Fourier coeﬃcients of the
components is also the same.
The second corollary is the key reason behind the relevance of the Flystel
structure in the arithmetization-oriented setting and is stated below.
Corollary 2. Verifying that (u, v) = H(x, y) is equivalent to verifying that
(x, u) = V(y, v).
Indeed, Corollary 2 means that it is possible to encode the veriﬁcation of the
evaluation of the high degree open Flystel using the polynomial representation
of the low degree closed Flystel.
In characteristic 2, quadratic mappings correspond to diﬀerent exponents
than in the general case. As a consequence, when giving concrete instantiations
of the Flystel structure, we need to treat this case separately. To highlight the
diﬀerence, we call Flystel2 the instances used in characteristic 2, and Flystelp
the instances used in odd prime characteristic.
4.3
Characteristic 2
Let q = 2n, with n odd. Furthermore, let α = 2i + 1 be such that gcd(i, n) = 1,
so that x →xα is a permutation of Fq. In this case, the Flystel2 structure
with Qγ(x) = Qδ(x) = βxα, with β ̸= 0, and with E(x) = xα is a degenerate
generalized butterﬂy structure. It was studied in [34] as a generalization of the
structure introduced in [40], which was also reﬁned in [16]. We recall the following
particular case3 in Theorems 3, 4 and 5 of [34].
3 The result of Li et al. covers all generalized butterﬂies, not just those corresponding
to Flystel structures. In a Flystel, the ﬁrst parameter (which we will denote a)

518
C. Bouvier et al.
Proposition 2 ([34]). Let q = 2n with n odd, E = x →xα, where α = 2i + 1
is such that gcd(i, n) = 1, and Qγ = Qδ = x →βxα, where β ̸= 0 Then the
Flystel2 structures deﬁned by the functions Qγ, E, and Qδ have diﬀerential
uniformity equal to 4, linearity equal to 2n+1, and algebraic degree of n.
In practice, to prevent some attacks (see [13, App. A.3]), we instead use Qγ(x) =
βx3 + γ and Qδ(x) = βx3 + δ, where β, γ, δ are constants in Fq such that γ ̸= δ
and β ̸= 0. The particular values of those constants are not essential to the
properties of the construction as long as the noted requirements are satisﬁed.
For simplicity we set β = g, γ = g−1 and δ = 0 with g being a generator of the
multiplicative subgroup of the ﬁeld Fq. This results in Qγ : x →gx3 + g−1 and
Qδ : x →gx3 as depicted in Fig. 4a.
Fig. 4. The two variants of the open Flystel, mapping (x, y) to (u, v).
4.4
Odd Characteristic
When q = p, the three functions of the Flystelp structure are resp.: Qγ : x →
gx2 + g−1, E : x →xα, and Qδ : x →gx2, where α, g ∈Fq and g again is a
generator of the multiplicative subgroup of the ﬁeld Fq.
Diﬀerential Properties. Such structures have a low diﬀerential uniformity.
Proposition 3. Let q = p be a prime number, E = x →xα, where α is such
that gcd(α, p −1) = 1, and Qγ = x →gx2 + g−1, Qδ = x →gx2. Then the
Flystelp structures deﬁned by the functions Qγ, E, and Qδ has a diﬀerential
uniformity equal to α −1.
is set to 1. Their results for the diﬀerential uniformity and the linearity hold only
when β ̸= (1 + a)α, meaning that we simply need to make sure that β ̸= 0. For the
algebraic degree, the condition they give in their Theorem 5 to have a degree equal
to n + 1 degenerates into β2i+1 = β2i+1, which is never the case as i > 0.

New Design Techniques
519
Proof. Let a, b, c, d be elements of Fp such that (a, b) ̸= (0, 0). To investigate the
diﬀerential uniformity of V : (y, v) →(Rγ(y, v), Rδ(y, v)), we look at the number
of solutions (y, v) of (1).

Rγ(y + a, v + b) −Rγ(y, v) = c
Rδ(y + a, v + b) −Rδ(y, v) = d .
(1)
We have:

(y + a −(v + b))α + g−1 + g(y + a)2 −(y −v)α −g−1 −gy2
= c
(y + a −(v + b))α + g(v + b)2 −(y −v)α −gv2
= d .
We get:
c −d = g(y + a)2 −gy2 + gv2 −g(v + b)2 ,
which is equivalent to:
v = (2b)−1 
2ay + a2 −b2 −g−1(c −d)

.
As a consequence, we know that v can be expressed as an aﬃne polynomial in
y. We then have that the ﬁrst equation is an equation in y of degree α −1 (since
the terms yα cancel out), and thus has at most α −1 solutions for y. In the end,
we have at most α −1 solutions (y, v) for the system (since for each value of y,
there is one v).
⊓⊔
Linear Properties. We do not have a theoretical bound on the correlation for the
Flystelp structure, but we provide informal arguments supporting its security
against linear cryptanalysis attacks. Notice ﬁrst that Flystelp is deﬁned by
the functions Qγ, E−1 and Qδ, where Qγ and Qδ are quadratic. Given that the
function x2 is bent (i.e. its correlations are the lowest possible), we argue that a
linear trail which would activate just one of these functions should be expected
to have a very low correlation. In [13, App. A], we give a conjecture supported by
experimental results, stating that the linearity of Flystelp is lower than p log p.
Invariant Subset. Regardless of the characteristic, it holds that H (Qγ(x), x) =
(Qδ(x), x). Thus, setting Qγ = Qδ would mean that Flystel is the identity over
a subset of size q, which is why we use constant additions to ensure Qγ ̸= Qδ.
Nevertheless, this only ensures that the open Flystel is a translation over the
set {(Qγ(x), x) , x ∈Fq}, which remains cryptographically weak. While a priori
undesirable, the impact of this property can be mitigated. First, the subset over
which it has a simple expression is not an aﬃne space. Second, as we show in [13,
App. A.3], the propagation of such patterns can be broken via the linear layer.
Degree. Given the structure of the open Flystelp, its degree is lower bounded
by the inverse of α modulo p −1, a quantity which in practice corresponds to a
dense integer of Z/(p −1)Z. We deduce that one call to the open Flystelp is
likely to be of maximum degree and is therefore suﬃcient to thwart attacks that
exploit the low degree of a component, such as higher order diﬀerentials.

520
C. Bouvier et al.
4.5
Implementation Aspects
For direct computation, or witness calculation, one can simply implement the
open Flystel. For the veriﬁcation however, we also have the option to use the
closed Flystel structure, since there is no requirement for the various veriﬁca-
tion steps to be performed in a particular order as long as consistency is enforced.
In this case, the cost is one multiplication for Qγ and Qδ, and as many as are
needed to compute x →xα. This can be implemented using a technique slightly
more subtle than basic fast exponentiation, instead relying on addition chains
as discussed for example in [12]. Good addition chains can be found using the
addChain tool [37]. They are also particularly useful for implementing x →x1/α.
5
Description of Anemoi
In this section, we present new primitives, and the way to deterministically
construct all of their variants. At their core are the Anemoi permutations, that
operate on F2ℓ
q
for any ﬁeld size q that is either a prime number or a power
of two, and for positive integer ℓ. The round function of these permutations is
presented in Sect. 5.1: for each value of ℓ, and for each value of q, there is a
unique round function.
In order to build the primitives themselves, we need also to consider the secu-
rity level required as it will inﬂuence the number of rounds of the permutation
(note that the security level will also inﬂuence the size of the internal state). The
procedures to follow to deﬁne higher level algorithms are described in Sect. 5.2.
We then provide some speciﬁc instances in Sect. 5.3.
5.1
Round Function
A round function is a permutation of F2ℓ
q , where ℓ> 0 is an integer, and where
q is either a prime number or a power of 2 with a bitlength of at least 10.4
In order to deﬁne it, we organize its state into a rectangle of elements of Fq
of dimension 2 × ℓ. The elements in the ﬁrst row are denoted (x0, ..., xℓ−1), and
those in the second row are (y0, ..., yℓ−1) (see Fig. 5a). We refer to vectors of Fℓ
q
using the same upper-case letters, e.g. (x0, ..., xℓ−1) is denoted X. Subscripts
correspond to indices within a vector of Fℓ
q, and superscripts to round indices,
so Xi is the top part of the state at the start of round i. We let g be a speciﬁc
generator of the multiplicative subgroup of the ﬁeld Fq. If q is prime, then g is
the smallest such generator using the usual integer ordering. Otherwise, we have
that Fq = F2n = F2[x]/p(x), where p is an irreducible polynomial of degree n,
in which case we let g be one of its roots.
The function applied during round r is denoted Rr. It has the structure of
a classical Substitution-Permutation Network, whose components are described
4 The ﬁeld order must have a bitlength of at least 10 bits. The aim of this restriction
is to ensure that e.g. MDS matrices can be found as those might not be deﬁned for
small ﬁeld sizes.

New Design Techniques
521
below: ﬁrst the linear layer, then the S-box layer, and ﬁnally the constant addi-
tion. The overall action of each of these operations on the state is summarized
in Fig. 5, and a complete round is represented in Fig. 6.
Fig. 5. The internal state of Anemoi and its basic operations.
Constant Additions A. We let xj ←xj + ci
j and yj ←yj + di
j, where ci
j ∈Fq
and di
j ∈Fq are round constants that depend on both the position (index j)
and the round (index i). The aim is to increase the complexity of the algebraic
expression of multiple rounds of the primitive and to prevent the appearance of
patterns that an attacker could leverage in their attack.
They are derived using the digits of π using the following procedure. We let
(π0, π1) =
(1415926535897932384626433832795028841971693993751058209749445923078164062862089986280348253421170679,
8214808651328230664709384460955058223172535940812848111745028410270193852110555964462294895493038196)
be the ﬁrst and second blocks of 100 digits of π. We derive the round constants
ci
j and di
j by applying an open Flystel with the same parameters as in the
round function on the pair (πi
0, πj
1), where superscripts are exponents, so that
⎧
⎨
⎩
ci
j
= g(πi
0)2 +

πi
0 + πj
1
α
di
j
= g(πj
1)2 +

πi
0 + πj
1
α
+ g−1 ,
where the computations are done in Fq. When q = 2n, π0 and π1 are cast to
ﬁeld elements using the usual mapping sending n−1
k=0 xi2i to n−1
k=0 xigi, where
(x0, ..., xn−1) is the binary representation of x modulo 2n.
Diﬀusion Layer M. If ℓ> 1, then the diﬀusion layer M operates on X and Y
separately, so that
M(X, Y ) =

Mx(X), My(Y )

,
as summarized in Fig. 5b. The linear permutations Mx and My are closely
related, but diﬀer in order to break the column structure imposed by the non-
linear layer (see below). More precisely, we impose that Mx is a matrix of size

522
C. Bouvier et al.
Fig. 6. Rr, the r-th round of Anemoi, applied on the state (X, Y ) ∈Fℓ
q × Fℓ
q, where
X = (x0, ..., xℓ−1) and Y = (y0, ..., yℓ−1).
ℓ× ℓof Fq with maximum diﬀusion, i.e. such that its branching number is equal
to ℓ+ 1.5 We then construct My as My = Mx ◦ρ, where ρ is a simple word
permutation: ρ(x0, ..., xℓ−1) = (x1, ..., xℓ−1, x0).
The speciﬁcs of the linear permutation Mx then depend on the value of ℓ.
Furthermore, in order for our permutation to best satisfy diﬀerent proof systems,
we use diﬀerent techniques to construct them. At a high level, there are two
diﬀerent situations:
– if ℓis small, then the ﬁeld size is expected to be large in order for the per-
mutation to operate on a state large enough to oﬀer security against generic
attacks, meaning that this case is expected to happen when using pairing-
based proof systems like Groth16 or standard Plonk which require large scalar
ﬁelds for security.
– if ℓis large, then the situation is the opposite, meaning that we would expect
the ﬁeld size to be smaller and thus to correspond to e.g. ﬁelds used in FRI-
based proving systems.
In the Plonk case, additions have a non-negligible cost during veriﬁcation. As a
consequence, when ℓis at most equal to 4, we use linear layers requiring a number
of additions as small as possible. To this end, we adapt results from [21] where
Duval and Leurent present generic matrix constructions with a minimal number
5 Recall that the branching number of a linear permutation L is the minimum over
x ̸= 0 of hw(x) + hw (L(x)), where hw(x) denotes the Hamming weight of x.

New Design Techniques
523
of additions. Their goal was to limit the number of XORs needed to imple-
ment a linear layer, which was especially welcome in the context of lightweight
cryptography. In fact, one of their matrices has been used by the designers of
Saturnin [17] precisely for this reason. More generally, we think this surprising
connection between lightweight and arithmetization-oriented symmetric cryp-
tography is interesting in itself: limiting the total number of additions can be
important in both cases. As the approach of [21] is general enough that their
matrices can work in most ﬁelds, we thus opt to use their matrices. In practice,
when ℓ∈{2, 3, 4}, we use the matrix Mℓ
x where
M2
x =
 1
g
g
g2 + 1

, M3
x =
 g + 1
1
g + 1
1
1
g
g
1
1

, M4
x =

1
g2
g2
1 + g
1 + g
g + g2
g2
1 + 2g
g
1 + g
1
g
g
1 + 2g
1 + g
1 + g

.
If ℓ= 1, then there is a unique column in the internal state, so M1
x is the
identity.
Low-addition implementations are shown in [13, App. C], and the correspond-
ing diagrams are given in Fig. 7. As [21] contains several diﬀerent matrices for
each number of inputs, we based our matrices on their candidates that have the
lowest number of additions, and the least symmetries.
Fig. 7. Diagram representations of Mx.
In the AIR (STARK) case, linear operations are essentially free. Thus, the
dominating constraint on a linear layer is its native implementation cost, i.e.
the time it takes for a C or Rust program to evaluate Mx(x). To minimize this
cost, we need to minimize the value of the coeﬃcients appearing in the matrix.
To this end, we use the circulant matrix where the ﬁrst row is the smallest
in the lexicographic order, and such that the overall matrix is MDS. A script
implementing this generation method is provided in [13, App. C].
Pseudo-Hadamard Transform P. To destroy some undesirable involutive patterns
at the S-box level, we use a linear layer, namely the Pseudo-Hadamard transform
(PHT), to have diﬀusion on the rows. In particular, this means that we still have
a linear layer when ℓ= 1. The PHT has good properties since it can be easily

524
C. Bouvier et al.
implemented with: Y ←Y + X and X ←X + Y and is also relevant against
algebraic attacks (see Sect. 6.2).
S-box Layer S. Let H be an open Flystel operating over F2
q. Then we let
S(X, Y ) =

H(x0, y0), ..., H(xℓ−1, yℓ−1)

,
as summarized in Fig. 5d. A Flystel instance is deﬁned by 4 parameters, regard-
less of whether it is a Flystelp or Flystel2: the exponent α, the multiplier β,
and the two added constants γ and δ. First, as mentioned in Sect. 4.3, we let
β = g: setting β = 1 would lead to the invariant space (see [13, App. A.3])
having equation (x2, x), which we deem too simple; g is then the most natu-
ral non-trivial constant. Furthermore, in order to break the symmetry of the
Flystel, we impose that γ ̸= δ. We thus let γ = 0 and δ = g−1 as this value is
both diﬀerent from 1 and g while retaining a simple deﬁnition.
All that remains is to choose the exponent α. If q = 2n, then we let α = 3:
we have to use a Gold exponent (i.e. of the shape 2k + 1), and 3 always works
since n is odd. Otherwise, when q is prime, the process is a bit more involved as
a higher value allows using fewer rounds to thwart Gr¨obner-basis-based attacks,
but is also more expensive. Users should use the value of α that yields the most
eﬃcient algorithm according to their metrics.
5.2
Higher Level Algorithms
Anemoi. The Anemoi permutation iterates nr rounds of the round function
described in Fig. 6, followed by a call to the linear layer M:
Anemoiq,α,ℓ= M ◦Rnr−1 ◦... ◦R0 .
In symmetric cryptography, we usually remove outer linear layers, e.g. in the
AES. That is because they don’t contribute to the cryptographic strength of a
block cipher (e.g. can be removed “for free” by an adversary). In the case of
a sponge construction however, the adversary only controls a part of the state,
namely the outer part (the rate). Thus, starting/ﬁnishing with a diﬀusion layer
ensures that this control is spread across the full state in a way which is not
aligned with the non-linear layer. A similar goal could be achieved using indirect
injection, as is done in Esch [5].
The number of rounds nr is computed using the following rule that is derived
from our security analysis in Sect. 6.
More precisely, we focus on algebraic attacks since it appears to be the bottle-
neck. Indeed, we only need to activate few S-boxes to prevent statistical attacks.
In prime characteristic we have an upper bound that is (α −1)/p2 for the prob-
ability of a diﬀerential transition for one S-box, and that is conjectured to be
log p/p for a linear transition. In the case where q = 2n, similar arguments hold:
the best diﬀerential probability is 4/22n, and the best linear probability is around

New Design Techniques
525
2−n (see [13, App. A] for more details). Let s be the required security level, and
(q, ℓ, α) be the parameters imposed by the use case. As we believe that a con-
struction with more branches gives more freedom to the attacker, we choose a
security margin that increases with the size of the internal state, but setting a
maximum of 5 additional rounds. In Sect. 6.2, we study two models for algebraic
attacks. We ﬁx the number of rounds by considering the ﬁrst model, which is
easier to study, and add a security margin of 2 rounds to take into account the
second model. Whilst it is not clear whether the second model actually outper-
forms the ﬁrst, its complexity is more diﬃcult to estimate and we opt to increase
the safety margin as a conservative measure. Then the number of rounds nr is
the smallest value satisfying both of the following conditions:
nr ≥max
⎧
⎪
⎨
⎪
⎩
8 , min(5, 1 + ℓ)

	

security margin
+
2 + min

r ∈N
 Calg(r) ≥2s 

	

to prevent algebraic attacks, see Sect. 6.2
⎫
⎪
⎬
⎪
⎭
, (2)
where Calg(r) =
4ℓr+κα
2ℓr
2 when q = p and Calg(r) = ℓr · 92ℓr when q = 2n.
We compute the number of rounds needed both for a security level of 128
bits (Table 1a), and of 256 bits (Table 1b). Note that the values of the digest
size h and of the state size 2ℓn = 2ℓlog2(q) must be coherent with the desired
security level.
Table 1. Number of Rounds of Anemoi.
α
3
5
7
11
ℓ= 1
21
21
20
19
ℓ= 2
14
14
13
13
ℓ= 3
12
12
12
11
ℓ= 4
12
12
11
11
ℓ= 6
10
10
10
10
ℓ= 8
10
10
9
9
(a) When s = 128.
α
3
5
7
11
ℓ= 1
37
37
36
35
ℓ= 2
22
22
21
21
ℓ= 3
17
17
17
17
ℓ= 4
16
16
15
15
ℓ= 6
13
13
13
13
ℓ= 8
12
12
11
11
(b) When s = 256.
AnemoiSponge. This function is a “regular” hash function, in the sense that
it should be able to process messages of arbitrary length. We therefore rely on
the sponge construction detailed in Sect. 3, where r words are used as the rate,
c are used as the capacity, and where the permutation is the Anemoi instance
operating on Fr+c
q
. Note that the inner workings of Anemoi imply that r+c must
be even.

526
C. Bouvier et al.
AnemoiJive. We can construct a compression function mapping b-to-1 vectors
of Fm
q elements, using Jiveb and an Anemoi instance operating on bm elements
of Fq. The only constraint is, again, that bm must be even.
Security Claims. All the Anemoi permutations generated as deﬁned above can be
used safely to construct cryptographic primitives with the given security level.
In particular, we make a “hermetic sponge” claim about all the hash functions
AnemoiSponge generated as above, and we claim that all the AnemoiJive func-
tions are secure b-to-1 compression functions (provided of course that the state
size is chosen correctly).
5.3
Speciﬁc Instances
In this section, we present some examples of functions in the Anemoi family that
are deﬁned over diﬀerent ﬁelds, aim for diﬀerent APIs (both AnemoiSponge and
AnemoiJive), and for a security level of 127 bits.
We consider the case of the BLS12-381 curve, in which case (⌈log2(q)⌉, α, g) =
(255, 5, 7), and the case of the BN-254 curve, in which case (⌈log2(q)⌉, α, g) =
(254, 5, 2). In both cases, we aim for 127 bits of security. We decided to consider
these two curves because they have been historically used in SNARKs and have
been deployed in production in projects that use Arithmetization-Oriented hash
functions like ZCash or Ethereum.
AnemoiJive.
AnemoiJive-BLS12-381 and AnemoiJive-BN-254 are Merkle
Compression functions mapping two elements of Fq to a unique one. In order to
reach a security level of 127 bits, ℓ= 1 is suﬃcient in both cases. The underlying
permutations of the compression functions then use the following components.
S-box. H uses the parameters g and α corresponding to the elliptic curve.
Linear layer. As ℓ= 1, we use the Pseudo-Hadamard transform:

2 1
1 1

(3)
Round Constants. These are generated as described in Section 5.1.
Number of Rounds. Using Eq. (2), we obtain that 19 rounds are needed for
a security level of 127 bits.
Round r is then deﬁned as Rr : (x, y) →H◦M(x+cr, y +dr), and we deﬁne the
compression functions as follows. Let (x, y) be the input, and P be the Anemoi
instance deﬁned by P := M ◦R18 ◦... ◦R0. Then AnemoiJive(x, y) is evaluated
as follows: ﬁrst, let (u, v) ←P(x, y), then, return x + y + u + v.
Security Claims. The best way to ﬁnd collisions in AnemoiJive-BLS12-381
(respectively AnemoiJive-BN-254) is to rely on a generic collision search. Since
the output is an element of Fq with log2(q) ≥254, this is expected to require
about 2127 function calls on average.

New Design Techniques
527
AnemoiSponge. AnemoiSponge-BLS12-381 and AnemoiSponge-BN-254 are hash
functions mapping a sequence {xi}0≤i<m of elements of Fq to an element of
Fq, where m is a positive integer. It is constructed using a sponge which relies
on Anemoi as the permutation. We aim to provide about 127 bits of security,
meaning that a capacity of 1 word of Fq is enough in both cases. We then pick
an identical rate, so that r = c = 1, and thus ℓ= 1. The permutations used are
then the same as for AnemoiJive-BLS12-381 and AnemoiJive-BN-254.
Security Claims. We claim that AnemoiSponge-BLS12-381 and AnemoiSponge-
BN-254 provide 127 bits of security against all known attacks.
6
Security Analysis
The security of AnemoiSponge and AnemoiJive is reduced to the security of
their inner permutation, namely the Anemoi family. In this section, we argue
that the latter has suﬃcient security level.
6.1
“Classical” Attacks
We call “classical” attacks those that have been used to target algorithms
designed over (F2)n. As we argue below, we do not expect those to be a sig-
niﬁcant problem. More detailed arguments are provided in [13, App. A].
Statistical attacks like diﬀerential and linear cryptanalysis exploit patterns
that exist at the S-box level, and which are then propagated through the linear
layers to form so-called “trails”. As the Flystel has excellent diﬀerential and
linear properties, we do not expect those to pose a threat (especially given that
our linear layers are MDS).
For integral attacks and invariant subspaces, we rely on the fact that our
round structure is not “aligned”, meaning that the non-linear and linear layers
operate over diﬀerent alphabets (the columns and the rows). As a consequence,
the propagation of the patterns exploited by these attacks is hindered. Similarly,
thanks to the MDS matrix, truncated diﬀerentials, boomerang attacks and MitM
attacks also do not pose a threat.
We refer the reader to [13, App. A] for a more detailed security analysis of
the proposed constructions with respect to classical attacks.
6.2
Algebraic Attacks
Gr¨obner basis attacks may constitute the main threat as is usually the case for
this type of primitives. Since we are mainly interested in a minimal condition
on the number of rounds to reach a security of 2s bits, we allow ourselves to
underestimate complexity in several places, out of caution. We focus on the
following version of the CICO (Constrained Input Constrained Output) problem,
stated for ℓ= 1:
Deﬁnition 3. Let P : F2
q →F2
q be a permutation. The CICO problem consists
in ﬁnding (yin, yout) ∈F2
q such that P(0, yin) = (0, yout).

528
C. Bouvier et al.
Intermediate Variables. There are plenty of ways to model CICO as an alge-
braic system. We start from the one which consists in introducing equations and
variables at each round. Such an approach was already proposed to study similar
arithmetization-oriented primitives [8,20,31]. It applies to Anemoi for any ℓ≥1
but for practical reasons a large part of our experiments has been restricted to
ℓ= 1. We now present our analysis of this particular case but we will also indi-
cate how to deal with several columns. For 0 ≤j ≤nr −1, let us deﬁne fj and
gj by
(xj+1, yj+1) = Rj(xj, yj) ⇔
fj := f(xj, yj, xj+1, yj+1) = 0
gj := g(xj, yj, xj+1, yj+1) = 0,
where Rj is the round function and where f and g are closely related to the
veriﬁcation equations.
Modeling 1. We consider the system F ⊂Fq[x0, . . . , xnr, y0, . . . , ynr] contain-
ing the round equations fj and gj for 0 ≤j ≤nr −1.
The CICO system FCICO is simply Modeling 1 in which we ﬁx x0 = 0 and xnr = 0.
This system can be seen as containing 2nr equations and variables when ℓ= 1
and 2ℓnr in the general case. To solve it, we apply the standard zero-dimensional
strategy:
1. Compute a Gr¨obner basis Gdrl for a DRL ordering [36, Deﬁnition 1.4.3],
2. Compute a new Gr¨obner basis Glex for the LEX ordering by using the FGLM
algorithm [23] on Gdrl.
For Step 1, the running time of Gr¨obner basis algorithms such as F4 [24] or F5
[25] is usually estimated by evaluating the solving degree of the system denoted
by dsolv. This degree can be informally deﬁned as the maximal degree of a poly-
nomial which occurs during the Gr¨obner basis computation. Once dsolv is known,
a generic estimate for the cost of F4/F5 is
O
dsolv + nv
nv
ω
(4)
ﬁeld operations, where nv is our number of variables and where 2 ≤ω ≤3 is a
linear algebra constant. We stress that this estimation is heuristic and it is an
upper bound that does not take into account the structure or the sparsity of the
given Macaulay matrices. In particular, to use it as a guidance, we will adopt
the conservative ω = 2 for the linear algebra constant. Regarding Step 2, the
complexity of FGLM is in O (nv · deg (ICICO)ω), where ICICO := ⟨FCICO⟩is the
ideal generated by the system and where deg (ICICO) is the degree of this ideal.
Characteristic 2. In even characteristic, we derive the number of rounds from
the following Estimate 1.

New Design Techniques
529
Estimate 1. We estimate the cost of solving FCICO in even characteristic by
one of the FGLM steps. This step has complexity
O(ℓnr · 9ωℓnr),
where ℓis the number of columns and ω is the linear algebra exponent from the
FGLM algorithm.
More details are provided in [13, App. B.1] the full version of this work, where
we focus on the case ℓ= 1. In short, Estimate 1 comes from the fact that the
cost of the Gr¨obner basis computation on FCICO is mostly independent from the
number of rounds and that the cost of FGLM can be approximated by the one
on a generic system containing 2ℓnr cubic equations.
Odd Characteristic. The FCICO system behaves diﬀerently in odd character-
istic since the dominant cost corresponds to the Gr¨obner basis computation. We
derive the number of rounds from the following Estimate 2, where dexp is the
experimental solving degree of FCICO given in Conjecture 1.
Conjecture 1 (From experiments for ℓ= 1). We have
dexp ≥2nr + κα,
where κα is a constant depending only on α. We found κ3 = 1, κ5 = 2, κ7 =
4, κ9 = 7 and κα = 9 for6 α ≥11.
Estimate 2. In odd characteristic, we estimate the cost of solving FCICO for
ℓ= 1 by one of the Gr¨obner basis steps. By using Equation (4), it has complexity
O
dexp + 2nr
2nr
ω
,
where dexp is given in Conjecture 1 and where ω is a linear algebra constant.
[13, App. B.2] contains more details on Conjecture 1 and Estimate 2. There,
we also compare FCICO to another system denoted by PCICO which seems to
take advantage of the particularities of our design but which does not seem to
bring an improvement, at least asymptotically. Still, we add 2 extra rounds on
top of Estimate 2 to ensure that these equations will not jeopardize security if
exploited in a more ingenious way. We ﬁnd it interesting that the complexities
corresponding to the resolution of each system are extremely similar, despite
their a priori signiﬁcantly diﬀerent structures.
When ℓ> 1, the number of equations and variables in FCICO is naturally
multiplied by ℓand thus experiments were extremely diﬃcult to conduct. We
generalize Conjecture 1 to ℓ> 1 by replacing 2nr by 2ℓnr everywhere, which is
natural when looking at the expressions of the Macaulay bound. Similarly, we
note that the bounds given for Rescue in [8] exhibit this extra ℓfactor. We adjust
the number of variables nv := 2ℓnr accordingly to obtain the ﬁnal estimate.
6 We would expect the value of κα to keep increasing with α but the computations
needed to estimate it become too costly as α increases.

530
C. Bouvier et al.
7
Benchmarks
In this section, we compare various instances of Rescue–Prime, Poseidon, Grif-
fin and Anemoi with respect to SNARK metrics: R1CS (Sect. 7.1) and Plonk
(Sect. 7.2), and STARK: AIR (Sect. 7.3). For Plonk performance, we will also
conduct a comparison with Reinforced Concrete.
Due to the increasing number of projects revolving around zk-STARKs, which
do not require an algebraic group with large underlying ﬁelds, we also illustrate
native performance comparison of 2-to-1 compression functions based on Rescue–
Prime, Poseidon and Anemoi on a 64-bit ﬁeld used in various projects [1,43].
To do so, we need to set the parameters. Then, let Fq, where q = p, be a
prime ﬁeld, and let t be the number of ﬁeld elements we operate on (t = 2ℓfor
Anemoi). Besides, let s denote the security level in bits, nr the number of rounds,
and Cα the cost of an exponentiation x →xα.
Rescue–Prime requires 1.5 · max{5, ⌈(s + 2)/4t⌉} rounds when α = 3
and 1.5 · max{5, ⌈(s + 3)/5.5t⌉} rounds when α = 5 (see [3,41]). Posei-
don has nr
= RF + RP rounds. While the bound is a complex expres-
sion, in our setting and for the safety margin recommended by the authors,
it holds that RF = 8, and that RP must be higher than (or equal to)
1.075 · (⌈logα(2) · min{s, log2(p)}⌉+ ⌈loga t⌉−RF). Griffin requires at least
⌈1.2 max{6, 1 + RGB}⌉rounds where RGB is the smallest integer such that
min
 RGB·(α+t)+1
1+t·RGB

,
αRGB+1+RGB
1+RGB
!
≥2s/2.
In the following, we use the nr values from Sect. 5.2.
7.1
R1CS Systems
We ﬁrst estimate the number of constraints for R1CS. Using the closed Flystel
of Fig. 3b, we obtain the following veriﬁcation equations for the S-Box:

(y −v)α + βy2 + γ −x = 0
(y −v)α + βv2 + δ −u = 0 .
(5)
Then, evaluating one S-Box costs Cα constraints to obtain (y −v)α, and 1 con-
straint for each of the two quadratics. For Rescue–Prime and Poseidon, each
S-Box costs Cα constraints. For Griffin, each S-Box costs 2 · Cα constraints for
the ﬁrst two words, and 1 constraint for each squaring of L and each word of the
remaining state. As a consequence, when using Rescue–Prime, Poseidon, Grif-
fin and Anemoi as hash functions in sponge mode, the number of constraints is
respectively Cα · 2t · nr, Cα · (tRF + RP), (Cα + t −2) · 2nr and (Cα + 2) · ( t
2 · nr).
We compare the number of constraints for those four schemes in Table 2. As
we can see, the Anemoi permutations are consistently much more eﬃcient than
both Poseidon and Rescue–Prime by about a factor 2. Anemoi and Griffin
are on par, and Anemoi takes the advantage for α = 3.

New Design Techniques
531
Table 2. Total R1CS, Plonk and AIR cost for several hash functions (s = 128).
t
Rescue’
Poseidon
Griffin
Anemoi
R1CS
2
208
198
-
76
3
216
214
96
-
4
224
232
112
96
6
216
264
-
120
8
256
296
176
160
Plonk
2
312
380
-
189
3
432
594
197
-
4
560
824
260
308
6
756
1344
-
444
8
1152
1920
574
624
AIR
2
156
300
-
126
3
162
324
144
-
4
168
348
168
168
6
162
396
-
216
8
192
480
264
288
(a) when α = 3.
t
Rescue’
Poseidon
Griffin
Anemoi
R1CS
2
240
216
-
95
3
252
240
96
-
4
264
264
110
120
6
288
315
-
150
8
384
363
162
200
Plonk
2
320
344
-
210
3
420
512
173
-
4
528
696
222
336
6
768
1125
-
480
8
1280
1609
492
672
AIR
2
200
360
-
210
3
210
405
180
-
4
220
440
220
280
6
240
540
-
360
8
320
640
360
480
(b) when α = 5.
7.2
Plonk
For ease of exposition, we will consider rounds to be shifted so that constant
additions and linear operations come after the S-box. As for R1CS, we again
investigate Eq. (5). In standard Plonk (i.e. 3 wires and no custom gates), eval-
uating an S-Box costs 1 constraint to derive w = y −v and Cα constraints to
obtain wα, 1 constraint for each of the two quadratics, and 1 each for the sums
on x, u. The total cost for the S-box layer with 3 wires is (Cα + 5) t
2.
The constant additions can be folded into the nr + 1 linear layers and can thus
be disregarded. For t = 2, the linear layer consists of the PHT, which requires 2 con-
straints. For t > 2, the linear layer itself consists of 2 separate matrix-vector mul-
tiplications, each producing t
2 sums of t
2 terms, requiring t · ( t
2 −1) constraints, in
addition to a cost of t constraints for the PHT. However, the number of constraints
per matrix multiplication can be reduced by choosing MDS matrices lowering the
number of additions. For the matrices given for t = 6 and t = 8 in Sect. 5.1, we
have respectively a cost of 10 and 16 per linear layer.
Poseidon uses simpler S-Boxes, each costing Cα constraints. Full rounds use
t S-boxes whereas partial ones use only one. Using the optimisation described in
the Supplementary Material of [30], the linear layer costs t · (t −1) constraints
for the full rounds and 2t −2 constraints for the partial rounds. Rescue–Prime
uses t standard and t inverted S-Boxes, each costing Cα. Each round also utilizes
2 independent linear layers each costing t · (t −1) constraints for all rounds.
For Griffin, the cost of the S-BOX is 2·Cα+3+4·(t−3). Regarding the linear
layer, the matrix used for t = 3 can be computed in 5 constraints. For t = 4, the
cost of one multiplication by the matrix they chose is 8. By observing intermediate
variables from the S-BOX computation which can be reused in the linear layer
computation, Griffin gives 222 constraints for t = 4 (resp. 492 for t = 8).
We then compare the number of constraints for these four schemes in Table 2.
Anemoi is consistently ahead of Rescue–Prime and Poseidon with a signiﬁcant

532
C. Bouvier et al.
margin, but for larger t, our performances are slightly worse than Griffin,
since our strategy to compute the security margin is diﬀerent: we try to take
into account the greater freedom given by the larger number of branches, which
impacts our number of rounds.
Plonk Optimizations. One of the more fruitful, but also challenging aspects
of Plonk is its ability to extend the expressive power of the constraints at a
reasonable cost. In the analysis, the linear layer cost dominates that of the S-
Boxes. This is particularly impactful for Poseidon, as the eﬃciency beneﬁt of
its partial rounds is negated. The recent work of Ambrona et al. [4] presents a
set of generic and tailored optimizations for Plonk applicable to Poseidon.
While an exhaustive comparison of optimization options is beyond the scope
of this work, real-world usage implies that a reasonable set of optimizations have
been applied before deployment. For this reason, we perform a minimal com-
parison between: Poseidon as optimized by Ambrona et al., and Reinforced
Concrete [29] which was built with Plonk optimizations in mind, and Anemoi. As
Poseidon and Reinforced Concrete are sponge based we use s = 128, α = 5
and t = 3 to represent popular deployment choices, while we set t = 2 for
Anemoi, using the Jive2 mode For comparison we also extrapolate a Jive2 version
of Poseidon with the optimizations of [4], and Reinforced Concrete.
We use one of the constraint systems used by Ambrona et al. [4]: a 3-wire
constraint system with a x5, as well as selectors for the next constraint wires:
qL.a + qR.b + qO.c + qM.a.b + q5.c5 + qL′.a′ + qR′.b′ + qO′.c′ .
At a base level, the relations we need to express for one AnemoiJive2 round
are
1. y −v −w = 0
2. w5 + βyy + γ −x = 0
3. w5 + βvv + δ −u = 0
4. ˜u −2u −v −ρ = 0
5. ˜v −u −v −κ = 0
where ˜u, ˜v are the values of u, v after the linear layer and ρ, κ are derived
from round constants. We can save one constraint by calculating ˜u directly and
eliminating u. We also need to make sure that the relations ﬁt into the available
wires, and make sure that the last constraint leaves the “next constraint” wires
free, so that each set of round constraints can be followed by any constraint
without restriction. To accomplish this, we also need to perform some reordering.
Setting ρ′ = ρ + 2δ and κ′ = κ −ρ, the end result is:
1. w5 + βyy + γ −x = 0,
for: (a, b, c) = (y, y, w) , (a′, b,′ c′) = (x, , ) ,
2. y −v −w = 0,
for: (a, b, c) = (x, y, w) , (a′, b,′ c′) = (v, , ) ,
3. 2w5 + 2βvv + ρ′ + v −˜u = 0, for: (a, b, c) = (v, v, w) , (a′, b,′ c′) = (˜u, , ) ,
4. ˜v −˜u + u −κ′ = 0,
for: (a, b, c) = (˜u, ˜v, u) , (a′, b,′ c′) = ( , , ) .
Thus, we are able to perform one AnemoiJive round in 4 constraints, and 2
additional constraints to account for the initial linear layer. We can fold the ﬁnal

New Design Techniques
533
Jive2 addition into the ﬁnal constraint (using the “next” wires), and ensuring the
initial layer constraints are directly below it. With four wires, we can eliminate
w, by having the 5th power gate operate on y −v. Rounds are reduced to 3
constraints, and we need only 1 extra constraint for the ﬁrst linear layer as we
handle x0 inline.
Table 3. Constraints comparison of several hash functions for Plonk with an additional
custom gate to compute x5. We ﬁx s = 128, and prime ﬁeld sizes of 256.
t
Constraints
Poseidon
3
110
2
88
Reinforced Concrete
3
378
2
236
Griffin
3
125
AnemoiJive
2
86
(a) With 3 wires.
t
Constraints
Poseidon
3
98
2
82
Reinforced Concrete
3
267
2
174
Griffin
3
111
AnemoiJive
2
64
(b) With 4 wires.
We summarize our ﬁndings in Table 3. We extrapolate the t = 2 costs for
Poseidon and Reinforced Concrete by assuming a Jive2 mode of operation
is feasible at no additional overhead or increase in rounds. Against the next-
best proposed system, Poseidon for t = 3 as optimized by [4] we achieve
a 21% reduction when using 3 wires and 35% when using 4. We note that
while the costs between Poseidon, Anemoi and Griffin are directly compa-
rable as they use the same features (namely x5 and “next constraint” selectors),
Reinforced Concrete leverages lookup tables [26,29] instead. We do note that
by [4, Table 2], the additional overhead (compared to standard Plonk) for the
custom gates we describe is between 10% and 40%.
Plonk Optimisations with an Additional Quadratic Custom Gate. We
can go further in the optimisation given above by extending Plonk with a custom
gate to compute the square of a wire, which adds a negligeable overhead to the
prover and the veriﬁer time. In the 3-wires setting, having the quadratic custom
gate on the wire b frees a wire in the constraints given above and allow us to
compute two rounds in 5 constraints as described below7, giving a total number
of constraints of 56.
1. w2
0 + w0y0 + w0 −x0 −y0 + y1 + qc,
where: (a, b, c) = (y0, w0, x0)
and (a′, b,′ c′) = (y1, , ) ,
2. w2
1 + w1y1 −w0 + w1 + x2 + y0 −y1 + qc,
where: (a, b, c) = (y1, w1, w0)
and (a′, b,′ c′) = (y0, x2, ) ,
7 For readability, the selectors values have been omitted.

534
C. Bouvier et al.
3. w1 −x2 −y1 + y2 −qc,
where: (a, b, c) = (y0, x2, y2)
and (a′, b,′ c′) = (w1, y1, ) ,
4. w5
1 + y2
1 −w0 + y0 −y1 + qc,
where: (a, b, c) = (w1, y1, )
and (a′, b,′ c′) = (w0, y0, ) .
5. w5
0 + y2
0 −x0 + qc,
where: (a, b, c) = (w0, y0, x0)
and (a′, b,′ c′) = ( , , ) .
7.3
AIR
Finally, we also study the performance of Anemoi in the Algebraic Intermediate
Representation (AIR) arithmetization used in STARKs [6]. Here, the relevant
quantities are: the width of the computation state w, the number of computation
steps T, and the maximum degree of the constraints dmax. While there are several
ways to estimate the cost of a given AIR program given the above quantities,
we will consider the total cost to be expressed as w · T · dmax, following [3].
For Rescue–Prime, Griffin and Anemoi, we have w = t, T = nr and dmax =
α. For Poseidon, we have w = t, T = RF + ⌈RP/t⌉and dmax = α.
We then compare the total cost for these four schemes in Table 2. Anemoi
and Griffin are quite similar, and close to Rescue–Prime.
7.4
Native Performance
Outside of proving systems, Anemoi performance can challenge other algebraic
hash functions, especially in Merkle trees thanks to its Jive mode. In particu-
lar in STARKs settings where one can use small cryptographic ﬁelds, Anemoi
oﬀers the best balance in terms of native evaluation and number of constraints.
In Table 4, we illustrate the running time of a 2-to-1 compression method with
AnemoiJive, Rescue–Prime, Poseidon and Griffin over the 64 bits prime ﬁeld
Fp with p = 264 −232 + 1. Each instantiation has a 4 ﬁeld elements (32 bytes)
digest size to ensure 128 bits security8. Rescue–Prime, Poseidon and Griffin
have been evaluated with two instantiations: a regular of width 12 with rate
8, capable of compressing two digests with one permutation using the sponge
construction, and an instantiation of width 8 with rate 4 using Jive as compres-
sion mode. All experiments were performed on an Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-9750H
CPU @ 2.60 GHz. We present average times in microseconds of each experiment
running for 5 s. Standard deviations are negligible. All instantiations have been
implemented in Rust.
In Table 5, we compare the native performance with Rescue–Prime, Posei-
don and Griffin with a state size useful for applications like Merkle tree over
the scalar ﬁeld of BLS12-381. For small state size, the dominant computation for
Anemoi (like Rescue–Prime and Griffin) is x1/d and can be implemented using
an appropriate addition chain. All experiments were performed on an Intel(R)
8 We refer here to original instantiations, in opposition to a common practice in the
industry to tweak parameters (typically the MDS matrix layer). All instantiations
here are original, paper versions for fair comparison.

New Design Techniques
535
Table 4. Native performance comparison of 2-to-1 compression functions for Fp with
p = 264 −232 + 1. We ﬁx s = 128. Times are given in μs. Rescue–Prime is denoted by
RP.
RP-12
RP-8
Poseidon-12
Poseidon-8
Griffin-12
Griffin-8
Anemoi-8
15.67
9.13
5.87
2.69
2.87
2.59
4.21
Core(TM) i7-8565U CPU @ 1.80 GHz. We present average times in microsec-
onds of each experiment running for 2 s. Standard deviations are in the order
of tens of nanoseconds. Our implementation uses C via FFI through an OCaml
binding, but this introduces a negligible overhead.
Table 5. Native performance comparison of a permutation for the scalar ﬁeld of
BLS12 −381. We ﬁx s = 128. Griffin is instantiated with a state size of 3 and
Anemoi, Rescue–Prime and Poseidon with a state size of 2. Times are in μs.
Rescue–Prime Poseidon Griffin Anemoi
206
9.2
74.18
128.29
8
Conclusion
We have made several contributions towards both the theoretical understanding
and the practical use of arithmetization-oriented hash functions. Our main con-
tribution is of course Anemoi, a family of permutations that are eﬃcient across
various arithmetization methods, yielding gains from 10% up to more than 50%
depending on the context, over existing designs. Furthermore, in order to be
able to design its main component, the Flystel structure, we had to ﬁrst iden-
tify the link between arithmetization-orientation and CCZ-equivalence. We hope
that functions such as the Flystel construction as well as similar ones will be
studied by mathematicians as we believe those to be of independent interest.
Finally, we provided a new simple mode, Jiveb, which adds to the growing
list of permutation-based modes of operation providing a b-to-1 compression
function, of particular relevance in Merkle trees. It allows us to further improve
upon the state-of-the-art, so that AnemoiJive requires only 56 Plonk constraints
in total (when 3 wires and 2 custom gates are used), compared to the best
sponge-based instance of Poseidon which requires 98 constraints with 4 wires
(or 110 with 3) and 1 custom gate. With only one custom gate, AnemoiJive
requires 64 constraints for 4 wires (or 86 with 3).

536
C. Bouvier et al.
Recent work by Liu et al. [35] has demonstrated the potential for further
optimizations leveraging our design: by using 4 custom gates they are able to
reduce the cost of a 4-to-1 Jive instance to just over 1 constraint per round (16
constraints for 14 rounds)9. This compares favorably to the highly optimized
and customized version of Poseidon speciﬁed in Mina [38] which performs 2:1
compression using 15 wires and 11 constraints (at 55 rounds, 5 rounds per con-
straint).
Acknowledgements. We thank the reviewers of CRYPTO 2023 for providing insight-
ful comments which helped improve the clarity of this paper. In particular, we would
like to thank the shepherd for their assistance in ﬁnalizing the paper. We are also
grateful to Markulf Kohlweiss, Antoine Rondelet and Duncan Tebbs for proofreading
an earlier draft of this paper, and for providing insightful comments and suggestions.
Additionally, we extend our thanks to Duncan Tebbs for providing an independent esti-
mation of the Flystel circuit cost in terms of R1CS constraints. The work of L´eo Perrin
is supported by the European Research Council (ERC, grant agreement no. 101041545
“ReSCALE”). We thank Tomer Ashur for pointing out a mistake in Fig. 1 in a previous
version of the paper. We also thank Miguel Ambrona and Rapha¨el Toledo for the idea
of the quadratic custom gate and their contribution to the Plonk implementation.
References
1. Polygon Miden. Repository, September 2022. https://github.com/maticnetwork/
miden
2. Albrecht, M., Grassi, L., Rechberger, C., Roy, A., Tiessen, T.: MiMC: eﬃcient
encryption and cryptographic hashing with minimal multiplicative complexity. In:
Cheon, J.H., Takagi, T. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2016, Part I. LNCS, vol. 10031, pp.
191–219. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53887-
6 7
3. Aly, A., Ashur, T., Ben-Sasson, E., Dhooghe, S., Szepieniec, A.: Design of
symmetric-key primitives for advanced cryptographic protocols. IACR Trans.
Symm. Cryptol. 2020(3), 1–45 (2020). https://doi.org/10.13154/tosc.v2020.i3.1-
45
4. Ambrona, M., Schmitt, A.L., Toledo, R.R., Willems, D.: New optimization tech-
niques for PlonK’s arithmetization. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2022/462
(2022). https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/462
5. Beierle, C., et al.: Lightweight AEAD and hashing using the Sparkle permutation
family. IACR Trans. Symm. Cryptol. 2020(S1), 208–261 (2020). https://doi.org/
10.13154/tosc.v2020.iS1.208-261
6. Ben-Sasson, E., Bentov, I., Horesh, Y., Riabzev, M.: Scalable, transparent, and
post-quantum secure computational integrity. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report
2018/046 (2018). https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/046
7. Ben-Sasson, E., et al.: Zerocash: decentralized anonymous payments from bitcoin.
In: 2014 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, pp. 459–474. IEEE Computer
Society Press, May 2014. https://doi.org/10.1109/SP.2014.36
9 Liu et al. originally utilized an earlier version of this work specifying 12 rounds in
this setting.

New Design Techniques
537
8. Ben-Sasson, E., Goldberg, L., Levit, D.: Stark friendly hash - survey and rec-
ommendation. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/948 (2020). https://ia.cr/
2020/948
9. Bernstein, D.J.: The Salsa20 family of stream ciphers. In: Robshaw, M., Billet, O.
(eds.) New Stream Cipher Designs. LNCS, vol. 4986, pp. 84–97. Springer, Heidel-
berg (2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-68351-3 8
10. Bertoni, G., Daemen, J., Peeters, M., Van Assche, G.: Keccak. In: Johansson, T.,
Nguyen, P.Q. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2013. LNCS, vol. 7881, pp. 313–314. Springer,
Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-38348-9 19
11. Bertoni, G., Daemen, J., Peeters, M., Van Assche, G.: Sponge functions. In:
ECRYPT Hash Workshop, vol. 9. Citeseer (2007)
12. Bos, J., Coster, M.: Addition chain heuristics. In: Brassard, G. (ed.) CRYPTO
1989. LNCS, vol. 435, pp. 400–407. Springer, New York (1990). https://doi.org/
10.1007/0-387-34805-0 37
13. Bouvier, C., Briaud, P., Chaidos, P., Perrin, L., Salen, R., Velichkov, V., Willems,
D.: New design techniques for eﬃcient arithmetization-oriented hash functions:
Anemoi permutations and Jive compression mode. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Paper 2022/840 (2022). https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/840
14. Bouvier, C., Briaud, P., Chaidos, P., Perrin, L., Velichkov, V.: Anemoi: exploit-
ing the link between arithmetization-orientation and CCZ-equivalence. Cryptology
ePrint Archive, Report 2022/840 (2022). https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/840
15. Budaghyan, L., Carlet, C., Pott, A.: New classes of almost bent and almost perfect
nonlinear polynomials. IEEE Trans. Inf. Theor. 52(3), 1141–1152 (2006)
16. Canteaut, A., Duval, S., Perrin, L.: A generalisation of Dillon’s APN permutation
with the best known diﬀerential and nonlinear properties for all ﬁelds of size 24k+2.
IEEE Trans. Inf. Theor. 63(11), 7575–7591 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1109/TIT.
2017.2676807
17. Canteaut, A., et al.: Saturnin: a suite of lightweight symmetric algorithms for
post-quantum security. IACR Trans. Symm. Cryptol. 2020(S1), 160–207 (2020).
10.13154/tosc.v2020.iS1.160-207
18. Canteaut, A., Perrin, L.: On CCZ-equivalence, extended-aﬃne equivalence, and
function twisting. Finite Fields Appl. 56, 209–246 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.ﬀa.2018.11.008
19. Carlet, C., Charpin, P., Zinoviev, V.: Codes, bent functions and permutations
suitable for DES-like cryptosystems. Des. Codes Crypt. 15(2), 125–156 (1998)
20. Dobraunig, C., Grassi, L., Guinet, A., Kuijsters, D.: Ciminion: symmetric encryp-
tion based on Toﬀoli-gates over large ﬁnite ﬁelds. In: Canteaut, A., Standaert, F.-X.
(eds.) EUROCRYPT 2021. LNCS, vol. 12697, pp. 3–34. Springer, Cham (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-77886-6 1
21. Duval, S., Leurent, G.: MDS matrices with lightweight circuits. IACR Trans.
Symm. Cryptol. 2018(2), 48–78 (2018). https://doi.org/10.13154/tosc.v2018.i2.
48-78
22. Dworkin, M.: SHA-3 standard: permutation-based hash and extendable-output
functions (2015–08-04 2015). https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.202
23. Faug`ere, J., Gianni, P., Lazard, D., Mora, T.: Eﬃcient computation of zero-
dimensional gr¨obner bases by change of ordering. J. Symbolic Comput. 16(4), 329–
344 (1993). https://doi.org/10.1006/jsco.1993.1051. https://www.sciencedirect.
com/science/article/pii/S0747717183710515
24. Faug´ere,
J.C.:
A
new
eﬃcient
algorithm
for
computing
gr¨obner
bases
(f4).
J.
Pure
Appl.
Algebra
139(1),
61–88
(1999).
https://doi.org/10.

538
C. Bouvier et al.
1016/S0022-4049(99)00005-5. https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0022404999000055
25. Faug`ere, J.C.: A new eﬃcient algorithm for computing gr¨obner bases without
reduction to zero (f5). In: Proceedings of the 2002 International Symposium on
Symbolic and Algebraic Computation, ISSAC 2002, pp. 75–83. Association for
Computing Machinery, New York (2002). https://doi.org/10.1145/780506.780516.
https://doi.org/10.1145/780506.780516
26. Gabizon, A., Williamson, Z.J.: plookup: a simpliﬁed polynomial protocol for lookup
tables. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/315 (2020). https://eprint.iacr.
org/2020/315
27. Goldwasser, S., Micali, S., Rackoﬀ, C.: The knowledge complexity of interactive
proof systems. SIAM J. Comput. 18(1), 186–208 (1989). https://doi.org/10.1137/
0218012
28. Grassi, L., Hao, Y., Rechberger, C., Schofnegger, M., Walch, R., Wang, Q.: A new
Feistel approach meets ﬂuid-SPN: Griﬃn for zero-knowledge applications. Cryp-
tology ePrint Archive, Report 2022/403 (2022). https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/403
29. Grassi, L., Khovratovich, D., L¨uftenegger, R., Rechberger, C., Schofnegger, M.,
Walch, R.: Reinforced concrete: a fast hash function for veriﬁable computation. In:
Proceedings of the 2022 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communi-
cations Security, CCS 2022, pp. 1323–1335. Association for Computing Machinery
(2022). https://doi.org/10.1145/3548606.3560686
30. Grassi, L., Khovratovich, D., Rechberger, C., Roy, A., Schofnegger, M.: Poseidon:
a new hash function for zero-knowledge proof systems. In: Bailey, M., Greenstadt,
R. (eds.) USENIX Security 2021, pp. 519–535. USENIX Association, August 2021
31. Grassi, L., Øygarden, M., Schofnegger, M., Walch, R.: From farfalle to megafono
via Ciminion: the PRF hydra for MPC applications. In: Hazay, C., Stam, M.
(eds.) EUROCRYPT 2023, Part IV. LNCS, vol. 14007, pp. 255–286. Springer,
Heidelberg, April 2023. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-30634-1 9
32. Groth, J.: On the size of pairing-based non-interactive arguments. In: Fischlin, M.,
Coron, J.S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2016, Part II. LNCS, May 2016, vol. 9666, pp.
305–326. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-49896-
5 11
33. Hirose, S.: Sequential hashing with minimum padding. In: NIST Workshop on
Lightweight Cryptography 2016. National Institute of Standards and Technology
(NIST) (2016)
34. Li, Y., Tian, S., Yu, Y., Wang, M.: On the generalization of butterﬂy structure.
IACR Trans. Symm. Cryptol. 2018(1), 160–179 (2018). https://doi.org/10.13154/
tosc.v2018.i1.160-179
35. Liu, J., et al.: An eﬃcient veriﬁable state for zk-EVM and beyond from the Anemoi
hash function. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2022/1487 (2022). https://eprint.
iacr.org/2022/1487
36. Loustaunau, W.: An Introduction to Grobner Bases. American Mathematical Soci-
ety (1994). https://books.google.is/books?id=Caoxi78WaIAC
37. McLoughlin, M.B.: addchain: cryptographic addition chain generation in go.
Repository, October 2021. https://github.com/mmcloughlin/addchain. https://
doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.5622943
38. Meckler, I., Rao, V., Ryan, M., Querol, A., Spadavecchia, J., Wong, D.: Mina book,
kimchi speciﬁcation. https://o1-labs.github.io/proof-systems/specs/kimchi.html#
poseidon

New Design Techniques
539
39. Nyberg, K.: Diﬀerentially uniform mappings for cryptography. In: Helleseth, T.
(ed.) EUROCRYPT 1993. LNCS, vol. 765, pp. 55–64. Springer, Heidelberg (1994).
https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48285-7 6
40. Perrin, L., Udovenko, A., Biryukov, A.: Cryptanalysis of a theorem: decomposing
the only known solution to the big APN problem. In: Robshaw, M., Katz, J. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2016, Part II. LNCS, vol. 9815, pp. 93–122. Springer, Heidelberg (2016).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53008-5 4
41. Szepieniec, A., Ashur, T., Dhooghe, S.: Rescue-prime: a standard speciﬁcation
(SoK). Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/1143 (2020). https://eprint.iacr.
org/2020/1143
42. Szepieniec, A., Lemmens, A., Sauer, J.F., Threadbare, B.: The tip5 hash function
for recursive starks. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2023/107 (2023). https://
eprint.iacr.org/2023/107
43. Zero, P.: Plonky2. Repository, September 2022. https://github.com/mir-protocol/
plonky2

