(Nondeterministic) Hardness vs.
Non-malleability
Marshall Ball1
, Dana Dachman-Soled2(B)
, and Julian Loss3
1 New York University, New York, USA
marshall@cs.nyu.edu
2 University of Maryland, College Park, USA
danadach@umd.edu
3 CISPA Helmholtz Center for Information Security, Saarbr¨ucken, Germany
Abstract. We present the ﬁrst truly explicit constructions of non-
malleable codes against tampering by bounded polynomial size circuits.
These objects imply unproven circuit lower bounds and our construction
is secure provided E requires exponential size nondeterministic circuits,
an assumption from the derandomization literature.
Prior works on NMC for polysize circuits, either required an untam-
perable CRS [Cheraghchi, Guruswami ITCS’14; Faust, Mukherjee, Ven-
turi, Wichs EUROCRYPT’14] or very strong cryptographic assump-
tions [Ball, Dachman-Soled, Kulkarni, Lin, Malkin EUROCRYPT’18;
Dachman-Soled, Komargodski, Pass CRYPTO’21]. Both of works in the
latter category only achieve non-malleability with respect to eﬃcient
distinguishers and, more importantly, utilize cryptographic objects for
which no provably secure instantiations are known outside the random
oracle model. In this sense, none of the prior yields fully explicit codes
from non-heuristic assumptions. Our assumption is not known to imply
the existence of one-way functions, which suggests that cryptography is
unnecessary for non-malleability against this class.
Technically, security is shown by non-deterministically reducing poly-
nomial size tampering to split-state tampering. The technique is gen-
eral enough that it allows us to construct the ﬁrst seedless non-
malleable extractors [Cheraghchi, Guruswami TCC’14] for sources sam-
pled by polynomial size circuits [Trevisan, Vadhan FOCS’00] (resp. rec-
ognized by polynomial size circuits [Shaltiel CC’11]) and tampered by
M. Ball—Part of this work was done while the author was a student at Columbia
University and a postdoc at University of Washington. This material is based upon
work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant #2030859 to the
Computing Research Association for the CIFellows Project. Any opinions, ﬁndings, and
conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s)
and do not necessarily reﬂect the views of the National Science Foundation nor the
Computing Research Association.
D. Dachman-Soled—Supported in part by NSF grants #CNS-1933033, #CNS-1453045
(CAREER), and by ﬁnancial assistance awards 70NANB15H328 and 70NANB19H126
from the U.S. Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology.
J. Loss—Part of this work was done while the author was a postdoc at the University
of Maryland and Carnegie Mellon University.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
Y. Dodis and T. Shrimpton (Eds.): CRYPTO 2022, LNCS 13507, pp. 148–177, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15802-5_6

(Nondeterministic) Hardness vs. Non-malleability
149
polynomial size circuits. Our construction is secure assuming E requires
exponential size Σ4-circuits (resp. Σ3-circuits), this assumption is the
state-of-the-art for extracting randomness from such sources (without
non-malleability).
Several additional results are included in the full version of this paper
[Eprint 2022/070]. First, we observe that non-malleable codes and non-
malleable secret sharing [Goyal, Kumar STOC’18] are essentially equiv-
alent with respect to polynomial size tampering. In more detail, assum-
ing E is hard for exponential size nondeterministic circuits, any eﬃcient
secret sharing scheme can be made non-malleable against polynomial
size circuit tampering.
Second, we observe that the fact that our constructions only achieve
inverse polynomial (statistical) security is inherent. Extending a result
from [Applebaum, Artemenko, Shaltiel, Yang CC’16] we show it is impos-
sible to do better using black-box reductions. However, we extend the
notion of relative error from [Applebaum, Artemenko, Shaltiel, Yang
CC’16] to non-malleable extractors and show that they can be con-
structed from similar assumptions.
Third, we observe that relative-error non-malleable extractors can be
utilized to render a broad class of cryptographic primitives tamper and
leakage resilient, while preserving negligible security guarantees.
1
Introduction
This work focuses on mitigating polynomial size circuit tampering attacks via
constructing two kinds of fundamental objects: non-malleable codes (NMC) and
seedless non-malleable extractors (NME). In the coding setting, non-malleability
(roughly) guarantees that the output of the decoding algorithm on a codeword
is independent of the output of the decoding algorithm on a tampered version
of the codeword. Similarly in the seedless extractor setting, non-malleability
guarantees that the output of the extractor on a sample drawn from a high min-
entropy source remains uniform random, even conditioned on the output of the
extractor on a tampered version of the sample.
A recent thrust of research has focused on constructing explicit (eﬃcient)
NMC and NME for broad and natural classes of tampering. Perhaps the most
natural class of tampering functions, is tampering by polynomial size circuits.
Unfortunately, a simple argument shows that any (seedless) non-malleable code
(resp. extractor) resilient to arbitrary polynomial size circuit tampering cannot
be decoded (resp. evaluated) in polynomial time. The next best thing would
be a non-malleable code (resp. seedless extractor) that can be encoded/decoded
(resp. evaluated) in polynomial time that is resilient to bounded polynomial
size circuit tampering—tampering by circuits of size at most nc where c is a
constant ﬁxed a priori. In this work, we are interested in constructing explicit
(i.e. computable by polynomial time Turing machines) objects that are resilient
to such tampering attacks.
This tampering class has been studied extensively in the non-malleable code
literature and prior work constructing NMC for bounded polynomial size circuit

150
M. Ball et al.
tampering can be collected into two categories, both of which fail to provide
explicit constructions:
Unconditionally Secure Constructions via the Probabilistic Method. [26,38] show
that eﬃciently computable non-malleable codes for bounded polynomial size
circuit tampering exist. These constructions can alternately be cast as explicit
codes in an (untamperable) common reference string (CRS) model, or as codes
with eﬃcient Monte Carlo style constructions.
Computational assumptions are needed for any explicit construction (without
a CRS) since security of the non-malleable code implies circuit lower bounds—
existence of an explicit hard-on-average problem for circuits of size nc1—a ques-
tion that is still wide open in the complexity literature.
Unfortunately even under strong assumptions, it is unclear how to deran-
domize these constructions completely. (See beginning of Sect. 1.4 for further
discussion.)
Computationally Secure Constructions via Strong Cryptographic Assumptions.
[12,28,29] leverage a variety of non-standard cryptographic assumptions to con-
struct non-malleable codes for bounded polynomial size circuit tampering (no
CRS) with computational security guarantees.
While some assumptions are necessary (as mentioned above), these works
utilize very powerful computational assumptions. Most importantly, these works
(among other assumptions2) require the existence of objects that we currently
only know how to provably instantiate with random oracles (e.g. [12] uses P-
certiﬁcates and [28,29] uses keyless multi-collision resistant hash functions).
Consequently, these works only yield explicit constructions of non-malleable
codes under heuristic assumptions.3 Additionally, these works fall short of pro-
viding statistical security guarantees.
In summary, none of the prior constructions are fully explicit.
1 If (E, D) is ϵ-non-malleable code for nc-size tampering, then D is hard-on-average
for nc −O(n) size circuits with respect to the distribution E(U{0,1}), encodings of a
random bit. In particular if there exists a small circuit C such that Pr[C(E(U)) =
D(E(U)) = U] ≥1/2 + ϵ then consider the C′ that on input c outputs a ﬁxed
encoding of 0,c0, if C(c) = 1 and a ﬁxed encoding of 1, c1 otherwise. Then we have
Pr[D(C′(E(U))) = 1 −U] ≥1/2 + ϵ, breaking ϵ-non-malleability.
2 In addition to a variety of subexponentially secure variants of standard cryptographic
assumptions, the work of [28,29] also crucially requires a speciﬁc number-theoretic
assumption (the non-uniform subexponential hardness of the repeated squaring
assumption), while the work of [12] needs the same derandomization assumption
in this work.
3 E.g. [21] suggests possibly instantiating keyless multi-collision resistant hash with
an unstructured hash, such as SHA-2 (extended to arbitrarily large keys), with keys
chosen according to digits of π. Establishing the security of any such candidate is well
beyond our current techniques, as we cannot even base the security of (extended)
SHA-2 with randomly chosen keys to a natural computational problem.

(Nondeterministic) Hardness vs. Non-malleability
151
In this work, we employ an assumption from the derandomization literature
to construct explicit non-malleable codes and seedless non-malleable extractors
resilient to bounded polynomial tampering. Our non-malleable codes in particu-
lar are secure under a hardness conjecture introduced in the context of derandom-
izing AM: there is a language that can be computed in exponential deterministic
time that requires exponential size nondeterministic circuits.
In Sect. 1.1, we describe the hardness assumptions we use to construct our
codes and extractors. In Sect. 1.2, we discuss the main results of this work,
and additional results included in the full version of our paper [16]. Finally in
Sect. 1.4, we illustrate our primary technique through a simple yet illuminating
example and describe how the ideas can be extended to prove our main results.
1.1
Hardness Assumptions for Nondeterministic and Σi-Circuits
Deﬁnition 1.1 (Nondeterministic Circuit). A nondeterministic circuit C is a
circuit with “non-deterministic” inputs, in addition to the usual inputs. We say C
evaluates to 1 on x iﬀthere exists an assignment, w, to the non-deterministic input
wires such that the circuit, evaluated deterministically on input (x, w) outputs 1.
Assumption 1 (E Requires Exponential Size Nondeterministic Circuits).
There is a language L ∈E = DTIME(2O(n)) and a constant γ s.t. for suﬃ-
ciently large n nondeterministic circuits of size 2γn fail to decide L on inputs of
length n.
Informally, the above assumption says that non-uniformity and nondeter-
minism do not always imply signiﬁcant speed-ups of uniform deterministic com-
putations. For some of the results in this work, we require assumptions that
hold even for (non-deterministic) NP circuits or Σi circuits. Before we state the
assumption, we provide a formal deﬁnition of these objects.
Deﬁnition 1.2. An oracle circuit C(·) is a circuit which in addition to the stan-
dard gates uses an additional gate (which may have large fan in). When instanti-
ated with a speciﬁc boolean function A, CA is the circuit in which the additional
gate is A. Given a boolean function A(x), an A-circuit is a circuit that is allowed
to use A gates (in addition to the standard gates). An NP-circuit is a SAT-circuit
(where SAT is the satisﬁability function) a Σi-circuit is an A-circuit where A is
the canonical ΣP
i -complete language. We take the size of a circuit to be the total
number of wires and gates.4
We now state the corresponding set of assumptions:
Assumption 2 (E Requires Exponential Size NP (resp. Σi) Circuits). There is
a language L ∈E = DTIME(2O(n)) and a constant γ such that for suﬃciently
large n, NP (resp. Σi) circuits of size 2γn fail to compute the characteristic
function of L on inputs of length n.
4 Note that an NP-circuit is diﬀerent than a nondeterministic circuit. The former is a
nonuniform analogue of PNP (which contains coNP) while the latter is an analogue
of NP.

152
M. Ball et al.
Hardness assumptions against nondeterministic/NP/Σi circuits appear in
the literature in various contexts of complexity theory and derandomiza-
tion [19,32,39,41,45,51,59,61–64]. As noted in [7], such assumptions can be seen
as the nonuniform and scaled-up versions of assumptions of the form EXP ̸= NP
or EXP ̸= ΣP
2 . While very strong, falsiﬁcation of one of these assumptions would
yield surprising implications on the relationship between standard complexity
classes, thus creating a win-win situation: Either the construction based on these
assumptions is secure, or a breakthrough result has been achieved that changes
our current understanding of the power of nonuniformity and nondeterminism.
Further, since assumptions of the above type on the strength of E are worst-case
assumptions, we can directly instantiate constructions based on these assump-
tions with any E-complete problem.
Finally, we highlight that, so far as we know, this assumption is orthogonal
to standard cryptographic assumptions such as one-way functions and, conse-
quently, may hold even if cryptography does not exist.
We summarize the main results of this paper in Sect. 1.2, and then discuss
additional results contained in the full version [16] in Sect. 1.3. Brieﬂy, included
in this work are new constructions of non-malleable codes (Sect. 1.2) and non-
malleable extractors. Additional results contained in the full version include
barriers to achieving negligible security guarantees, circumventing these barriers
in a manner that has applications to tamper and leakage resilient cryptography
(with negligible security guarantees), and an equivalence between non-malleable
codes and non-malleable secret sharing in the context of polynomial size circuit
tampering.
1.2
Our Results–Included in This Work
Non-malleable Codes. Our results are as follows:
Theorem 1.3 (Informal). If E requires exponential size nondeterministic cir-
cuits, then for every constant c, and for suﬃciently large k, there is an explicit,
eﬃcient, n−c-secure non-malleable code for k-bit messages, with codeword length
n = poly(k), resilient to tampering by nc-size circuits.
The formal statement and proof of this theorem can be found in Sect. 3.
We construct our codes by “fooling” non-malleable codes for split-state tam-
pering (with special properties).
Split-state tampering functions may manipulate the left and right halves of
a codeword arbitrarily, but independently (i.e. functions such that (cL, cR) →
(fL(cL), fR(cR)) for some fL, fR). Leakage-resilient split-state tampering allows
each tampered codeword half to depend on bounded leakage from the opposite
codeword half. In addition to a split-state NMC, we also use a pseudorandom
generator (PRG) for nondeterministic circuits, where c′ > c is a constant. In
particular, we require that the PRG, G, is secure even when given the seed
(seed extending), i.e. no nondeterministic circuit of bounded polynomial size
can distinguish G(s) from uniform and s is a preﬁx of G(s). The existence of
such PRGs follows from Assumption 2 [7,46,50,51,61,62].

(Nondeterministic) Hardness vs. Non-malleability
153
Given a (leakage-resilient) split-state non-malleable code, with necessary
properties and a seed-extending pseudorandom PRG for nondeterministic cir-
cuits, G, we encode a message x by sampling the following:
(s, cR) such that (G(s), cR)is a split-state encoding of x.
While we refer the reader to the technical overview (Sect. 1.4) for a more
detailed sketch, we provide here some intuition for security:
1. We assume towards contradiction that (s, cR) is malleable and ﬁx the corre-
sponding poly-size tampering function g which is not split-state and violates
non-malleability.
2. We transform g into a split-state tampering function fL, fR on (cL, cR), where
(1) fL is unbounded, relies on |s| bits of leakage from cR and returns some
c′
L, (2) fR is eﬃcient, relies on |s| bits of leakage from cL and returns c′
R.
Crucially, split-state tampering function (fL, fR) is guaranteed to break non-
malleability when cL = (s||y) = G(s).
3. Since (cL, cR) is a leakage-resilient split-state non-malleable code when cL is
uniform random, then when cL is random (as opposed to in the construc-
tion where codewords are sampled as (G(s), cR)), every tampering function
(f ′
L, fR) fails to break non-malleability, even when f ′
L is unbounded and
chooses its output c′
L in the “optimal” way.
4. We construct an Arthur-Merlin protocol (with bounded poly-size Arthur),
that distinguishes between input cL being random or pseudorandom. Such
a protocol can then be transformed into a non-deterministic polynomial
bounded circuit (this follows from classical results: IP[O(1)] ⊆AM ⊆
NP/poly [7–9,42]).
5. Intuitively, Arthur can eﬃciently compute all the values needed to simu-
late the tampering experiment except for c′
L, which is obtained from Merlin.
Speciﬁcally, on input cL, Arthur samples cR, and computes c′
R = fR(cR),
as well as the leakage on cR. Arthur sends cL and the leakage on cR to
Merlin who responds with c′
L. If cL is pseudorandom, then an honest Mer-
lin will return c′
L = fL(cL), and, with Merlin’s help, Arthur can check that
non-malleability is violated with this c′
L. If cL is random, then despite any
response c′
L = f ′
L(cL) from Merlin, non-malleability will not be violated, and
a dishonest Merlin cannot convince Arthur otherwise.
Non-malleable Extractors. We next shift our focus to the case of seedless
non-malleable extractors for computational sources with suﬃcient min-entropy5
and for tampering with bounded polynomial size circuits. We consider two types
of computational sources:
5 Min-entropy measures the unpredictability of a random variable. In particular, X
has min-entropy k if ∀x in the support of X, Pr[X = x] ≤2−k.

154
M. Ball et al.
Samplable Sources: These are distributions that can be generated by bounded
polynomial size circuits that are given uniform random coins as input. Speciﬁ-
cally, the source distribution X is equivalent to C(Ur), the distribution generated
by some circuit C of size nc on input uniform randomness of length r bits.
Extracting from this class of sources was ﬁrst considered by Trevisan and
Vadhan [64]. In 1986, Levin [52] argued that this class reasonably captures
sources arising in nature.6
A non-malleable extractor for this class yields non-malleable cryptography
resilient to tampering attacks on the very entropy sources used for key genera-
tion.
As an alternate motivation, one can consider a natural, albeit restricted,
online extraction setting: imagine a natural source over a time interval as
(X1, X2) where X1 is eﬃciently (and randomly) transformed to X2 with the
promise that X1 and X2 have entropy independent of the other. Then any
non-malleable extractor for samplable sources with respect to polynomial size
tampering, Ext, can extract from such as source online, i.e. Ext(X1), Ext(X2) is
approximately uniform.7
Recognizable Sources: These are uniform distributions over the set of inputs
accepted by some polynomial sized circuit. Speciﬁcally, the source distribution
X is uniform over {x : C(x) = 1}, where C is a circuit of size nc.
Extracting from this class of sources was ﬁrst considered by Shaltiel [60] in
the context of derandomization. This class corresponds with sources about which
some eﬃciently computable leakage is known.
As we will see, non-malleable extractors for recognizable sources and polyno-
mial size tampering provide a natural, generic means constructing non-malleable,
leakage-resilient cryptography.
Theorem 1.4 (Informal). If E requires exponential size Σ4-circuits, then for
every constant c, there is an explicit n−c-secure seedless non-malleable extractor
for sources X ∈{0, 1}n samplable by nc size circuits with linear min-entropy,
that outputs Ω( n log log(n)
log(n)
) bits and is resilient to tampering by nc-size circuits.
The formal statement and proof are left to the full version [16]. A detailed
construction and proof sketch for a weaker type of non-malleable extractor can
be found in the technical overview (see Sect. 1.4). The construction and proof
sketch in the technical overview contain the main ideas needed for the full result.
Similarly to our non-malleable codes, we construct our non-malleable extrac-
tors by “fooling” (seedless) two-source non-malleable extractors.
Roughly, a two-source non-malleable extractor, 2NMExt, can extract ran-
domness from two-independent sources (with suﬃcient min-entropy) even after
6 Sources sampled by polynomial size quantum circuits seem a more appropriate model
for physical sources of randomness. Nonetheless, (classical) samplable sources are an
interesting and important subclass.
7 Note that with a random seed it is easy to extract from say X1 conditioned on X2.

(Nondeterministic) Hardness vs. Non-malleability
155
seeing the output of the extractor invoked on input generated by independently
(and arbitrarily) tampering each source.
Our construction of a non-malleable extractor for samplable sources and
polynomial size tampering follows. Let Extsamp be an extractor for samplable
sources, 2NMExt an (eﬃcient) two-source non-malleable extractor, and G a PRG
for nondeterministic NP-circuits, then given a samplable source X. The idea is
to extract a seed with the samplable extractor and then use the seed to “fool”
the two-source non-malleable extractor in a similar manner to the non-malleable
code construction above.
– Extract a seed s = Extsamp(X).
– Output 2NMExt(G(s), X).
The high-level idea of the proof is similar to the outline for the non-
malleable code proof. An added diﬃculty here over our non-malleable code anal-
ysis (responsible for the stronger assumption on the PRG) is that Arthur again
receives either pseudorandom (s||y) = G(s) or random (s||y) as input, but now
must sample a source, X, that is consistent with its input, i.e. sample X such
that Extsamp(X) = s. Arthur can do this with a bounded poly-size circuit, given
an added level of non-determinism.
The above result is obtained by ﬁrst constructing “relaxed” seedless non-
malleable extractors for nc′ samplable sources and nc tampering (by “relaxed” we
mean restricting the tampering function to have no ﬁxed points), and then pre-
senting a generic transformation from relaxed seedless non-malleable extractors
for nc′ samplable sources and nc tampering to seedless non-malleable extractors
for nc samplable sources and nc tampering.
We obtain a similar result for recognizable sources:
Theorem 1.5 (Informal). If E requires exponential size Σ3-circuits, then for
every constant c, there is an explicit n−c-secure seedless non-malleable extractor
for sources X ∈{0, 1}n recognizable by nc size circuits with linear min-entropy,
that outputs Ω( n log log(n)
log(n)
) bits and is resilient to tampering by nc-size circuits.
The formal statement and proof are left to the full version [16]. We note that the
assumption that E requires exponential size Σ4-circuits (resp. E requires expo-
nential size Σ3-circuits) is inherited from the seedless extractor for samplable
(resp. recognizable) sources of [7] that is used as a building block in our con-
struction. Assuming the existence of a seedless extractor for samplable (resp. rec-
ognizable) sources, our construction requires only the weaker assumption that E
requires exponential size nondeterministic NP circuits.
Before presenting a technical overview of the main ideas of our constructions,
we discuss the relationship between our positive results and known negative
results from the literature.
On the Feasibility of Explicit Codes from Minimal Assumptions. It is known that
explicit non-malleable codes for circuits of size O(nc) imply explicit languages

156
M. Ball et al.
that are hard on average for circuits of size O(nc).8 Due to the limitations in
current techniques for proving unconditional circuit lower bounds, it is therefore
unlikely to construct explicit codes for such a tampering class, unconditionally.
Yet, one might still hope to construct codes by assuming minimal circuit lower
bounds (i.e. assuming there exists a language computable in time nd, for some
d > c, that is hard on average for O(nc)-size circuits). Unfortunately, Ball et
al. [15] showed a barrier to proving such a theorem. In particular, they ruled
out constructions of non-malleable codes where the security proof –which is a
reduction from breaking the above assumption to breaking the non-malleable
code— makes black box usage of the tampering adversary. This implies that
either radically diﬀerent proof approaches are necessary (that make use of non-
black box methods) or stronger assumptions (beyond the minimal one discussed
above) are needed.
Our present result skirts this lower bound by taking the second approach of
stronger assumptions. Speciﬁcally, the techniques of [15] rule out non-black box
reductions when the constructed non-malleable code is resilient against some
class C and the underlying assumption is hard for the same class C of circuits. In
this work, our tampering class consists of small deterministic circuits, but our
assumption is stronger and requires hardness for small nondeterministic circuits.
1.3
Our Results–Included in the Full Version [16]
On the Necessity of 1/poly-indistinguishability. One could hope to construct non-
malleable extractors and non-malleable codes with negligible error from the types
of assumptions we consider in this work–i.e. that E requires exponential size Σi-
circuits. Unfortunately, for the case of non-malleable extractors for samplable
or recognizable distributions, barriers to achieving such a result were already
shown in the work of Applebaum et al. [7]. Speciﬁcally, they rule out certain
types of black-box reductions from functions that are (1/2 + δ)-hard (where δ is
a small constant) for nd-size Σi-circuits to extractors for distributions that are
samplable or recognizable by size nc circuits (where c ≤d are constants), and
that achieve negligible error. As a consequence, their results rule out reductions
from the assumption that E requires exponential size Σi-circuits. In the full
version [16], we extend the results of Applebaum et al. [7] to rule out black-box
reductions from any function f that is (1/2 + δ)-hard for nd-size Σi-circuits to
eﬃcient, 1-bit non-malleable codes resilient to tampering by by size nc circuits
(where c ≤d are constants), and that achieve negligible error.9 Since f as above
can be constructed from the scaled down and padded characteristic function of
some (average case hard) language in E, it means that if one can compute the
characteristic function of an E-complete language on all inputs (i.e. break the
8 In particular, the Decode function is hard with respect to the distribution formed
by encoding a random bit. If this wasn’t the case, one could attack by computing
the encoded value and outputting a ﬁxed encoding of the opposite bit.
9 Note that ruling out reductions to 1-bit non-malleable codes also rules out reductions
to k-bit non-malleable codes.

(Nondeterministic) Hardness vs. Non-malleability
157
worst-case hardness of an E-complete language), then one can compute f on
average (with probability 1/2 + δ). Thus, our results also rule out reductions
from the assumption that E is (worst-case) hard for exponential size Σi-circuits.
We note that there are diﬀerences in the class of reductions ruled out by
our result and the corresponding results of Applebaum et al. [7]: Our result
allows function-speciﬁc and non-security parameter-preserving reductions. On
the other hand, our results require the assumption that there is a function that
is hard for nd-size Σi-circuits and rule out only eﬃcient constructions of non-
malleable codes (where encode/decode are polynomial time), while the results of
Applebaum et al. [7] are unconditional and rule out even ineﬃcient constructions.
Please see the full version for further discussion.
Taken together, the results of Applebaum et al. [7] together with our new
results for non-malleable codes in the full version [16], indicate that signiﬁcantly
new proof techniques are necessary to construct non-malleable extractors and
non-malleable codes with negligible error from the assumption that E requires
exponential size Σi-circuits.
Partially Bypassing the Impossibility via “Relative Error.” The above results
indicate that it is inherently diﬃcult to construct non-malleable extractors with
negligible error under non-deterministic reductions, where error is measured in
terms of statistical distance. Another measure of closeness between distributions
is known as relative error. Speciﬁcally, relative error α between a pair of distri-
butions D1, D2 requires that for every element x in the support of D1,
(1 −α)PrD2[x] ≤PrD1[x] ≤(1 + α)PrD2[x].
In this case, even if α is non-negligible, the above guarantee is still useful for
achieving negligible security.
Applebaum et al. [7] introduced a notion of relative-error extractors, observ-
ing that if the output of the extractor is 1/poly-close to uniform with relative
error, then every event occurs w.r.t. the output distribution with probability at
most (1 + 1/poly) times the probability it occurs w.r.t. the uniform distribution.
In particular, events that are negligible under the uniform distributions can-
not become noticeable under the distribution outputted by the extractor. This
was then suﬃcient for obtaining leakage resilient cryptosystems with negligible
security guarantees.
In this work, we consider applying the relative error notion to the setting of
seedless, non-malleable extractors. Our notion diﬀers in two ways: First, we need
to extend the notion to the case where neither the real nor simulated distribution
is uniform. This is because the guarantee of the non-malleable extractor holds
with respect to a pair of output values (a, b), where a should be uniform random,
but b can come from an arbitrary distribution. Second, due to the above, we
slightly relax the notion and incorporate a small additive term, β ≪2−2m,
where m is the output length of the extractor.
We now parametrize the relative extractor notion by α and β and require that
the probability of any untampered/tampered output pair (a, b) under the real

158
M. Ball et al.
distribution is at most (1+α)pI(a, b)+β, where pI(a, b) denotes the probability
of output pair (a, b) under the ideal distribution.
Applications to Leakage and Tamper Resilience with Negligible Security. A non-
malleable extractor E : {0, 1}n →{0, 1}m with relative error ( α, β) for a class
of recognizable sources X and tampering family T , can be used to obtain leak-
age and tamper resilient cryptosystems with negligible security guarantees. To
achieve this, one can store a uniformly random R on a device and use a = E(R)
as the secret key for a symmetric key cryptosystem Π. The attacker is allowed
(1) leakage on R with leakage function ℓfrom the class of bounded polynomial-
size circuits with bounded output length;10 (2) tampering on R with tampering
function t from the class of bounded polynomial-size circuits; (3) oracle access to
both Πa, and Πb, where b = E(t(R)) is the tampered version of the key (Πa, Πb
denote ﬁxing the secret key of Π to a or b respectively). We show that in several
cases, we can still guarantee the negligible security of the cryptosystem with
respect to the original key a, despite this stronger adversarial model.
We consider two types of applications. First, for cryptosystems Π that have
an associated unpredictability game (such as MAC’s), negligible security in the
leakage and tampering game described above can be proved from the properties
of the relative error non-malleable extractor, assuming the original cryptosys-
tem Π satisﬁes the standard security notion. Second, for cryptosystems Π that
have an associated indistinguishability game (such as CPA secure symmetric key
encryption), negligible security in the leakage and tampering game described
above can be proved in the case that the original cryptosystem Π satisﬁes a
type of “square-security” notion (see for example [18,31], for a discussion of the
square-security notion). We note that there are natural examples of cryptosys-
tems that achieve this required notion. For example CPA-secure symmetric key
encryption satisﬁes the “square-security” notion needed for our result.
We emphasize that, for both the unpredictability and indistinguishability
applications discussed above, by using relative error non-malleable extractors,
we are able to prove that the attacker’s advantage is negligible in the leakage
and tampering game.
Non-malleable Secret Sharing and Non-malleable Codes are Equivalent Under
Plysize Circuit Tampering. Secret sharing schemes allow a user with a secret to
send “shares” to a set of parties such that any “authorized” subset of parties
can recover the secret from their collective shares, but “unauthorized” subsets of
parties learn nothing about the secret from their collective shares. This relatively
simple object, about which many foundational questions remain unanswered, is
a critical tool in modern cryptography.
In 2018, Goyal and Kumar [43] introduced the notion of non-malleable secret
sharing. To understand what it means for a secret sharing scheme to be non-
malleable, consider the following experiment: share a secret, jointly tamper
all the shares, reconstruct the tampered shares of some authorized subset of
10 In fact, the precise leakage class we can handle is slightly more broad.

(Nondeterministic) Hardness vs. Non-malleability
159
parties. Loosely, a secret sharing scheme is non-malleable if the outcome of this
experiment returns the original secret or some value independent of the original
secret (and which case occurs should also be independent of the original secret).
In the full version [16], we construct non-malleable secret sharing schemes
that are resilient to joint tampering of the shares by polynomial size circuits for
a wide variety of access structures, any access structure for which an explicit
(eﬃciently computable) secret sharing scheme exists. In fact, we observe that
non-malleable secret sharing and non-malleable codes for polynomial size cir-
cuit tampering are eﬀectively equivalent. This is a testament to the richness of
this tampering class. More precisely, to construct such a non-malleable secret
sharing scheme from a non-malleable code, one simply encodes the secret with
the non-malleable code and shares the codeword according to a polysize com-
putable secret sharing scheme (to reconstruct the secret, simply reconstruct the
codeword and decode). This is safe because composing sharing, tampering, and
reconstructing can in turn be performed by a polynomial size circuit, because the
secret sharing scheme is eﬃcient. (The reverse direction is immediate.) We go on
to construct adaptive non-malleable secret sharing schemes resilient to polyno-
mial size circuit tampering for a wide variety of access structures, including any
access structure admitting an eﬃcient linear secret sharing scheme. In adaptive
non-malleable secret sharing, the tampering function can be chosen arbitrarily
as a function of any unauthorized set of shares.
1.4
Technical Overview
We demonstrate our techniques by presenting a construction and proofsketch
for a simpliﬁed case: constructing “relaxed” non-malleable extractors (where
the tampering function is guaranteed to have no ﬁxed points) for uniformly
random sources and bounded polynomial tampering (i.e. size nc circuits for some
constant c). This simpliﬁed case will already provides most of the key ideas of our
main results. We conclude the section by discussing how to extend this example
and its analysis to achieve our main results.
A Simple Example: (Relaxed) Seedless Non-malleable “Extractor” for
Uniform Sources. First, recall that a relaxed seedless non-malleable extractor
for sources of the form (S, X) is a deterministic function NMExt such that for
any nc size circuit, C without ﬁxed points we have
(NMExt(S, X), NMExt(C(S, X))) ≈(U, NMExt(C(S, X))).
We reiterate that here we simplify by assuming that the source (S, X) is uniform
random. While this trivializes the task of randomness extraction, the question
of non-malleable extraction remains interesting for such sources, e.g. it already
implies the existence of non-malleable codes for 1-bit messages.11
Before describing our construction, we give a brief overview of the necessary
building blocks:
11 To see this, recall the characterization of non-malleability for a single bit (see pre-
vious footnote ). Note that for any tampering function f of size nc, one can deﬁne

160
M. Ball et al.
Strong Relaxed Two-Source Non-malleable Extractor. Loosely speaking, a func-
tion NMExt : {0, 1}n × {0, 1}n →{0, 1}m is a relaxed two-source non-malleable
extractor for sources (X, Y ) if for every split-state tampering function (τL, τR)
for which either τL or τR has no ﬁxed points, we have
(NMExt(X, Y ), NMExt(τL(X), τR(Y )))
s≈(Um, NMExt(τL(X), τR(Y ))).
We say NMExt is a strong two-source non-malleable extractor for no-ﬁxed points
tampering if we further have that
(X, NMExt(X, Y ), NMExt(τL(X), τR(Y )))
s≈(X, Um, NMExt(τL(X), τR(Y ))).
Two
source
non-malleable
extractors
are
well-studied
in
the
literature
with the current state-of-the-art being extractors for sources (X, Y )
∈
{0, 1}n × {0, 1}n with min-entropy (1 −γ)n for some constant γ and error
2−Ω(n log log(n)/ log(n)) [56]. Further, [54] showed that every two source non-
malleable extractor is also a strong two source non-malleable extractor for
sources with some loss in parameters.
Recalling the notion of a nondeterministic circuit from the introduction, we
now introduce a type of pseudorandom generator (PRG) with security against
non-deterministic circuits of bounded polynomial size.
Seed-Extending Pseudorandom Generators. A pseudorandom generator (PRG)
for nondeterministic circuits of size nd, G : {0, 1}ℓ→{0, 1}n, allows one to
extend a short random seed into a long string that is indistinguishable from
random to nondeterministic circuits of size nd (for constant d). More precisely,
for every nondeterministic circuit, C, of size at most nd,
| Pr[C(G(Uℓ)) = 1] −Pr[C(Un) = 1]| ≤1
nd ,
where Um denotes a random variable uniformly distributed over {0, 1}m.
The above type of PRG are diﬀerent from cryptographic PRG’s since the
computation time of the PRG is larger than the size of the adversary. These
PRG’s are secure against nondeterministic circuits of size nd, but take larger
polynomial time to compute. Cryptographic PRG’s are computable in some
ﬁxed polynomial time but secure against adversaries of arbitrary polynomial
size. In the case of seed-extending pseudorandom generators, this gap between
honest and adversarial computational resources allows for unintuitive behavior,
where the seed of the PRG itself is included as part of the output and the output
remains pseudorandom, which is impossible in the cryptographic case.
a function f ′ of size nc + O(n) that has no ﬁxed points and behaves identically
to f on every x that is not a ﬁxed point of f. Because, Pr[D(f(E(b) = 1 −b] ≤
Pr[D(f ′(E(b)) = 1 −b] we can deduce that E, D is non-malleable with respect to
circuits of size nc −O(n), where D is NMExt and E simply performs rejection sam-
pling to ﬁnd a random (s, x) such that NMExt(s, x) = b. Note that the resulting
non-malleable code will not have perfect correctness because the rejection sampling
procedure might fail.

(Nondeterministic) Hardness vs. Non-malleability
161
Indeed, we are interested in exactly such PRGs that remain secure even when
given the seed, referred to as “seed-extending” PRGs.12 A PRG, G : {0, 1}ℓ→
{0, 1}n, is said to be seed-extending if G(s) = (s, G′(s)) (where G′ is the function
corresponding to the n −ℓbit suﬃx). This particular name was introduced by
Kinne et al. in the context of derandomizing randomized algorithms on ran-
dom inputs. [50,53] They observed that PRG constructions based on Nisan
and Wigderson’s seminal construction [50] can be made seed-extending. Conse-
quently, many constructions of PRGs for nondeterministic circuits can be made
seed extending.
Theorem 1.6 ([7,46,50,51,61,62]). If E requires exponential size nondetermin-
istic circuits, then for every constant c > 1 there exists a constant α > 1 such
that for every suﬃciently large n, and every ℓsuch that α log n ≤ℓ≤n there
is a seed-extending PRG, G : {0, 1}ℓ→{0, 1}n, for nondeterministic circuits of
size nc.
Construction of a Seedless Relaxed Non-malleable Extractor. Our construction
of a (relaxed) seedless non-malleable extractor for uniform sources and nc-size
circuit tampering is exceedingly simple. Let 2NMExt be a relaxed, two-source
non-malleable extractor (NME). Our seedless relaxed non-malleable extractor,
NMExt, is deﬁned as
NMExt : (s, x) →2NMExt(G(s), x)
where G is a seed-extending PRG for nondeterministic circuits of size nd for
some constant d > c.
Sketch of the Security Proof. To prove security of the construction, we need to
show that the existence of a size nc tampering function with no ﬁxed points
that breaks the security of the NME, implies the existence of a nondeterministic
circuit of size nd that distinguishes outputs of G from random.
Suppose for the sake of contradiction that there exists a successful tampering
function, τ : (s, x) →(˜s, ˜x) of circuit size nc with no ﬁxed points. We will deﬁne
f to denote the function that computes (s, x) →˜x according to τ, and g to
denote the function that computes (s, x) →˜s according to τ. In other words,
τ(s, x) = (g(s, x), f(s, x)) and moreover, for each (s, x) either g(s, x) ̸= s or
f(s, x) ̸= x. Note that there is no split-state assumption on the tampering
function τ(s, x) = (g(s, x), f(s, x)), as both f and g can depend on the entire
input (s, x). Now, our assumption on τ (and hence f, g) breaking the NME can
be restated as
Δ

(2NMExt(G(S), X), 2NMExt(G(g(S, X)), f(S, X)));
(Um, 2NMExt(G(g(S, X)), f(S, X)))

≥ϵ.
(1)
12 We refer the reader to [51] for further discussion.

162
M. Ball et al.
We will use this assumption to “distinguish” the seed-extending PRG, G,
from the uniform distribution via a private constant round interactive proof
(i.e. Arthur Merlin protocol). In particular, (private-coin) Arthur will accept
pseudorandom inputs (completeness) with polynomially higher probability than
he accepts random inputs, regardless of how Merlin behaves (soundness). Then,
we can deduce from standard transformations (IP[k] ⊆AM ⊆NP/poly [9,42])
that a small non-deterministic distinguisher exists.13
Looking ahead (1) which asserts the malleability of the constructed extractor
when provided pseudorandom inputs will enable us to prove the protocol is com-
plete, i.e. Arthur accepts pseudorandom inputs with high probability. Soundness,
i.e. Arthur rejects random inputs with high probability, will ultimately follow
from security of the 2-source non-malleable extractor. Furthermore, what ulti-
mately will enable our soundness argument to go through is the fact that to
achieve completeness Arthur communicates very little about random variable X
and thus X remains entropic, even after conditioning on this communication.
We use a standard private coin technique, where Arthur forces Merlin to guess
between two samplable distributions [40] to handle the fact that our extractor
has relatively long outputs (even though our hardness assumption only holds for
boolean distinguishers in a relatively high error regime).
Arthur Merlin Protocol. We next describe the interactive proof for distinguish-
ing G from uniformly random bits. Both Arthur and Merlin receive (s, y)
as input. Our protocol aims to accept strings from G(Uℓ) when Merlin plays
according to below (completeness) and reject strings from Un regardless of the
strategy Merlin utilizes (soundness). Because we can amplify by repetition, it
suﬃces for there to be small gap between the two.
Arthur Sample x ←Un. Send Merlin ˜s = g(s, x).
Merlin If (s, y) = G(s), respond ˜y such that (˜s, ˜y) = G(˜s). Otherwise, respond
arbitrary ˜y.
Arthur Sample a random coin b ←U and set ˜z = 2NMExt((˜s, ˜y), ˜x) where
˜x = f(s, x).
– If b = 0: Sample z ←Um and send z, ˜z.
– Else if b = 1: Sample z ←2NMExt((s, y), x) and send z, ˜z.
Merlin Guess Arthur’s bit by guessing whether (z, ˜z) was drawn from the ﬁrst
or second distribution.
Arthur Accept if b = b′, and reject otherwise.
Completeness: Accepting Pseudorandom Inputs.
We ﬁrst argue that Arthur,
when playing with Merlin as speciﬁed above, accepts pseudorandom inputs, drawn
from G(S), with probability signiﬁcantly greater than 1/2. Indeed, if the protocol
13 In actuality, this is too naive because these transformations only hold for worst-case
notions of soundness and completeness. Thus in the body, we will instead show that
there exists a constant round interactive proof for a promise problem (ΠY , ΠN) such
that ΠY is dense in the pseudorandom distribution and ΠN is dense in the uniform
distribution, and not vice-versa.

(Nondeterministic) Hardness vs. Non-malleability
163
above is given inputs from G(S) (i.e. legitimate outputs of G), then if Arthur
chooses b = 1, his ﬁnal message is sampled as:
(z, ˜z) ∼(2NMExt(G(S), X), 2NMExt(G(g(S, X)), f(S, X))).
On the other hand, if b = 0, Arthur’s ﬁnal message is sampled according to:
(z, ˜z) ∼(Um, 2NMExt(G(g(S, X)), f(S, X))).
By our malleability assumption towards contradiction (1), these two distribu-
tions are ϵ-far from each other.
Soundness: Rejecting Random Inputs. We must now show that when given uni-
formly random inputs, Arthur accepts with signiﬁcantly lower probability than
the case above. This case is harder than the previous case, since here Merlin can
behave arbitrarily, and we must show that Arthur still rejects w.h.p.
At a high-level, we get around this by observing that although Merlin is com-
putationally unbounded, the fact that the information sent to him by Arthur is
limited, essentially constrains Merlin to split-state strategies. Speciﬁcally, let
G∗: (s, y, ˜s) →˜y be the function that given Merlin’s input (s, y) and the tran-
script thus far, outputs Merlin’s ﬁrst message. Conditioned on s, ˜s, we have that
G∗(s, y, ˜s) = ˜y is independent of x (as is ˜s). And similarly, ˜x = f(s, x) is inde-
pendent of (s, y). So conditioned on s, ˜s we can deﬁne a split-state tampering
function as follows:
– τ ˜s
L : (s, y) →(˜s, ˜y) where ˜y = G∗(s, y, ˜s)
– τ s
R : x →˜x where ˜x = f(s, x)
Note that because τ has no ﬁxed points, either f(s, x) ̸= x or g(s, x) ̸= s. So,
either τ ˜s
L or τ s
R contains no ﬁxed points. Thus, conditioned on s, ˜s and Arthur’s
coin b = 0, Merlin’s view is simply
T s,˜s
0
≡

(s, y), U, 2NMExt(τ ˜s
L(s, y), τ s
R(x))

.
On the other hand, if Arthur’s coin is b = 1, Merlin’s view is
T s,˜s
1
≡

(s, y), 2NMExt((s, y), x), 2NMExt(τ ˜s
L(s, y), τ s
R(x))

.
Recall that the input (s, y) (left source) and x (right source) are both uniform.
Thus, after conditioning on the transcript (or equivalently s, ˜s) nearly all the
entropy remains in each source (in fact, we can take s, ˜s short enough that the
entropy deﬁciency is just O(log(n))). Then because 2NMExt is a strong two-
source non-malleable extractor for sources with linear min-entropy, it follows
from the security property that T s,˜s
0
s≈T s,˜s
1 .
Obtaining Our Main Results. We extend the above technique in several ways:

164
M. Ball et al.
Non-malleable Extractors for Samplable/Recognizable Sources. First, we com-
bine the above construction with a seedless extractor for polynomially samplable
(resp. recognizable) sources [7,64] to obtain a relaxed seedless non-malleable
extractor for polynomially samplable (resp. recognizable) sources and polynomi-
ally bounded tampering.
In brief, we use a seedless extractor to sample the uniform seed, s, for the
PRG in the simple construction above. The main diﬀerence relative to the proof
above, is that now Arthur must sample the samplable/recognizable source to
be consistent with the pseudorandom challenge, i.e. conditioned on the seedless
extractor outputting s. This is resolved in both cases by equipping Arthur with
an NP-oracle, so he can eﬃciently sample random satisfying assignments to small
circuits [20,47].
The full details of our constructions and their analysis can be found in the full
version. Similar to above, we ﬁrst construct an extractor secure against tamper-
ing functions without ﬁxed points (this one by Cheraghchi and Guruswami [27]
and ﬁrst construct an extractor secure against tampering functions without ﬁxed
points. Then we show how to remove the requirement of no ﬁxed-points in the
tampering functions to obtain seedless non-malleable extractor for polynomially
samplable sources and polynomially bounded tampering.14
Non-malleable Code. The above non-malleable extractors suggest an natural
path to non-malleable codes. Cheraghchi and Guruswami [27] show that invert-
ible non-malleable extractors for a tampering class C imply non-malleable codes
for that C. However, there are two obstacles to applying their approach here.
First, it is unclear how to eﬃciently invert our extractors. Secondly, this trans-
formation has 2k security loss, where k is the bit length of the messages to be
encoded. Given the polynomial security, this means the resulting construction
would have exponential length codewords and would not actually be explicit.
We therefore take the route of directly constructing non-malleable codes, with
the added beneﬁt that we reduce our hardness assumptions from “E requires
exponential size Σ3-circuits” (required for our non-malleable extractors) to “E
requires exponential size nondeterministic circuits.”
Our result is obtained by replacing the two-source non-malleable extractor
in the simple example above with a split-state non-malleable code: to encode a
message m, sample a split-state encoding of the form (G(S), y) and output s, y.
To make a similar Arthur Merlin distinguisher work for this construction, we
need the split-state code to have some special properties:
Special Encoding: We need to be able to sample pseudorandom split-state code
words eﬃciently in order to encode eﬃciently at all. To do this we introduce a
notion of special encoding:
There is an alternate encoding algorithm that receives the value of the ﬁrst
split state along with a message m and samples the second split-state so that the
14 Cheraghchi and Guruswami [27] showed a similar lemma for the case of split-state
tampering.

(Nondeterministic) Hardness vs. Non-malleability
165
resulting encoding decodes to m. Critically, if the value of the ﬁrst split-state
is sampled uniformly at random, then the outputted encoding is distributed
identically to a random encoding of m.
Leakage Resilience: The soundness argument above relied on the fact that
two-source extractors remain secure even if there is small amount of leakage on
the states (corresponding to the transcript). Note that this leakage is both to the
independent components of the split-state tampering function and the (possibly
ineﬃcient) distinguisher of the non-malleability game. If this is the case, we say
a such split-state code is leakage-resilient.15
“Augmented” NMC: Finally, our soundness argument above additionally
required that Merlin could not distinguish the real and ideal experiments even
when given the left source in its entirety. For this we relied on the fact that
2NMExt was a strong two-source non-malleable extractor. The corresponding
notion for split-state non-malleable codes is the augmented property: security of
the NMC holds even when one half of the codeword is revealed at the end of the
experiment to a (possibly ineﬃcient) distinguisher.
The split-state NMC constructions of [2,3] satisfy the necessary properties.
In the full version [16] we show how the leakage-resilience transformation of Ball
et al. [17] yields comparable codes with better leakage parameters. Details of our
NMC construction and its analysis are in Sect. 3. The rate of our code inherits
the rate of the NMC of Aggarwal et al. [2], which means that to encode a message
of length k one needs a codeword length of n = O(k7). A better split-state NMC
with the above properties will yield a better NMC for polysize tampering, but
rate is not our focus here.
1.5
Related Work
Non-malleable Extractors and Codes. There is by now a large body of work
on non-malleable extractors (NME) and non-malleable codes (NMC) resilient
against various classes of tampering [1,2,4,5,10,11,13,17,24,33,34,48,55,56]. In
the NMC case, some constructions not included in the list above rely on cryp-
tographic assumptions [6,14], while others require an untamperable common
reference string (CRS) [14,57]. There has also been much work on variants of
NME/NMC [23,30,37,49], as well as a relatively new line of work on a related
primitive called non-malleable secret sharing [43,44]. We restrict our attention
to constructions most relevant to the current work, namely, the prior construc-
tions of NMC (in the CRS and standard models) resilient to bounded poly-
nomial tampering, where “bounded polynomial” can refer to a restriction on
(1) circuit size, (2) uniform computation time, or (3) circuit depth. Existence
15 In the literature, leakage-resilient has been alternately used to refer to codes that
handle leakage only to the distinguisher as well as code that handle leakage only
between the tampering of each state.

166
M. Ball et al.
of non-malleable codes under all of the above types of tampering was initially
shown via the probabilistic method in [35] and they can also be constructed
eﬃciently in the random oracle model [35]. In the following, we additionally
restrict our attention to explicit, eﬃcient constructions without random oracles.
We also mention a somewhat related line of work on variants of non-malleable
codes resilient to polynomially space-bounded tampering in the random oracle
model [25,36].
NMC Against Bounded Polynomial Sized Circuits in the CRS Model. Faust et
al. [38] presented eﬃcient information theoretically secure NMC with negligible
error in the CRS model, resilient against tampering function classes F which
can be represented as circuits of size poly(n). The CRS in their construction is
a seed s for a p(n)-wise independent hash function, where p(n) is a polynomial
that is larger than the bound on the tampering circuit size.
NMC Against Uniform, Bounded Polynomial Time in the Standard Model. Ball
et al. [12] presented eﬃcient NMC resilient against tampering by functions com-
putable in uniform bounded polynomial time. Their construction is in the stan-
dard, no-CRS model and achieves error of 1/poly. They require a similar assump-
tion as those used in the current work, as well as cryptographic assumptions of
the existence of sub-exponentially hard trapdoor permutations and the existence
of P-certiﬁcates with sub-exponential soundness. The only known instantiation
of P-certiﬁcates requires assuming soundness of a non-trivial argument system
(Micali’s CS proofs [58]), which is true in the Random Oracle model. Due to
the use of cryptographic techniques in the construction and proof, the ﬁnal non-
malleable code achieves computational indistinguishability.
NMC Against Bounded Polynomial Depth Circuits (Unbounded Polynomial Size)
in the Standard Model. Dachman-Soled et al. [28,29] constructed NMC resilient
to all polynomial size tampering functions that have bounded polynomial depth.
This tampering class contains all bounded polynomial size functions and con-
tains non-uniform NC. Their construction is in the standard, no-CRS model and
achieves negligible error. They require the cryptographic assumptions of the exis-
tence of keyless multi-collision resistant hash function, injective one-way func-
tion, and non-interactive witness-indistinguishable proofs, as well as the repeated
squaring assumption. Keyless multi-collision resistant hash function are known
to exist in the auxiliary input random oracle model. Due to the use of crypto-
graphic techniques in the construction and proof, the ﬁnal non-malleable code
achieves computational indistinguishability.
Seedless Extractors for Samplable and Recognizable Sources. Trevisan and Vad-
han [64] considered seedless extractors for the class of distributions samplable
by bounded polynomial sized circuits. Under the assumption that E requires
exponential size Σ4 circuits, they presented constructions of seedless extractors
for linear min-entropy, samplable sources over n bits, that output Ω(n) bits that
are 1/poly-close to uniform. Applebaum et al. [7] showed that the 1/poly error

(Nondeterministic) Hardness vs. Non-malleability
167
is somewhat inherent by ruling out black-box reductions in this setting. They
introduced a notion of relative-error extractors and showed that if the output
of the extractor is 1/poly-close to uniform with relative error, then every event
occurs w.r.t. the output distribution with probability at most (1 + 1/poly) times
the probability it occurs w.r.t. the uniform distribution. In particular, events
that are negligible under the uniform distributions cannot become noticeable
under the distribution outputted by the extractor. Under the assumption that
E requires exponential size Σ4 circuits, they constructed relative-error seedless
extractors whose outputs are 1/poly-close to uniform with relative error for linear
min-entropy, samplable sources. Under the assumption that E requires exponen-
tial size Σ3 circuits, they constructed relative-error seedless extractors whose
outputs are 1/poly-close to uniform with relative error for linear min-entropy,
recognizable sources.
2
Preliminaries
For S ⊆N, where S = {i1, . . . , iℓ: i1 < · · · < iℓ} and any n-ary string of values
x1, . . . , xn, let xS denote the string (xi1, . . . , xiℓ). For random variables X, Y ,
we write Δ(X; Y ) ≤ϵ or X ≈ϵ Y if the total variation distance between their
distributions is at most ϵ.
2.1
Complexity Classes and Assumptions
We take E to denote DTIME[2O(n)] the class of languages decidable by deter-
ministic Turing machines in 2cn-time for some constant c. We take circuits to
denote circuits over the standard basis {∨, ∧, ¬}. For any language O, an O-
oracle aided circuit is a circuit that has special gates that decide O, in addition
to the standard-basis. For any circuit, we say it has size s if it contains at most
s gates. We say it has depth d if the longest path from any input to any output
gate is of size d. A circuit family, {Cn}n∈N, is a collection of circuits such that Cn
takes inputs of length n. We take the SIZE[s(n)] to denote the function families
computable by a circuit family {Cn}n∈N such that Cn has size at most s(n), for
large enough n. Similarly, we take SIZEO[s(n)] to denote the function families
computable by an O-oracle aided circuit family {Cn}n∈N such that Cn has size
at most s(n), for suﬃciently large n.
2.2
Non-malleable Codes
Deﬁnition 2.1 (Coding Schemes). A pair of functions (Enc, Dec), where Enc :
{0, 1}k →{0, 1}n is a randomized function and Dec : {0, 1}n →{0, 1}k ∪{⊥}
is a deterministic function, is deﬁned to be a coding scheme with block length n
and message length k if for all s ∈{0, 1}k, Pr[Dec(Enc(s)) = s] = 1.
Deﬁnition 2.2 (Tampering Functions). For any n > 0, let Hn denote the set of
all functions h : {0, 1}n →{0, 1}n. Any subset G ⊆Hn is a family of tampering

168
M. Ball et al.
functions. For any class of boolean functions F = {f : {0, 1}n →{0, 1}}, we take
Fn to denote the class of n-output functions where each output is computed by
some function in F, i.e. Fn = {fi1,...,in : x →fi1(x), . . . , fin(x) | fi1, . . . , fin ∈
F}.
The particular classes of tampering functions we consider in this work:
– Tampering where each output is computable by an s(n)-size circuit,
SIZEn[s(n)].
– Split-state tampering where two halves of an input are tampered indepen-
dently and arbitrarily: {(τL, τR) : x1, . . . , x2n →τL(x1, . . . , xn), τR(xn+1,
. . . , x2n)|τL, τR ∈Hn}.
We deﬁne a function that will be useful in deﬁning non-malleable codes:
Copy(x, y) =

x
if x ̸= same
y
if x = same.
Deﬁnition 2.3 (Non-malleable codes). A coding scheme (Enc, Dec) on alphabet
{0, 1} with block length n and message length k is a ϵ-non-malleable code with
respect to a tampering family F ⊂Hn if for every f ∈F there is a random
variable Df supported on {0, 1}k ∪{same} that is independent of the randomness
in Enc, and for any message z ∈{0, 1}k, we have
Δ (Dec(f(Enc(z))); Copy(Df, z)) ≤ϵ.
We refer to the parameter ϵ as the “error” of the non-malleable code.
We deﬁne the rate of a non-malleable code C to be the quantity k
n. We require
split-state codes with special properties.
Leakage-Resilience: Alice and Bob perform the split-state tampering, but can
communicate a bounded amount before tampering.
Augmented Split-State Non-malleability: There exists a simulator which
can simulate the joint distribution of the left (or right) codeword states in addi-
tion to the outcome of non-malleability experiment.
Special Encoding: There exists a special encoding procedure that given a
desired left (or right) codeword state and message, outputs a valid encoding of
the message. Importantly, if the special encoder is given uniform left codeword
states, its output is identically distributed to real encodings of the message.
Theorem 2.4 ([2,3,3,22]). There is a constant γ ∈(0, 1] such that, there exist
eﬃcient nγ-leakage-resilient exp(−nΩ(1))-augmented-split-state non-malleable
codes with special encoding. Moreover, the codewords are length (3+o(1))k where
k is the message length.

(Nondeterministic) Hardness vs. Non-malleability
169
2.3
Seed-Extending Pseudorandom Generators
Deﬁnition 2.5 ([50]). A function G : {0, 1}ℓ→{0, 1}n is said to be an ϵ-
pseudorandom generator (PRG) for a class C, if for all C ∈C,
Δ(C(G(Uℓ)); C(Un)) ≤ϵ
A PRG, G, is said to be seed-extending if the preﬁx of its output is its input,
i.e. G(s) = s, G′(s) for some function G′ : {0, 1}ℓ→{0, 1}n−ℓ.
We are principally concerned with seed-extending PRGs against various types
of circuits of a given size: non-deterministic circuits, non-deterministic NP-
circuits, etc. Throughout this paper, we take a PRG for a class of circuits of
size s to mean a 1/s-PRG for that class of circuits. Note that because we are
interested in both seed-extending PRGs, as well as PRGs for non-deterministic
circuits, so-called “cryptographic” PRGs which can be easily evaluated by the
classes they are constructed to fool do not suﬃce: a distinguisher given the
seed, or nondeterminism, can easily determine if a string is in the PRG’s image.
Thankfully, as observed by Kinne et al. [50], Nisan and Wigderson’s seminal con-
struction yields a seed extending PRG, provided one starts with an appropriately
hard function. We conclude with the formal theorem statement.
Theorem 2.6 ([7,46,50,51,61,62]). If E requires exponential size circuits of
type X ∈{deterministic, nondeterministic, NP, Σi}, then for every constant c >
1 there exists a constant α > 1 such that for every suﬃciently large n, and every
r such that α log n ≤ℓ≤n there is a seed-extending PRG, G : {0, 1}ℓ→{0, 1}n,
for size nc circuits of type X ∈{deterministic, nondeterministic, NP, Σi}.
Proposition 1. Let X be a random variable and f a function. Deﬁne Y =
f(X). For any ϵ and any random variable Y ′,
Δ(X; (X|f(X) = Y ′)) = Δ(Y ; Y ′).
The proof of Proposition 1 can be found in the full version [16].
3
A Non-malleable Code for Small Circuit Tampering
Lemma 3.1. For any polynomial s(n), there exists a polynomial s′(n) >
s(n) such that the following is true. Let ℓ(n) = O(log n) be the function
from Theorem 1.6 for G : {0, 1}ℓ(n) →{0, 1}n. If alrssEnc : {0, 1}k′
→
{0, 1}2n, alrssDec : {0, 1}2n →{0, 1}k′ is an augmented α-leakage-resilient split-
state δ-non-malleable code with special encoding, computable in time o(s(n)), and
G : {0, 1}ℓ(n) →{0, 1}n is a seed-extending PRG for nondeterministic circuits of
size O(s(n)c) such that ℓ(n) ≤α(n) and δ < (s′(n))2/32, then the construction,
(E, D) in Fig. 3.1 is a 4/s′(n)-alternate-non-malleable code for k′-bit messages
with codeword length O(n), resilient to SIZE[s(n)]-tampering with error 4/s′(n).

170
M. Ball et al.
Instantiating the above lemma with the alrssEnc presented in Theorem 2.4, and
with G given in Theorem 2.6, and using the fact that a 4/s′(n)-alternate-non-
malleable code for k′-bit messages is a 4/s′(n) + 2−k′-non-malleable code for
k′-bit messages we obtain the following corollary:
Theorem 3.2. If E requires exponential size nondeterministic circuits then for
any polynomial s(n), and for suﬃciently large k, there exists a 1/s(n)-non-
malleable code for k-bit messages with codeword length (1.5 + o(1))k that is
resilient to SIZE[s(n)]-tampering.
We note that rate 1 seems quite plausible in this setting.
Figure 3.1: Non-Malleable Code
Let (alrssEnc, alrssDec) be an augmented α(n)-leakage-resilient δ-split-
state non-malleable code with special encoding. Recall that special encod-
ing means that there exists an eﬃcient algorithm alrssEnc∗that takes a
pattern p := y||∗n as input, in addition to the message m, and outputs
alrssEnc∗(m, p) = (y, X) with the property that (alrssEnc∗(·, U), alrssDec)
is an augmented leakage-resilient split-state non-malleable code.
Let G be a PRG for nondeterministic circuits of size O(s(n)).
Encoding (E) : On input m, do the following
Sample s ←Uℓ. Sample (G(s), x) ←alrssEnc∗(m; p = G(s)||∗n).
Output E(m) = (s, x).
Decoding (D) : On input (˜s, ˜x), do the following
Compute ˜m = alrssDec(G(˜s), ˜x).
Output D(˜s, ˜x) = ˜m.
Proof of Lemma 3.1. Let ϵ(n) = 4/s′(n) (the target error of our non-malleable
code). Recall that 1/s′(n) is the advantage bound of the PRG, G. And
(alrssEnc, alrssDec) is δ-non-malleable (with additional properties).
For the sake contradiction, assume (E, D) does not satisfy ϵ-alternate-non-
malleability: namely, there exists m0, m1 ∈{0, 1}k and tampering function τ of
size s(n) such that
AltNMτ,E,D
m0,m1(0) ̸≈4/ϵ AltNMτ,E,D
m0,m1(1)
As before, we will use this fact (as well as the security of the underlying leakage-
resilient augmented-split-state non-malleable code) to break the pseudorandom-
ness guarantee of G by designing a constant-round private coin interactive proof
that distinguishes with some non-trivial soundness/completeness gap.
Fix any τ : (s, x) →(˜s, ˜x) in SIZEΣk[s(n)]. Deﬁne f to denote the function that
computes (s, x) →˜x according to τ, and g to denote the function that computes
(s, x) →˜s according to τ. In other words, τ(s, x) = (g(s, x), f(s, x)).
Claim 3.1. There exists a set ΠY such that

(Nondeterministic) Hardness vs. Non-malleability
171
1. ΠY is noticeably dense in G: Prs
u
←{0,1}ℓ[G(s) ∈ΠY ] ≥ϵ/2
2. When Merlin is honest, Arthur accepts (s, y) ∈ΠY with prob. > 1+ϵ/2
2
.
Figure 3.2: Interactive Proof for distinguishing G from uniform random
Recall that (alrssEnc, alrssDec) is an augmented leakage-resilient split-
state non-malleable code with special encoding, alrssEnc∗. Deﬁne
alrssEnc∗
R to be the alrssEnc∗that just outputs the right state, i.e. if
alrssEnc∗(m, p = y||∗n; r) →(y, x) then alrssEnc∗
R : (m, p = y||∗n; r) →x.
Recall that G is a PRG for nondeterministic circuits of size O(s(n)).
Finally, recall that f, g correspond to the tampering attack.
Our protocol aims to accept strings from Uℓ, G(Uℓ) when Merlin plays
according to below (completeness) and reject strings from Uℓ+n regardless
of the strategy Merlin utilizes (soundness). Because we can amplify by
repetition, it suﬃces for there to be small gap between the two.
Hardcoded into Arthur as non-uniform advice are f, g and m0, m1.
On input s, y:
Arthur Sample coin b ←U. Sample encoding (y, x) ←alrssEnc∗(mb, p =
y||∗n). Send Merlin ˜s = g(s, x).
Merlin If (s, y) = G(s), respond ˜y such that (˜s, ˜y) = G(˜s). Otherwise,
respond arbitrary ˜y.
Arthur Set z′ = alrssDec(˜y, ˜x) where ˜x = f(s, x). If z′ ∈{m0, m1}, set
z = same. Otherwise, set z = z′. Send z to Merlin.
Merlin (Guess Arthur’s bit.) If
Pr[alrssDec(˜y, f(s, alrssEnc∗
R(m0, y))) = z|g(s, alrssEnc∗
R(m0, y)) = ˜s]
is upper bounded by
Pr[alrssDec(˜y, f(s, alrssEnc∗
R(m1, y))) = z|g(s, alrssEnc∗
R(m1, y)) = ˜s]
set b′ = 1. Otherwise, set b′ = 0. Respond b′.
Arthur Accept if b = b′, and reject otherwise.
Proof. If the protocol in Fig. 3.2 is given inputs from G(S) = (S, G′(S)) (where
S ≡Uℓ), then upon choice of b = 1, Arthur’s ﬁnal message is that of the alternate-
non-malleability game, z ∼AltNMτ
m0,m1(1). If b = 0, Arthur’s ﬁnal message is
sampled according to (z, ˜z) ∼AltNMτ
m0,m1(0). By our assumption, these two
distributions are ϵ-far from each other. From this and a simple combinatorial
argument (Proposition 4 in the full version [16]), there exists a set ΠY s.t. for any
(s, y) ∈ΠY these distributions are ϵ/2-far, and moreover Pr[G(S) ∈ΠY ] ≥ϵ/2.
By a standard argument (Proposition 2 in the full version [16]), this means
that for any (s, y) ∈ΠY Merlin guesses b correctly and Arthur accepts with
probability ≥1+ϵ/2
2
.
⊓⊔

172
M. Ball et al.
Claim 3.2. There exists a set ΠN such that
1. ΠN is large: Pr(s,y)
u
←{0,1}ℓ+n[(s, y) ∈ΠN] ≥1 −8δ/ϵ
2. Arthur accepts inputs in ΠN with probability ≤1+ϵ/4
2
when playing with any
(cheating) Merlin (as prescribed in Fig. 3.2).
Proof. Soundness follows from ﬁrst observing that any Merlin strategy corre-
sponds to some α-leaky split-state tampering on the augmented-leakage resilient
split state-code. We conclude soundness because Merlin’s view is that of the
alternate leakage-resilient augmented-split-state game. We use the existence an
optimal strategy M ∗(who, for any input (s, y), chooses messages to maximize
the distance of his view when Arthur chooses b = 0 versus his view when Arthur
chooses b = 1) to apply the Markov argument to a single distribution.
Fix an optimal Merlin strategy M ∗as described and assume s, y are uniformly
distributed. We make some observations about the protocol in this case:
Well-Formed Augmented Leakage-Resilient Split-State Encodings.
Uniform y ∼U means our leakage-resilient augmented-split-state codewords
are properly distributed, namely for b = 0, 1 it is the case that alrssEnc∗(mb, p =
U||∗n) ≡alrssEnc(mb). Moreover, s is independent of the split-state codeword
(x, y) sampled by Arthur at the beginning.
ℓ-Leaky Split-State Tampering. Arthur’s ﬁrst message to Merlin, corre-
sponding to the random variable ˜s = g(s, x), can be viewed as ℓ-bits of leakage
from the right codeword state (to the left tampering function).
Thus, we have ˜x = f(s, x) and ˜y = M ∗(s, y, g(s, x)) which for any ﬁxed
choice of s is an ℓ-leaky split-state tampering, Πs. Thus when s is random, Πs
is a distribution over ℓ-leaky split-state tampering functions.
Merlin’s View is Identical to Augmented Alternate-Non-malleable
Game. Recall that Merlin’s view corresponds to the variables (s, y, ˜s, z) =
ViewM ∗(b), where b is Arthur’s initial coin. Observe that (y, ˜s, z) is sampled
identically to AltANMΠs,alrssEnc,alrssDec(b), where b is Arthur’s initial coin toss.
And s is independent of the initial encoding in the AltANM game, which has
worst case guarantees that apply to Πs for any choice of s.
Putting these observations together, we have by that, because (alrssEnc,
alrssDec) is an ℓ-leakage-resilient δ-augmented-split-state non-malleable code,
and since (see Lemma A.9 in the full version [16]) this implies that it is also a 2δ-
augmented-split-state alternate non-malleable code, ViewM ∗(0) ≈2δ ViewM ∗(1).
Observe that if there existed a strategy M ′ and input (s, y) such that the
distance between the view of M ′ on b = 0 vs b = 1 was greater than that of
M ∗, this would contradict the optimality of M ∗. Thus, by a simple Markov
argument (Proposition 3 in the full version [16]) there exists a set, ΠN such that
Pr(s,y)
u
←{0,1}ℓ+n[(s, y) ∈ΠN] ≥1−8δ/ϵ and for each (s, y) ∈ΠN and any Merlin

(Nondeterministic) Hardness vs. Non-malleability
173
strategy M ′, the view when b = 0 is ϵ/4-far from the view when b = 1. Thus by
a standard argument (Proposition 2 in the full version [16]), this means for any
(s, y) ∈ΠN, any Merlin strategy outputs b′ such that b′ = b with probability at
most 1+ϵ/4
2
.
⊓⊔
We conclude from Claim 3.1 and Claim 3.2, that there is a constant round
IP protocol where Arthur can be represented by circuit of size O(s(n)) that
recognizes Π = (ΠY , ΠN) with completeness/soundness gap ϵ/2. By classical
results (Lemma 2.21 in the full version [16]), this implies the existence of an s′(n)-
size nondeterministic circuit, C, that decides the promise problem, Π. Because
ΠY is ϵ/2-dense under G (i.e. Prs[G(s) ∈ΠY ]) and ΠN is 1 −8δ/ϵ dense under
the uniform distribution (i.e. Prz[z ∈ΠY ] ≤4δ/ϵ). The nondeterministic circuit
C can distinguish with advantage |ϵ/2 −8δ/ϵ| ≥ϵ/4 = 1/s′(n). So, our initial
assumption must be false.
⊓⊔
References
1. Aggarwal, D., Dodis, Y., Kazana, T., Obremski, M.: Non-malleable reductions
and applications. In: Servedio, R.A., Rubinfeld, R. (eds.) Proceedings of the 47th
Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, Portland, 14–17 June 2015,
pp. 459–468. ACM Press (2015)
2. Aggarwal, D., Dodis, Y., Lovett, S.: Non-malleable codes from additive combina-
torics. SIAM J. Comput. 47(2), 524–546 (2018)
3. Aggarwal, D., Kanukurthi, B., Obbattu, S.L.B., Obremski, M., Sekar, S.: Rate one-
third non-malleable codes. In: IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive, p. 1042 (2021)
4. Aggarwal, D., Obremski, M.: A constant rate non-malleable code in the split-state
model. In: Proceedings of the 61st Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer
Science, Durham, 16–19 November 2020, pp. 1285–1294. IEEE Computer Society
Press (2020)
5. Agrawal, S., Gupta, D., Maji, H.K., Pandey, O., Prabhakaran, M.: Explicit non-
malleable codes against bit-wise tampering and permutations. In: Gennaro, R.,
Robshaw, M. (eds.) CRYPTO 2015. LNCS, vol. 9215, pp. 538–557. Springer, Hei-
delberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-47989-6 26
6. Agrawal, S., Gupta, D., Maji, H.K., Pandey, O., Prabhakaran, M.: A rate-
optimizing compiler for non-malleable codes against bit-wise tampering and per-
mutations. In: Dodis, Y., Nielsen, J.B. (eds.) TCC 2015. LNCS, vol. 9014, pp.
375–397. Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-46494-
6 16
7. Applebaum, B., Artemenko, S., Shaltiel, R., Yang, G.: Incompressible functions,
relative-error extractors, and the power of nondeterministic reductions. Comput.
Complex. 25(2), 349–418 (2016)
8. Babai, L.: Trading group theory for randomness. In: 17th Annual ACM Symposium
on Theory of Computing, Providence, 6–8 May 1985, pp. 421–429. ACM Press
(1985)
9. Babai, L., Moran, S.: Arthur-merlin games: a randomized proof system, and a
hierarchy of complexity classes. J. Comput. Syst. Sci. 36(2), 254–276 (1988)

174
M. Ball et al.
10. Ball, M., Chattopadhyay, E., Liao, J.-J., Malkin, T., Tan, L.-Y.: Non-malleability
against polynomial tampering. In: Micciancio, D., Ristenpart, T. (eds.) CRYPTO
2020. LNCS, vol. 12172, pp. 97–126. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-56877-1 4
11. Ball, M., Dachman-Soled, D., Guo, S., Malkin, T., Tan, L.-Y.: Non-malleable codes
for small-depth circuits. In: Thorup, M. (ed.) Proceedings of the 59th Annual
Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science, Paris, 7–9 October 2018, pp.
826–837. IEEE Computer Society Press (2018)
12. Ball, M., Dachman-Soled, D., Kulkarni, M., Lin, H., Malkin, T.: Non-malleable
codes against bounded polynomial time tampering. In: Ishai, Y., Rijmen, V. (eds.)
EUROCRYPT 2019. LNCS, vol. 11476, pp. 501–530. Springer, Cham (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-17653-2 17
13. Ball, M., Dachman-Soled, D., Kulkarni, M., Malkin, T.: Non-malleable codes for
bounded depth, bounded fan-in circuits. In: Fischlin, M., Coron, J.-S. (eds.) EURO-
CRYPT 2016. LNCS, vol. 9666, pp. 881–908. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-49896-5 31
14. Ball, M., Dachman-Soled, D., Kulkarni, M., Malkin, T.: Non-malleable codes from
average-case hardness: AC0, decision trees, and streaming space-bounded tamper-
ing. In: Nielsen, J.B., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2018. LNCS, vol. 10822, pp.
618–650. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-78372-7 20
15. Ball, M., Dachman-Soled, D., Kulkarni, M., Malkin, T.: Limits to non-malleability.
In: Vidick, T. (ed.) Proceedings of the ITCS 2020: 11th Innovations in Theoretical
Computer Science Conference, Seattle, 12–14 January 2020, vol. 151, pp. 80:1–
80:32. LIPIcs (2020)
16. Ball, M., Dachman-Soled, D., Loss, J.: (Nondeterministic) hardness vs. non-
malleability. In: IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive, p. 70 (2022)
17. Ball, M., Guo, S., Wichs, D.: Non-malleable codes for decision trees. In: Boldyreva,
A., Micciancio, D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019. LNCS, vol. 11692, pp. 413–434. Springer,
Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-26948-7 15
18. Barak, B., et al.: Leftover hash lemma, revisited. In: Rogaway, P. (ed.) CRYPTO
2011. LNCS, vol. 6841, pp. 1–20. Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-642-22792-9 1
19. Barak, B., Ong, S.J., Vadhan, S.: Derandomization in cryptography. In: Boneh, D.
(ed.) CRYPTO 2003. LNCS, vol. 2729, pp. 299–315. Springer, Heidelberg (2003).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-45146-4 18
20. Bellare, M., Goldreich, O., Petrank, E.: Uniform generation of NP-witnesses using
an NP-oracle. Inf. Comput. 163(2), 510–526 (2000)
21. Bitansky, N., Kalai, Y.T., Paneth, O.: Multi-collision resistance: a paradigm for
keyless hash functions. In: Diakonikolas, I., Kempe, D., Henzinger, M. (eds.) Pro-
ceedings of the 50th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, Los Ange-
les, 25–29 June 2018, pp. 671–684. ACM Press (2018)
22. Brian, G., Faonio, A., Obremski, M., Simkin, M., Venturi, D.: Non-malleable secret
sharing against bounded joint-tampering attacks in the plain model. In: Micciancio,
D., Ristenpart, T. (eds.) CRYPTO 2020. LNCS, vol. 12172, pp. 127–155. Springer,
Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-56877-1 5
23. Chattopadhyay, E., Goyal, V., Li, X.: Non-malleable extractors and codes, with
their many tampered extensions. In: Wichs, D., Mansour, Y. (eds.) Proceedings of
the 48th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, Cambridge, 18–21
June 2016, pp. 285–298. ACM Press (2018)

(Nondeterministic) Hardness vs. Non-malleability
175
24. Chattopadhyay, E., Li, X.: Non-malleable codes and extractors for small-depth
circuits, and aﬃne functions. In: Hatami, H., McKenzie, P., King, V. (eds.) Pro-
ceedings of the 49th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, Montreal,
19–23 June 2017, pp. 1171–1184. ACM Press (2017)
25. Chen, B., Chen, Y., Host´akov´a, K., Mukherjee, P.: Continuous space-bounded
non-malleable codes from stronger proofs-of-space. In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio,
D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019. LNCS, vol. 11692, pp. 467–495. Springer, Cham (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-26948-7 17
26. Cheraghchi, M., Guruswami, V.: Capacity of non-malleable codes. In: Naor, M.
(ed.) Proceedings of the ITCS 2014: 5th Conference on Innovations in Theoretical
Computer Science, Princeton, 12–14 January 2014, pp. 155–168. Association for
Computing Machinery (2014)
27. Cheraghchi, M., Guruswami, V.: Non-malleable coding against bit-wise and split-
state tampering. In: Lindell, Y. (ed.) TCC 2014. LNCS, vol. 8349, pp. 440–464.
Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-54242-8 19
28. Dachman-Soled, D., Komargodski, I., Pass, R.: Non-malleable codes for bounded
polynomial depth tampering. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/776 (2020).
https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/776
29. Dachman-Soled, D., Komargodski, I., Pass, R.: Non-malleable codes for bounded
parallel-time tampering. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) CRYPTO 2021. LNCS,
vol. 12827, pp. 535–565. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-84252-9 18
30. Dachman-Soled, D., Liu, F.-H., Shi, E., Zhou, H.-S.: Locally decodable and updat-
able non-malleable codes and their applications. In: Dodis, Y., Nielsen, J.B. (eds.)
TCC 2015. LNCS, vol. 9014, pp. 427–450. Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-46494-6 18
31. Dodis, Y., Yu, Yu.: Overcoming weak expectations. In: Sahai, A. (ed.) TCC 2013.
LNCS, vol. 7785, pp. 1–22. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-642-36594-2 1
32. Drucker, A.: Nondeterministic direct product reductions and the success proba-
bility of SAT solvers. In: 54th Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer
Science, Berkeley, 26–29 October 2013, pp. 736–745. IEEE Computer Society Press
(2013)
33. Dziembowski, S., Kazana, T., Obremski, M.: Non-malleable codes from two-source
extractors. In: Canetti, R., Garay, J.A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2013. LNCS, vol. 8043, pp.
239–257. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-40084-
1 14
34. Dziembowski, S., Pietrzak, K., Wichs, D.: Non-malleable codes. In: Yao, A.C.-C.
(ed.) ICS 2010: 1st Innovations in Computer Science, Tsinghua University, Beijing,
5–7 January 2010, pp. 434–452. Tsinghua University Press (2010)
35. Dziembowski, S., Pietrzak, K., Wichs, D.: Non-malleable codes. J. ACM 65(4),
20:1-20:32 (2018)
36. Faust, S., Host´akov´a, K., Mukherjee, P., Venturi, D.: Non-malleable codes for
space-bounded tampering. In: Katz, J., Shacham, H. (eds.) CRYPTO 2017. LNCS,
vol. 10402, pp. 95–126. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
63715-0 4
37. Faust, S., Mukherjee, P., Nielsen, J.B., Venturi, D.: Continuous non-malleable
codes. In: Lindell, Y. (ed.) TCC 2014. LNCS, vol. 8349, pp. 465–488. Springer,
Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-54242-8 20

176
M. Ball et al.
38. Faust, S., Mukherjee, P., Venturi, D., Wichs, D.: Eﬃcient non-malleable codes and
key-derivation for poly-size tampering circuits. In: Nguyen, P.Q., Oswald, E. (eds.)
EUROCRYPT 2014. LNCS, vol. 8441, pp. 111–128. Springer, Heidelberg (2014).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-55220-5 7
39. Feige, U., Lund, C.: On the hardness of computing the permanent of random
matrices. Comput. Complex. 6(2), 101–132 (1997)
40. Goldreich, O., Micali, S., Wigderson, A.: Proofs that yield nothing but their validity
for all languages in NP have zero-knowledge proof systems. J. ACM 38(3), 691–729
(1991)
41. Goldreich, O., Wigderson, A.: Derandomization that is rarely wrong from short
advice that is typically good. In: Rolim, J.D.P., Vadhan, S. (eds.) RANDOM 2002.
LNCS, vol. 2483, pp. 209–223. Springer, Heidelberg (2002). https://doi.org/10.
1007/3-540-45726-7 17
42. Goldwasser, S., Sipser, M.: Private coins versus public coins in interactive proof
systems. In: 18th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, Berkeley,
28–30 May 1986, pp. 59–68. ACM Press (1986)
43. Goyal, V., Kumar, A.: Non-malleable secret sharing. In: Diakonikolas, I., Kempe,
D., Henzinger, M. (eds.) Proceedings of the 50th Annual ACM Symposium on
Theory of Computing, Los Angeles, 25–29 June 2018, pp. 685–698. ACM Press
(2018)
44. Goyal, V., Kumar, A.: Non-malleable secret sharing for general access structures.
In: Shacham, H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2018. LNCS, vol. 10991, pp. 501–
530. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-96884-1 17
45. Gutfreund, D., Shaltiel, R., Ta-Shma, A.: Uniform hardness versus randomness
tradeoﬀs for Arthur-Merlin games. Comput. Complex. 12(3–4), 85–130 (2003)
46. Impagliazzo, R., Wigderson, A.: P = BPP if E requires exponential circuits: deran-
domizing the XOR lemma. In: 29th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Com-
puting, El Paso, 4–6 May 1997, pp. 220–229. ACM Press (1997)
47. Jerrum, M., Valiant, L.G., Vazirani, V.V.: Random generation of combinatorial
structures from a uniform distribution. Theor. Comput. Sci. 43, 169–188 (1986)
48. Kanukurthi, B., Obbattu, S.L.B., Sekar, S.: Four-state non-malleable codes with
explicit constant rate. In: Kalai, Y., Reyzin, L. (eds.) TCC 2017. LNCS, vol.
10678, pp. 344–375. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
70503-3 11
49. Kanukurthi, B., Obbattu, S.L.B., Sekar, S.: Non-malleable randomness encoders
and their applications. In: Nielsen, J.B., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2018.
LNCS, vol. 10822, pp. 589–617. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-319-78372-7 19
50. Kinne, J., van Melkebeek, D., Shaltiel, R.: Pseudorandom generators, typically-
correct derandomization, and circuit lower bounds. Comput. Complex. 21(1), 3–61
(2012)
51. Klivans, A.R., van Melkebeek, D.: Graph nonisomorphism has subexponential size
proofs unless the polynomial-time hierarchy collapses. SIAM J. Comput. 31(5),
1501–1526 (2002)
52. Levin, L.A.: Average case complete problems. SIAM J. Comput. 15(1), 285–286
(1986)

(Nondeterministic) Hardness vs. Non-malleability
177
53. Li, F., Zuckerman, D.: Improved extractors for recognizable and algebraic sources.
In: Achlioptas, D., V´egh, L.A. (eds.) Approximation, Randomization, and Com-
binatorial Optimization. Algorithms and Techniques, APPROX/RANDOM 2019,
20–22 September 2019, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, volume
145 of LIPIcs, pp. 72:1–72:22. Schloss Dagstuhl - Leibniz-Zentrum f¨ur Informatik
(2019)
54. Li, X.: Improved non-malleable extractors, non-malleable codes and independent
source extractors. Electron. Colloq. Comput. Complex. 23, 115 (2016)
55. Li, X.: Improved non-malleable extractors, non-malleable codes and independent
source extractors. In Hatami, H., McKenzie, P., King, V. (eds.) Proceedings of the
49th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, Montreal, 19–23 June
2017, pp. 1144–1156. ACM Press (2017)
56. Li, X.: Non-malleable extractors and non-malleable codes: partially optimal con-
structions. In: Proceedings of the 34th Computational Complexity Conference,
CCC 2019, New Brunswick, 18–20 July 2019, pp. 28:1–28:49 (2019)
57. Liu, F.-H., Lysyanskaya, A.: Tamper and leakage resilience in the split-state model.
In: Safavi-Naini, R., Canetti, R. (eds.) CRYPTO 2012. LNCS, vol. 7417, pp. 517–
532. Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-32009-5 30
58. Micali, S.: CS proofs (extended abstracts). In: 35th Annual Symposium on Foun-
dations of Computer Science, Santa Fe, 20–22 November 1994, pp. 436–453. IEEE
Computer Society Press (1994)
59. Miltersen, P.B., Vinodchandran, N.V.: Derandomizing Arthur-Merlin games using
hitting sets. Comput. Complex. 14(3), 256–279 (2005)
60. Shaltiel, R.: Weak derandomization of weak algorithms: explicit versions of Vao’s
lemma. Comput. Complex. 20(1), 87–143 (2011)
61. Shaltiel, R., Umans, C.: Simple extractors for all min-entropies and a new pseudo-
random generator. J. ACM 52(2), 172–216 (2005)
62. Shaltiel, R., Umans, C.: Pseudorandomness for approximate counting and sam-
pling. Comput. Complex. 15(4), 298–341 (2006)
63. Shaltiel, R., Umans, C.: Low-end uniform hardness versus randomness tradeoﬀs
for AM. SIAM J. Comput. 39(3), 1006–1037 (2009)
64. Trevisan, L., Vadhan, S.P.: Extracting randomness from samplable distributions.
In: 41st Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science, Redondo Beach,
12–14 November 2000, pp. 32–42. IEEE Computer Society Press (2000)

