Oblivious Message Retrieval
Zeyu Liu1(B) and Eran Tromer1,2
1 Columbia University, New York, USA
zl2967@columbia.edu
2 Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel
Abstract. Anonymous message delivery systems, such as private mes-
saging services and privacy-preserving payment systems, need a mecha-
nism for recipients to retrieve the messages addressed to them without
leaking metadata or letting their messages be linked. Recipients could
download all posted messages and scan for those addressed to them, but
communication and computation costs are excessive at scale.
We show how untrusted servers can detect messages on behalf of recip-
ients, and summarize these into a compact encrypted digest that recip-
ients can easily decrypt. These servers operate obliviously and do not
learn anything about which messages are addressed to which recipients.
Privacy, soundness, and completeness hold even if everyone but the recip-
ient is adversarial and colluding (unlike in prior schemes).
Our starting point is an asymptotically-eﬃcient approach, using Fully
Homomorphic Encryption and homomorphically-encoded Sparse Ran-
dom Linear Codes. We then address the concrete performance using
bespoke tailoring of lattice-based cryptographic components, alongside
various algebraic and algorithmic optimizations. This reduces the digest
size to a few bits per message scanned. Concretely, the servers’ cost is ∼$1
per million messages scanned, and the resulting digests can be decoded
by recipients in under ∼20 ms. Our schemes can thus practically attain
the strongest form of receiver privacy for current applications such as
privacy-preserving cryptocurrencies.
1
Introduction
End-to-end encryption of message content is well understood and widely prac-
ticed. However, metadata about which messages were sent and received by
whom, and when, can yield abundant sensitive information via traﬃc analysis
and deductions against auxiliary information. Protecting metadata is thus cru-
cial to anonymous message delivery systems [7] such as anonymous messaging
[20,42,61], privacy-preserving analytics [11], and privacy-preserving cryptocur-
rencies [8,48].
Yet, the problem of protecting communication metadata remains an open chal-
lenge for many applications, especially when privacy, scalability, eﬃciency and
decentralization are all crucial. This challenge is well exempliﬁed by metadata
protection in privacy-preserving cryptocurrencies, such as Zcash [8,30] and Mon-
ero [48]. These convey digital asset transaction on a public ledger (blockchain),
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
Y. Dodis and T. Shrimpton (Eds.): CRYPTO 2022, LNCS 13507, pp. 753–783, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15802-5_26

754
Z. Liu and E. Tromer
while keeping the contents of every transaction hidden from all but the counterpar-
ties to the transaction (and those they elect to expose it to), using cryptographic
protocols utilizing encryption and zero-knowledge proofs. Moreover, the underly-
ing ledger is permissionless, decentralized and widely replicated, allowing anyone
to send transactions over the Internet while anonymizing their IP address via stan-
dard means such as the Tor network. Supposedly, metadata leaks are thus elimi-
nated.1
However, a crucial point lingers. From a receiver’s perspective, a transaction
pertinent to them could appear anywhere in the ledger. If the receiver has a
full copy of the ledger (a “full node” in blockchain parlance), then it could scan
it to identify pertinent transactions, but the requisite communication, storage
and computation cost may far exceed the capabilities of recipients (e.g., already
today, such ledgers are many GB in size; consider, then, wallet apps running on
computationally-weak mobile devices, with little storage, using slow or expensive
network connections).
How, then, can recipients eﬃciently detect which messages are pertinent to
them, and retrieve the content of these messages? In general, we consider a bul-
letin board consisting of numerous messages, with arbitrary application-speciﬁc
content (of ﬁxed size). Each message is pertinent to a single recipient (identiﬁed
by their public address) to which it was sent, and impertinent to other recipi-
ents. A recipient, in lieu of receiving and scanning the whole ledger (full-scan),
may enlist the help of servers, which we call detectors, that will help them detect
their pertinent messages and retrieve the content of these messages.
One approach is for the recipient to provide the detector with a “detection
key” or “incoming viewing key”, that allows the detector to check, for each
bulletin board message, whether it is pertinent to that recipient [30,48]. The
pertinent messages can then be stored and forwarded to the client. Unfortunately,
this exposes metadata to the detector, and thus also to anyone who subverted
or coerced the detector, whether in real time or retroactively. Furthermore, such
long-lived detection key enables devastating deanonymization attacks.2
The problem of Oblivious Message Detection (OMD) is to perform such detec-
tion without revealing any information to the detectors about which messages
are pertinent. This is done today in Zcash via the ZIP-307 “light client” protocol
[27], which is essentially optimized full-scan: convert each message to a compact
format which contains just enough information for the recipient to check for
pertinence, and then send all of these compacted messages to the recipient for
processing. In practice, this process can take hours even for a relatively lightly-
used chain, and is recognized as a severe usability and scalability issue.
1 In reality, today’s blockchain privacy solutions suﬀer from assorted metadata leaks
such as variability in transaction record size, ill-deﬁned cryptographic guaran-
tees, inadequate network-level anonymization, exposure of amounts at the interface
between transaction pools, and operational mistakes. These are outside our scope.
2 For example, an adversary who acquired a detection key can easily ascertain whether
that key belongs to a given person, by simulating a transaction to that person and
seeing if it matches that detection key; if so, then all past and future transaction
pertinent to that recipient become linked.

Oblivious Message Retrieval
755
Furthermore, the full task is Oblivious Message Retrieval (OMR), where the
recipient also gets the content (payload) of their pertinent messages. Given just
detection, the recipient would still have to retrieve every detected pertinent
message by some means. Naively querying the detector (or some other server)
again leaks the pertinency metadata. This could be mitigated by using Private
Information Retrieval, mixnets, or decoy traﬃc, but at high cost or/or ill-deﬁned
security. This is recognized by practitioners as an important open problem.3
These problems have been studied by two recent works, which made signif-
icant headway, but still carry signiﬁcant drawbacks. Fuzzy Message Detection
(FMD) [7] is based on inducing false-positive decoys into detection, and presents
a diﬃcult tradeoﬀbetween security (a high decoy density is needed to foil adver-
sarial analysis) and eﬃciency (these decoys all entail costs). Private Signaling
(PS) [44]4 provides full privacy only if a single detector serves all recipients in
the system, and moreover requires either trusted hardware such as Intel SGX, or
a pair of servers that are in constant communication but trusted not to collude.
Furthermore, both works assume for correctness that all senders and recipi-
ents behave honestly, and are susceptible to ampliﬁed Denial-of-Service attacks,
where an adversary can induce detector and/or recipient work that is dispropor-
tional to the number of messages they place on the bulletin board. They also
exhibit linkability between detection queries and identities. (See further discus-
sion below.) We thus pose the problem:
Is it feasible to achieve oblivious message retrieval/detection that is fully
private, DoS-resistant, unlinkable, trustless, and practical?
1.1
Our Contributions
In this paper, we propose schemes that fulﬁll all of the above requirements. Our
approach is based on homomorphic encryption using lattice-based cryptography.
Strong Security Deﬁnitions. We formally deﬁne the notions of Oblivious
Message Retrieval and Detection. Our deﬁnitions capture natural notions of
correctness and privacy, and moreover capture two important security notions
that prior works failed to capture or achieve:
– Prior works are vulnerable to ampliﬁed Denial-of-Service attacks in the real-
istic threat model where there exist malicious participants (senders or recipi-
ents) in the messaging system. Our strengthened notion says that even if arbi-
trary system participants are adversarial and colluding, they cannot induce
more errors or costs than honest participants.
– Prior works are vulnerable to key-linkability attacks, which tie retrieval actions
to public identities (or to each other) since public keys are themselves reused or
linkable. We achieve a strong notion of key unlinkability, preventing these.
3 E.g., Zcash developers [32] deem it an “action item” that the “lightwalletd [server]
learns which transactions belong to the wallet”, and described the popular mitigation
of using decoy fetches as “security theatre” that fails to achieve unlinkability.
4 Private Signaling [44] is a concurrent and independent work, available only as a
preprint at the time of this paper’s submission.

756
Z. Liu and E. Tromer
Possibility of Compact OMR and OMD. We show that Fully Homomor-
phic Encryption (FHE) can be used to achieve message retrieval and detection
with full privacy against any (computationally-bounded) adversary. Moreover,
we show that FHE can be used to distill the full bulletin board into a compact
digest of size that is near-linear in the number of pertinent messages, rather than
all messages in the bulletin board.
Our approach is based on annotating messages with clues to their perti-
nence, having the detector inspect these clues using FHE and pack the pertinent
messages into a compact digest using homomorphically-encoded sparse random
linear codes, and having the recipient algebraically reconstruct the messages
from the decrypted digest. The homomorphic packing and encoding stages are
reminiscent of techniques used in batch Private Stream Search [51] and Private
Information Retrieval [4,5], adapted and optimized to the OMR/OMD setting.
Practical OMR/OMD. Generic use of FHE is notoriously ineﬃcient. We
tackle this by a series of optimizations to drastically improve concrete perfor-
mance. Our techniques include bespoke composition of several diﬀerent lattice-
based schemes (speciﬁcally PVW [54] and BFV [13,24]) and extensions thereto,
utilization of SIMD-like packed operations, using a tailored Sparse Random Lin-
ear Code, optimization of multiplicative depth to avoid expensive bootstrapping,
and parameter tuning.
We thereby obtain several concrete schemes, with diﬀerent tradeoﬀs, that
achieve our security notions under standard lattice hardness assumptions (Ring-
LWE). Security is thus plausibly postquantum. DoS-resistance holds under an
additional natural conjecture about LWE-based encryption, or using zk-SNARKs.
Implementation and Evaluation. We implemented our schemes as an open-
source C++ library [50] and measured their concrete performance for a variety
of parameters and in comparison to prior work. Salient observations include:
– Detector-to-recipient computation: for Bitcoin-scale parameter settings, our
OMR schemes have lower detector-to-recipient communication than any other
known retrieval scheme: ∼9 bits per message for retrieval, and ∼4.5 bits/msg
for just detection. For even larger parameters, the amortized retrieval digest
size drops below 1 bit/msg.
– Recipient’s computation is faster than any other known retrieval scheme, e.g.,
∼20 ms to retrieve 50 pertinent messages out of 500, 000.
– Detector’s cost for full retrieval is higher than in related schemes, but still
quite practical at ∼0.065 s/msg (∼$1.02 per million messages) on a small
cloud VM. For just detection, our scheme is faster than any other known
scheme, including those based on trusted hardware.
Thus, our schemes are attractive when recipients are limited in bandwidthor
computation speed. The one drawback is a one-time cost of sending a key of size
∼129 MB to a detector.
Cryptocurrency Integration. We discuss key design points in integrating
our scheme with a blockchain-based privacy-preserving cryptocurrency (exem-
pliﬁed by Zcash) including protocol and costs aspect. We conclude that our

Oblivious Message Retrieval
757
Table 1. Comparison of privacy guarantees and assumptions. Here, pN-msg-anonymity
means the recipient’s messages are hidden among decoy (false-positive) messages which
are a p fraction of the total N messages. “Partitioned across detectors” privacy means
that if multiple detectors are used for scalability, then the anonymity set is just the
recipients served by the same detector. “Honest S&R” means all senders are honest
when generating clue for messages, and all receivers are honest when generating their
clue keys. PS1 can be modiﬁed for key unlinkability (cf. Sect. 8). TEE means Trusted
Execution Environment.
Scheme
Privacy
Soundness + completeness
Detection
Retrieval
Assumptions
Assumptions
Overﬂows
Full Scan
[27] Full
ECDH + Auth Enc
None
None
FMD1
[7] pN-msg-anonymity, ﬁxed p = 2−i PKE
Honest S&R
None
FMD2
[7] pN-msg-anonymity, dynamic p
PKE
None
PS1
[44] Full
N/A
TEE (SGX) + DDH + PKE
Undetected
PS2
[44] Partitioned
across detectors N/A
Communicating non-colluding servers
+ Garbled Circuit + Unforgeable Sigs
Undetected
OMRt1
§5.3
Full + full-key-unlinkability
FHE
Detected
OMRp1
§6.3
Full + full-key-unlinkability
Ring-LWE
Honest S&R or Conjecture 1
or zk-SNARK
Detected
OMRp2
§6.4
Full + full-key-unlinkability
Ring-LWE
Detected
scheme is compatible with existing protocols, and that the cost of detection
service would be ∼$1 of Cloud Computing per million messages scanned (i.e.,
similar magnitude to the total monthly transaction ﬂow in all privacy-preserving
cryptocurrencies).
2
Related Work
2.1
Message Detection
Privacy-preserving message detection and retrieval has been studied in several
prior and concurrent works, discussed below. Table 1 summarizes the function-
ality and privacy aspects of these scheme, compared to our Oblivious Message
Retrieval schemes presented in Sects. 5 to 8. See also Sect. 9 (e.g., Table 2) for
comparison of concrete performance.5
The closest prior work, addressing message detection in a sense similar to
ours, is Fuzzy Message Detection (FMD) [7]. In Table 1 in this section, FMD1
and FMD2 refer to Figs. 3 and 4 in [7], respectively. FMD provides the privacy we
call pN-msg-anonymity: the detector can observe which messages were ﬂagged
as pertinent, but hidden among many intentional false-positives which are indis-
tinguishable from the truly pertinent messages. These decoys are a p fraction
of the N messages in the bulletin. Like other decoy-based privacy notions, pN-
msg-anonymity introduces uncertainty into naive analysis, but still allows many
privacy-violating deductions, especially given recurring traﬃc or an active adver-
sary [41].
5 For reference, these tables also include full scan, which is the straightforward linear-
communication approach where the recipient scans each message (or a relevant part
thereof) in the whole bulletin board (used, e.g., in the Zcash light wallet [27]).

758
Z. Liu and E. Tromer
Another closely related work (concurrent and independent) is Private Sig-
naling (PS) [44]. Their model assumes that signals (analogous to our clues) are
sent directly to servers (analogous to our detectors). Servers handle these sig-
nals in a privacy-preserving way, using one of two mechanisms. The single-server
(PS1) scheme relies on a Trusted Execution Environment (Intel SGX), running
on the detector server. This is a very strong trust assumption (especially given
the many past attacks on SGX [44, §2.2.1]), with total privacy failure if violated.
The two-server (PS2) scheme instead relies on secure multiparty computation
between two servers, using garbled circuit. The two servers jointly serve as a
detector, and (shares of) signals are sent to both of them. Privacy holds as long
as these servers communicate but do not collude nor leak their secrets. Note that
in this model, if either of the servers is compromised and its data leaks, then
the other server can passively deduce the protected information (the recipient of
every message), even retroactively.
DoS Attacks and Key Linkability. Both FMD and PS do not provide sound-
ness guarantees if clues, or clue keys (public addresses), are generated mali-
ciously; they are thus subject to Denial-of-Service (DoS) attacks (see Sect. 7).
They also let detection queries be linked to each other, as well as to clue keys,
hence to public identities (see Sect. 8).
Retrieval. FMD originally addresses only the detection problem, but it natu-
rally extends to retrieval by attaching the full payload for each message; we use
this variant when we report the performance of FMD1 and FMD2 as retrieval
schemes. PS also addresses the detection problem, but we cannot directly add
payloads without breaking privacy; the PS schemes would need to be nontrivially
modiﬁed to collect and send the payloads in some privacy-preserving way.
2.2
Other Works
Private Retrieval. There are also works that deal with retrieval once indices are
already known, i.e., Private Information Retrieval (PIR) [19,36]. The keyword
PIR variant [6,18] assumes the client knows explicit plaintext keywords to search
for (similarly to PSS, discussed below). Some works [39,46,62] rely on trusted
hardware, such as Intel SGX, for retrieval privacy. Others oﬀer weak decoy-based
notions of privacy [27,32]. Our model does not make any of these assumptions
or relaxations.
Our construction shares some techniques with state-of-the-art batch PIR
protocols [4,5], namely homomorphic accumulation of messages using FHE and
linear coding. However, in our case the retrieved indices are not known a priori
to the recipient, so our scheme includes encoding and homomorphic decoding of
suitable clues, which are then used to guide the accumulation. Furthermore, we
use a diﬀerent coding technique, adapted to this setting.
Other Private Messaging Aspects. The complementary problem of main-
taining sender privacy when posting on the bulletin board is addressed by
Riposte [20], Signal’s Sealed Sender [42] and its improvement [45]. Alpenhorn
[38] addresses privacy-preserving connection establishment. As discussed in [7],

Oblivious Message Retrieval
759
Alpenhorn essentially uses identity-based encryption and a trusted server to
reduce that problem to the privacy-preserving message retrieval problem stud-
ied by this paper. The Vuvuzela [29] mixnet oﬀers diﬀerential privacy for sender
and receiver metadata. Rather than a bulletin board model, it assumes an online
model where users to remain connected at all times (lest their messages get
dropped). It employs a cluster of servers, of which at least one is assumed to be
honest. Bandwidth cost is high (e.g., 30 GB/month for users and 416 TB/month
for servers [29]).
Private Stream Search. Private Stream Search (PSS) was introduced by
Ostrovsky and Skeith [51] and followups [9,21,25]. It allows a client to search
a keyword over a database of documents and download the ones with such a
keyword without revealing the keyword to the server.
In terms of techniques, our use of homomorphic accumulation and linear
coding is shared also with PSS. However, in PSS, the elements being sought are
plaintext words, which allows for relatively simple protocols. In OMR, conversely,
the analogues are “clues” which must be randomly sampled and unlinkable,
to hide the identity of the recipients. Therefore, we employ FHE to compute
a complicated circuit for homomorphic decryption (and ampliﬁcation) before
retrieval, which creates very diﬀerent cost tradeoﬀs, optimizations and imple-
mentation details compared to PSS. Furthermore, the past PSS works mainly
focused on optimizing the communication cost, at the cost of very high server-
server computation (e.g., [25], using Reed-Solomon coding, has a server perform
do computation superlinear in the number of pertinent messages, for every bul-
letin message); we use diﬀerent coding techniques to attain practicality in the
OMR setting.
3
Model and Deﬁnitions
System Model. In this section, we deﬁne the model and the problem of Obliv-
ious Message Detection and Retrieval. The system components and their high-
level properties are as follows. See also the high-level components of Fig. 1 (but
disregard, for now, the detailed schemes like PVW or BFV; these will be intro-
duced in Sect. 6)
A bulletin board (or board for short), denoted BB, contains N messages (e.g.,
blockchain transactions). Each message is sent from some sender and addressed
to some recipient, whose identities are supposed to remain private.
A message is a pair (xi, ci) where xi is the payload to convey, and ci is a clue
which helps notify the intended recipient (and only them) that the message is
addressed to them.
We denote the payload space P = {0, 1}˜n for some ˜n ∈Z+, and the clue
space C (typically ℓnumber of ciphertexts in some encryption system). The
whole board BB (i.e., all payloads and clues) is public. (In applications, the
payloads will typically be end-to-end encrypted.)
At any time, any potential recipient p may retrieve the messages addressed to
them in BB. We call these messages pertinent (to p), and the rest are impertinent.

760
Z. Liu and E. Tromer
Fig. 1. System components, and major internal parts of the practical schemes.
A server, called a detector, helps the recipient p detect which message indices
in BB are pertinent to them, or retrieve the payloads of the pertinent messages.
This is done obliviously: even a malicious detector learns nothing about which
messages are pertinent. The recipient gives the detector their detection key, and
a bound ¯k on the number of pertinent messages they expect to receive. The
detector then accumulates all of the messages in BB into string M, called the
digest, and sends it to the recipient p. The digest M should be much smaller
than the board BB (ideally, proportional to ¯k).
The recipient p processes M to recover all of the pertinent messages with high
probability, assuming a semi-honest detector and that the number of pertinent
messages did not exceed ¯k. The false negative rate (probability that a pertinent
message is not recovered from the digest) is denoted by ϵn. The false positive rate
(probability that an impertinent message is output by the recovery procedure)
is denoted by ϵp. Both ϵn and ϵp are small (e.g., under 10−9).
There may be many detectors, and each may support many recipients. Out-
side our scope are application-speciﬁc aspects such as payload encryption, con-
tact discovery and key establishment, the privacy-preserving mechanism by
which messages are posted to the board, or how recipients subscribe with detec-
tors. See related discussion in Sects. 2 and 10.
Threat Model (Non-DoS). We assume a computationally-bounded adversary
that can read all public information, including all board messages, all public keys
in the system, and all communication between the detector and the receiver. It
can also honestly generate new messages (with any payload) and post them on
the board, as well as honestly generate new clue keys and induce other parties
to generate messages addressed to those keys. For soundness and completeness,
we require the detectors, senders, and recipients to be honest but curious; they
may collude by sharing information. In regard to privacy, we let all parties in the

Oblivious Message Retrieval
761
systems be malicious and colluding (including detectors, senders, and recipients),
except of course for the sender and recipient of the message(s) whose privacy is
to be protected. (A stronger Denial-of-Service (DoS) threat model will be deﬁned
in Sect. 7.1. Key unlinkability will be deﬁned in Sect. 8.)
3.1
Deﬁnitions
Oblivious Message Retrieval. We capture the notion of an Oblivious Message
Retrieval (OMR) scheme as follows.
Deﬁnition 1 (Oblivious Message Retrieval (OMR)).
An Oblivious Message Retrieval scheme has the following PPT algorithms:
– pp ←GenParams(1λ, ϵp, ϵn): takes a security parameter λ, a false positive
rate ϵp and a false negative rate ϵn, and outputs public parameters pp. pp is
implicitly taken by the following algorithms.
– (sk, pk = (pkclue, pkdetect)) ←KeyGen() : outputs a secret key sk and a public
key pk consisting of a clue key pkclue and a detection key pkdetect.
– c ←GenClue(pkclue, x) : takes a clue key and a payload x ∈P, and output a
clue c ∈C.
– M ←Retrieve(BB, pkdetect, ¯k) : takes as input a board BB = {(x1, c1), . . . ,
(xN, cN)} for some size N, a detection key pkdetect, and an upper bound ¯k on
the number of pertinent messages addressed to that recipient; and output a
digest M.
– PL ←Decode(M, sk) : takes the digest M and corresponding secret key sk,
and outputs either a decoded payload list PL ⊂Pk or an overﬂow indication
PL = overﬂow.
To deﬁne completeness, soundness, and privacy, we ﬁrst deﬁne the notion of
board generation:
Deﬁnition 2 (board generation).
Given pp, and N which is the number
of messages: Arbitrarily choose the number of recipients 1 ≤p ≤N, and
a partition of the set [N] into p subsets S1, . . . , Sp representing the indices
of messages addressed to each party. Also arbitrarily choose unique payloads
(x1, . . . , xN). For each recipient i ∈[p]: generate keys (ski, pki) ←KeyGen(),
and for each j ∈Si, generate cj ←GenClue(pki, xj). Then, output the board
BB = {(x1, c1), . . . , (xN, cN)}, the set S1, and (sk1, pk1 = (pkclue1, pkdetect1)).6
The scheme must satisfy the following properties:
– (Completeness) Let pp ←GenParams(1λ, ϵp, ϵn). Set any N = poly(λ), and
0 < ¯k ≤N. Let a board BB, a set S of pertinent messages, and a key
pair (sk, pk = (pkclue, pkdetect)) be generated as in Deﬁnition 2 for any choice
of p, partition and payloads therein. Let M ←Retrieve(BB, pkdetect, ¯k) and
PL ←Decode(M, sk). Let k = |S| (the number of pertinent messages in
6 That is, S1 is the indices of messages pertinent to the recipient whose keys are
sk1, pk1, which wlog is the ﬁrst recipient.

762
Z. Liu and E. Tromer
S). Then either k > ¯k and PL = overﬂow, or Pr[xj ∈PL | j ∈S] ≥
(1 −ϵn −negl(λ))
for all j ∈[N].
– (Soundness) For the same quantiﬁers as in Completeness: Pr[(xj ∈PL | j ̸∈
S) ∨(x ∈PL | x ̸∈(x1, . . . , xN))] ≤(ϵp + negl(λ))
for all j ∈[N].
– (Computational privacy) For any PPT adversary A = (A1, A2): let pp ←
GenParams(ϵp, ϵn), (sk, pk = (pkclue, pkdetect)) ←KeyGen() and (sk′, pk′ =
(pk′
clue, pk′
detect)) ←KeyGen(). Let the adversary choose a payload x and
remember its state: (x, st) ←A1(pp, pk, pk′). Let c ←GenClue(pkclue, x)
and c′ ←GenClue(pk′
clue, x). Then: |Pr[A2(st, c) = 1] −Pr[A2(st, c′) = 1]| ≤
negl(λ).
An OMR scheme is compact if it moreover satisﬁes the following:
– (Compactness) An OMR scheme is compact if for pp ←GenParams(1λ, ϵp, ϵn),
(sk, pk
=
(pkclue, pkdetect))
←
OMR.KeyGen(), for any board BB
=
{(x1, c1), . . . , (xN, cN)}, letting M ←Retrieve(BB, pkdetect, ¯k), it always holds
that: |M| = poly(λ, log N) · log ϵ−1
p
· ˜O(¯k + ϵpN).
Stronger Deﬁnitions. The above deﬁnition assumes that the board generation
is done honestly (though possibly adaptively). For maliciously generated board
(e.g., clues not form GenClue), see Sect. 7 for related attacks and a strengthening
that prevents them. For simplicity, we also assume the payloads (xi)i∈[N] are all
unique (cf. Deﬁnition 2), but it can be naturally extended to the case of duplicate
payloads.
Oblivious Message Detection. As a stepping stone towards OMR, we deﬁne
a weaker functionality, Oblivious Message Detection (OMD), in which the digest
merely enables detection of the indices of the pertinent messages, but doesn’t
convey the corresponding payloads. Instead of a function Retrieve(BB, pkdetect, ¯k)
that enables decoding the pertinent message payloads, OMD oﬀers a function
Detect(BB, pkdetect, ¯k) that enables decoding the pertinent message indices. Com-
pleteness then says that the index of each of the pertinent messages is included
in PL with probability ≥1 −ϵn −negl(λ). Soundness says that the index of each
non-pertinent message is included in PL with probability ≤ϵp + negl(λ).
4
Preliminaries
Notation. All logarithms are expressed in base 2 if not indicated otherwise. Let
[n] denote the set {1., . . . , n}, and let [n, m] denote the set {n, ..., m}. We use
P(. . . ; s) to denote a randomized algorithm P running with randomness s. Our
big-O notation, when applied to computational and communication complexity,
absorbs the security parameter λ and payload size ˜n as a constant. When we
use a pseudorandom function (PRF), we assume that its range is as implied by
the context (i.e., that the PRF’s outputs are computationally indistinguishable
from uniform over that range). We use ⟨i⟩sk to denote the space of ciphertexts
that decrypt to i under sk.

Oblivious Message Retrieval
763
4.1
LWE Encryption
Our constructions will be optimized by using lattice-based encryption. We will
use the PVW [54] variant of Regev’s LWE-based encryption [57], deﬁned as
follows at a high level, and details in full version.
The public parameters
ppLWE = (n, ℓ, w, q, σ) ←PVW.GenParams(1λ, ℓ, q, σ) contain secret key dimen-
sion n, the number of LWE samples in the public key w, noise standard deviation
σ, ciphertext modulus q, and number of bits of the plaintext modulus ℓ. (ppLWE
is assumed to be implicitly taken by the other algorithms.)
For key generation (sk, pk)
←
PVW.KeyGen() and encryption ct
=
(⃗a,⃗b) ←PVW.Enc(pk, ⃗m)). Most crucial is the decryption algorithm ⃗m ←
PVW.Dec(sk, ct = (⃗a,⃗b)), which will be evaluated homomorphically. It computes
ℓinner products ⃗d = ⃗b −skT⃗a ∈Zℓ
q and outputs ⃗m ∈Zℓ
2 where mi = 1 if
⌈q/4⌉≤b[i] < ⌈3q/4⌉and mi = 0 otherwise.
PVW is unconditionally correct (sound), and under the standard Learning
With Error (LWE) hardness assumption [3,57] it fulﬁlls the standard deﬁnitions
of semantic security (IND-CPA) and key privacy.
4.2
Homomorphic Encryption
Fully Homomorphic Encryption (FHE) enables evaluation of a circuit on
encrypted data, such that the resulting ciphertext (when decrypted) is the out-
put of the circuit on the data, but the evaluator learns nothing about the data.
Formally, an (asymmetric) FHE scheme is an encryption with PPT algo-
rithms GenParams(1λ), KeyGen(), Enc(pk, m), Dec(sk, c) fulﬁlling the standard
deﬁnitions of semantic security, soundness, and key privacy. Moreover, it has two
more PPT algorithms: Eval(pk, (ct1, . . . , ctk), C), Recrypt(pk, ct). Recrypt func-
tion is as deﬁned in [26], i.e., it decrypts homomorphically using the encrypted
secret key, thus yielding a fresh re-encryption of the original plaintext. These
two new algorithms fulﬁll the following generalized correctness. Given a circuit
C and plaintexts (m1, ..., mk), ciphertexts (ct1, ..., cik) which are each either
cti ←FHE.Enc(pk, mi) or cti ←FHE.Recrypt(pk, FHE.Enc(pk, mi)), and let-
ting ct′ ←FHE.Eval(pk, C, (ct1, ..., ctk)): Pr[FHE.Dec(sk, ct′) = C(m1, ..., mk)] ≥
1 −negl(λ). We require an additional property for the FHE scheme:
Deﬁnition 3 (Wrong-Key Decryption). For an FHE scheme with plaintext
space Zt, and t
≥
2, letting (sk, pk)
←
FHE.KeyGen(1λ) and (sk′, pk′)
←
FHE.KeyGen(1λ), ct ←FHE.Enc(pk, 1), and m′ ←FHE.Dec(sk′, FHE.Recrypt
(pk′, ct)), it holds that: Pr[m′ = 1] ≤1/t + negl(λ).
BFV
Encryption. We use the Brakerski/Fan-Vercauteran homomorphic
encryption scheme [13,24], which we refer to as the BFV scheme. Given a poly-
nomial from the cyclotomic ring Rt = Zt[X]/(XD+1), the BFV scheme encrypts
it into a ciphertext consisting of two polynomials, where each polynomial is from
Rq = Zq[X]/(XD + 1) where q > t. We refer to t, q, and D as the plaintext
modulus, the ciphertext modulus, and the ring dimension, respectively. Each

764
Z. Liu and E. Tromer
ciphertext can pack D plaintext group elements (m1, . . . , mD) ∈ZD
t , and “sin-
gle instruction, multiple data” (SIMD) homomorphic operations can be applied.
BFV is unconditionally correct (sound), and under the standard Ring-LWE
(RLWE) [43,55] hardness assumption it fulﬁlls semantic security (IND-CPA).
5
Generic OMR and OMD Using FHE
5.1
Oblivious Message Detection Using FHE
We start by constructing Oblivious Message Detection (OMD), with retrieval
to be added in Sect. 5.2 This section’s constructions will be based on general
fully homomorphic encryption (FHE), and assume all the clues are generated
honestly. This serves as a simple proof of theoretical possibility; Sect. 6 will
address practicality and stronger security guarantees.
Non-compact Construction of OMD. We start by showing how pertinent
messages can be detected, with a small digest, using any key-private public-key
FHE satisfying Deﬁnition 3 (e.g., FHEW/TFHE [16,22]). For simplicity, assume
the plaintext space is Z2.7 Our didactic starting point is a straightforward, non-
compact construction; we then improve it to achieve compactness.
High-Level Idea. Each clue ci for i ∈[N] consists of ℓciphertexts, each
encrypting the constant 1 under the public key of the party this message is
addressed to. The detector, serving recipient p, will use p’s FHE public key pk
to recrypt all the ciphertexts in all the clues: ci,j →c′
i,j for j ∈[ℓ]. Crucially, note
that each such c′
i,j will be ⟨1⟩sk if the message is addressed to p, and otherwise
be 1 with probability ≤1/2 + negl(λ) when decrypted by sk, the correspond-
ing secret key for the recipient p (by Deﬁnition 3). Thus, for each message, The
detector performs an AND gate over all c′
i,j (j ∈[ℓ]) to get PVi (the Pertinency
Vector) for all i ∈[N]. Then the detector sends PV vector to the recipient. The
recipient decrypts each PVi using its FHE secret key, and if the result is 1, deems
the i-th message pertinent.
The resulting OMD algorithm OMDt1 pseudocode and analysis is deferred
to the full version.
Theorem 1. The scheme OMDt1 is an Oblivious Message Detection scheme,
when instantiated with any fully homomorphic encryption scheme.
Compact Construction of OMD. Our next step is to achieve compactness,
i.e., a digest size which depends primarily on the number of pertinent messages k,
rather than the total number of messages N. Since k itself is a private information
that should not be exposed, the digest size (and detector’s computation) instead
7 The following naturally generalizes to plaintext space Zt for any prime t. For brevity,
we kept this section focused on Z2, which suﬃces for its results, and added footnotes
to clarify the generalization. Section 6 will use t > 2.

Oblivious Message Retrieval
765
need to depend on an upper bound ¯k on the number of pertinent messages k for
the particular recipient (see Deﬁnition 1). The bound ¯k is given as a parameter
to the detector.8
The technique used here is reminiscent of that used in [51], where homomor-
phic operations are used to summarize “documents” according to 0/1 encryp-
tions; in our case the 0/1 encryptions are indirectly derived by homomorphic
computation (as above), and the (implicit) “documents” are our message indices.
High-Level Idea. We start as above, with the detector recrypting these and
computing PVi ciphertexts which are ⟨1⟩sk iﬀthe i-th message is pertinent w.h.p.
Then, we create m buckets, for some m > ¯k (to be ﬁxed later). Each bucket
contains an accumulator Acci containing a value in ZN encrypted under pk,
represented as a vector of ⌈log(N)⌉ciphertexts of FHE that store the bit-wise
binary encoding of the ZN element.9 A bucket also contains a counter Ctri∈[m],
where Ctri contains a value in Z¯k encrypted under pk, represented using binary
encoding as well. All buckets and counters initially encrypt 0.
To add the i-th message in the board, the detector computes PVi as in
OMDt1, draws a random bucket index μ ∈[m], and homomorphically adds PVi
to counter Ctrμ in Z¯k. It also homomorphically computes PVi and adds it to the
accumulator Accμ.
Finally, the detector sends all buckets and counters to the recipient. The
recipient decrypts these and checks: if the decrypted Ctrμ is 1, then bucket has a
single pertinent message mapped to it, and the decrypted Accμ gives the index
of that message. If any Ctrμ decrypts to greater than 1, indicating that several
pertinent messages collided in the μ-th bucket, then it outputs overﬂow.
This method gives us a success rate of ρ = ¯k−1
i=1
(m−i)
m
. To achieve the desired
ϵn, we amplify by repeating this C times with fresh buckets and counters and
re-randomized assignment of messages to buckets, such that (1 −ρ)C < ϵn.
Our technique is diﬀerent from bloom ﬁlter as used in [17,21]. With bloom
ﬁlter, the recipient runtime can easily be O(N), and for polylog(N) cost, there
is an extra false positive rate, which can be avoided using our technique.
Gathering Partial Information. The ampliﬁcation can be optimized as fol-
lows. Even when a set of buckets contains collisions and thus doesn’t directly
decode to give all pertinent message indices, there will likely be some buckets
in the set that do yield useful information (i.e., the corresponding counters are
⟨1⟩sk). If we gather all such partial information together, we may get the full
information. Then, the failure probability is < 1 −¯k−1
i=1 (1 −( i
m)C).
Parameter Analysis. The scheme requires choice of m and C. If we choose
m = 10¯k, we can then choose the smallest integer C such that 1 −¯k−1
i=1 (1 −
(
i
10¯k)C) ≤ϵn. We can see that C = O(log(¯k) log(1/ϵn)) by using union bound.
We get similar results for any choice of m > k that is linear in k.
8 If the actual number of pertinent messages k exceeds the assumed bound ¯k, then
retrieval may fail. The recipient can detect overﬂow and ask for the detection to be
redone with a larger ¯k. Our scheme gives the exact number of k, as discussed below.
9 For FHE over Zt, use ⌈logt(N)⌉ciphertexts per bucket.

766
Z. Liu and E. Tromer
Decoding k. We add a global counter for the total number of pertinent mes-
sages, Ttl, represented as ⌈log(N)⌉ciphertexts of FHE containing the bit-wise
binary representation of k ∈ZN. The detector homomorphically sums all PV’s
into Ttl to let the recipient learn the number of pertinent messages, k.
We construct a compact OMD algorithm OMDt2 using the techniques men-
tioned above. Pseudocode and analysis of OMDt2 and the proof of the following
theorem are deferred to the full version.
Theorem 2. The scheme OMDt2 is a compact Oblivious Message Detection
scheme, when instantiated with any fully homomorphic encryption scheme FHE
and a PRF f.
This construction satisﬁes the asymptotic requirements of compact OMR (com-
pleteness, soundness, privacy, and compactness). Additional asymptotic opti-
mizations are possible and deferred to the full version. The above is still far
from concrete practicality (see end of Sect. 5), as will be addressed in Sect. 6.
5.2
Payload Retrieval Using FHE
An OMD scheme, like the one above, lets the recipient learn the indices of the
messages addressed to it in the board. It would then still need to retrieve the
content (or payload) of those messages, and (in our motivating applications)
do so privately without revealing which messages were of interest. As discussed
in Sect. 2, retrieval with current methods after obtaining the indices is either
ineﬃcient or non-private.
We thus extend the above OMD scheme to Oblivious Message Retrieval,
starting with a simple construction from generic FHE below, and improving it in
Sect. 6. Our approach embeds techniques from PSS [9,21,25,51] and multi-query
PIR [4,5] (see Sect. 2.2) into the detector’s operation, without an extra round-
trip to the client. Speciﬁcally, we use the encrypted 0/1 pertinency bits, derived
above, to extract the pertinent payloads using homomorphic multiplication; we
then compress these using homomorphically-evaluated linear codes. As discussed
in Sect. 2.2, these techniques require substantial adaptations for eﬃciency in
OMD/OMR. The generic OMR approach is detailed below, ﬁrst as an ineﬃcient
construction based on generic FHE (as a didactic stepping stone), and then with
major optimizations (Sect. 6).
Single
Pertinent
Message. Our starting point is the above OMDt1
construction.
The
detector’s
procedure
OMR.Retrieve
ﬁrst
runs
PV
←
OMDt1.Detect(D, pk, ¯k, ϵn), to obtain a pertinency vector PV of N ciphertexts,
each encrypting 1 or 0. It then proceeds as follows.
Consider ﬁrst the simple scenario where, throughout the board, there is a
single message xz that is pertinent for the recipient p (but z is initially unknown).
Hence, PV has a single ⟨1⟩sk ciphertext, and the rest are ⟨0⟩sk.
Let the payload space P be represented by a tuple of FHE’s plaintext space
(i.e., for P = {0, 1}˜n and the plaintext space Z2, we use ˜n ciphertexts to represent

Oblivious Message Retrieval
767
each payload). In the following we generalize the FHE.Enc, FHE.Eval, and ⟨·⟩sk
notation to work on such tuples in the natural way, as vector operations over Z2.
For each i ∈[N], multiply xi by PVi homomorphically to get a ciphertext tuple
x′
i. Thus, x′
z ∈⟨xz⟩sk, and x′
i ∈⟨0⟩sk for i ∈[N] for the rest of the ciphertext
tuples (i ̸= z). Then, homomorphically sum up all x′
i to get a ciphertext tuple
M ′, so that M ′ ∈⟨xz⟩sk. The detector sends this M ′ to the recipient, who
decrypts it to obtain the payload xz.
Multiple Pertinent Messages via Random Linear Coding. We generalize
the above to the case of k pertinent messages, where 0 ≤k ≤¯k. The cap ¯k is
chosen by the recipient and given to the detector, but does not need to be known
(or even ﬁxed) when the board messages are generated.
The above single-message scheme fails if there are multiple pertinent mes-
sages, because the detector would output the encrypted sum of the k pertinent
payloads, from which the individual payloads cannot be (in general) recovered.
However, we can have the detector compute several encrypted combinations of
the pertinent plaintexts, each one summing them with diﬀerent weights, in hope
of creating a linear system that the recipient can solve.
Speciﬁcally, we will choose some m ≥¯k and have the detector homomorphi-
cally compute encrypted payload m combinations Cmbj ←
i∈[N](wi,j ·xi)·PVi
for j ∈[m], using random weights wi,j (i ∈[N], j ∈m).10 Letting PS ⊆[N]
denote the k pertinent message indices, we then have Cmbj ∈
 
i∈PS wi,j ·xi

sk.
The combinations are realized as FHE ciphertext tuples big enough to rep-
resent P, with element-wise operations, i.e., as a vector space over the ﬁeld
GF(t) of the plaintext space (in our case, of binary plaintext space: ˜n binary
ciphertexts, with bitwise AND and XOR).
The OMR digest includes the aforementioned output of OMDt1.Detect, from
which the recipient can recover PS. Moreover the recipient can know the weights
wi,j (by including the seed used to pseudorandomly generate the weights in
the digest). Then the recipient can decrypt the payload combinations and
recover m equations over the variables (xi)i∈PS, of the form 
i∈PS wi,jxi =
FHE.Dec(Cmbj) ∈
 
i∈PS wi,j · xi

sk
for j ∈[¯k]. If |PS| = k of these equa-
tions are linearly independent, then the recipient can use Gaussian elimination
to recover these xi, i.e., the pertinent messages’ payloads.
For randomly-chosen weights in the ﬁeld GF(t) (in our case t = 2), the
probability of getting ¯k linearly independent equations is m
i=m−¯k+1(1 −1/ti),
via [58, Lemma 1]. Therefore, m = ¯k + ⌈logt( 1
ϵn )⌉suﬃces.
5.3
Improved Retrieval Using SRLC
In the above attempt, the detector’s computational cost for preparing the pay-
load combinations is proportional to ¯k · N. To reduce this cost, we use Sparse
10 Here multiplication is in the ﬁeld GF(2), for the plaintext space Z2, so the weights
are just 0 or 1. In general, this works over GF(t) for prime t. From this point on we
will require both multiplications and addition (to perform linear algebra), and thus
consider the ﬁeld GF(t) instead of the group Zt.

768
Z. Liu and E. Tromer
Random Linear Coding (SRLC) [34], encoded homomorphically. SRLC is widely
studied and applied to data transmission [15,34,35,60].11
In this approach, we create weighted linear combinations as above, but we
make them sparse: each message is assigned to just a few combinations (i.e., most
of the weights wi,j are chosen as zero). We provide the following two schemes for
SRLC to ensure that the resulting combinations are still linearly independent
(thus solvable by the recipient) with high probability.
SRLC1: Analytically-Bounded SRLC. For SRLC1, each weight is chosen
as nonzero with probability γ/m, where γ is some SRLC parameter and m
is the number of combinations. To ensure that the resulting combinations are
solvable for k < ¯k variables with probability greater than 1 −ϵn, provably γ =
O(¯k log2 ¯k log(ϵ−1
n )) and m = O(γ · ¯k) suﬃce.
SRLC2: Empirically-Bounded SRLC. In this scheme, we uniformly choose
exactly γ nonzero weights among the m combinations. The choice of γ and m
is done by an empirical estimation procedure (in the absence of tight analytical
bounds), and we prove that the estimation error is negligible.
Compact OMR using SRLC. We can construct a compact OMR scheme
using SRLC, following the intuition of Sects. 5.2 and 5.3. The resulting algorithm
OMRt1 pseudocode is deferred to the full version. The following theorem is
proven, and complexity analyzed, in the full version:
Theorem 3. The scheme OMRt1 is a Oblivious Message Retrieval scheme,
when instantiated with any fully homomorphic encryption scheme FHE, PRFs
f, and SRLC scheme SRLC. Moreover, when instantiated with SRLC1, OMRt1
is also compact.
(Im)practicality. The above establishes the asymptotic existence of compact
OMR (assuming existence of FHE), but it is still impractical, e.g., due to the
cost of the Recrypt algorithm in state-of-the-art FHE schemes [13,14,16,22,24].
Moreover, the clues are large (e.g., FHEW/TFHE needs 512 bytes per each of
the ∼20 plaintext bits required in Sect. 5.1).
6
Practical OMR
We proceed to introduce optimizations that improve communication and com-
putation costs to practical levels, as well as security improvements. See Sect. 9
below for implementation and quantitative evaluation.
Our starting point is the generic FHE construction of Sect. 5, generalized
from plaintext space Z2 to Zt for prime t ≥2 (as discussed in footnotes whenever
pertinent). The generalization immediately gives us improved concrete bounds
on false positive rate, and in the SRLC-based retrieval. We then proceed to
modify the scheme as follows.
11 State-of-the-art batch-PIR [4,5] uses diﬀerent coding techniques, which rely on the
client knowing the pertinent indices a priori.

Oblivious Message Retrieval
769
6.1
PVW Clue Ciphertext
Instead of generating clues using encryption under an FHE scheme, we use a
lighter-weight encryption scheme which can still be homomorphically decrypted
and processed by the detector. Speciﬁcally, we use the PVW scheme [54], a vari-
ant of the Regev05 LWE-based encryption scheme [57]. See Sect. 4.1 for details.
PVW decryption can be cheaply evaluated under FHE (we discuss in more detail
later), and moreover its ciphertext size grows slowly when multiple bits are
encrypted (to encrypt ℓbits, clue size using PVW grows with O(n + ℓ), com-
pared to O(n·ℓ) in the original Regev05 scheme [57], where n is a predetermined
LWE parameter to be discussed below). Choice of PVW parametersdeferred to
the full version. The switch to PVW maintains the OMD/OMR privacy require-
ment, since PVW is IND–CPA and key-private by [28] and [54, Lemma 7.4].
6.2
BFV Leveled Homomorphic Encryption
In the detection and retrieval algorithm, we also replace FHE with leveled HE,
i.e., homomorphic encryption restricted to evaluation of arithmetic circuits with
predetermined multiplicative depth. This suﬃces since, as shown below, the mul-
tiplicative depth can be kept low and moreover, after the switch to PVW encryp-
tion, we do not need Recrypt. Speciﬁcally, we use the BFV [13,24] scheme (see
Sect. 4.2).
The detection key now contains the BFV public key, and the PVW secret key
PVW.sk encrypted under BFV public key. The detector uses these to homomor-
phically decrypt the clue, resulting in PVi which are ⟨0⟩BFV
sk
or ⟨1⟩BFV
sk
. It then
proceed to process these into a digest as in Sect. 5, using BFV homomorphic
operations, all with plaintext space GF(t).
One advantage of this choice is that BFV supports “single instruction, mul-
tiple data” (SIMD) operations: each BFV ciphertext has D slots, each of which
can convey an element of Zt, for some plaintext modulus t and a parameter D.
When computing PV, we can thus operate on D separate messages {(xi, ci)} in
parallel via SIMD (see Sect. 4.2).
Speciﬁcally, the detector performs the following steps to homomorphically
perform PVW.Dec (described intuitively here, and precisely in the full ver-
sion). Note that for simplicity when decrypting homomorphically using BFV,
we redeﬁne our clues to be PVW encryptions of 0 instead of 1 as above (i.e.
PVW.Dec(skp′, GenClue(pkp, ·)) = 0 iﬀp = p′ w.h.p.).
– Inner Product (InnerProd). The detector performs the ﬁrst step of
PVW.Dec: inner product of the clue’s PVW ciphertext with PVW.sk (that
is provided by the recipient under BFV encryption).
– Range checking (RangeCheck). For a range [−r, r] and plaintext element
u ∈Zt, this maps u to 0 if u ∈[−r, r], otherwise to 1. We implement this homo-
morphically using [33, Equation 2] as follows, using the Paterson-Stockmeyer
algorithm [53] to minimize multiplicative depth. To evaluate the function f(x)
where fr(x) = 0 for t −r ≤x ≤r, and f(x) = 1 otherwise, we can evaluate

770
Z. Liu and E. Tromer
the following polynomial over Zt:
RCr(X) = fr(0) −
t−1

i=0
Xi
t−1

a=0
fr(a)at−1−i .
(1)
We thus calculate u′ ←RCr(u) homomorphically, so u′ ∈⟨1⟩BFV
sk
iﬀu ∈[−r, r]
(which is the case for pertinent messages with high probability). An exact
implementation of PVW.Dec would require r = t/4 (by deﬁnition of PVW in
Sect. 4.1), but this can be relaxed to reduce ϵp, since the error distribution is
Gaussian.
– PV Unpacking (PVUnpack). Because we used SIMD evaluation, the above
steps result in a single ciphertext ct whose D slots encode u′ ∈{0, 1} values
of D diﬀerent messages. This already suﬃces as a digest, but to maintain a
clean interface and allow further improvements below, we proceed to unpack
ct’s slots into separate D ciphertexts (PVi)i∈[D].
Between RangeCheck and PVUnpack, we ﬂip the sign of u′ (u′ ←1 −u′) so that
after all these steps, we get PVi ciphertexts encrypting 1 in all slots for the
pertinent messages, and 0 in all slots for impertinent messages with some false
positive rate. Similarly to Sect. 5, we proceed as follows.
Soundness Ampliﬁcation. Analogously to in Sect. 5.1, we reduce this false
positive rate by having the sender encrypt ℓ0’s to the recipient’s clue key (in this
case: all in a single ℓ-bit PVW ciphertext). Note that here, the probability of a
clue ciphertext decrypting to 0 (so that the range-checked output is PV ∈⟨1⟩BFV
sk
)
for impertinent messages is p = 1 −(2r + 1)/q ≥1/2, rather than 1/2 as in the
Z2 case. Therefore, using ℓciphertexts, we get ϵp of pℓ.
Applying all of the above, we obtain and OMD scheme analogous to OMDt2,
but based on PVW clues and BFV scheme instead of generic FHE, thereby
improving eﬃciency and size. The same technique applies toOMDt1, for more
eﬃcient compact detection.
Finally, compress the detection digest by one of two means.
Deterministic Digest Compression. Each BFV ciphertext can pack D ele-
ments of Zt, each of which can represent ⌊log(t)⌋bits of plaintext information.
We pack the single-bit pertinency indicators into these bits, homomorphically.
This makes near-optimal use of the plaintext space; and in terms of digest size,
utilization remains high: roughly 4.5 bit/msg, for the representative parame-
ters of Sect. 9. The recipient can sum up all these bits to get the exact number
of pertinent messages, and thus robustly detects overﬂow.
Randomized Digest Compression. Alternatively, we can use the bucket-
based method in Sect. 5.1 to achieve an compact digest, and compress D accu-
mulators into one ciphertext to fully utilize all D slots in each ciphertext. In
particular, we can achieve an amortized digest size of less than 1 bit/msg,
including retrieval, for suﬃciently large N ≫¯k. See performance in Sect. 9.
For this methodwe could also use the summation of individual bucket coun-
ters to get k, but this may still overﬂow if the number of pertinent messages is

Oblivious Message Retrieval
771
huge, since each slot is computed homomorphically in the plaintext space Zt
(e.g. if k ≳tD, where tD > 1012 for typical parameters).12
OMD via Deterministic Digest Compression. We can use deterministic
digest compression to construct a non-compact OMD, which we call OMDp1.
The advantage of this method is that it does not need PVUnpack, and therefore
greatly reduces the detector running time.
6.3
A Practical OMR Scheme
Figure 1 portrays the high-level components of the resulting scheme, and their
invocation of diﬀerent encryption schemes.
By combining all of the above detection optimizations, and adding message
retrieval analogously to Sect. 5.3, we have a practical OMR scheme OMRp1. Here
we use the aforementioned Deterministic Digest Compression, which is simpler
than compact (randomized) detection, and oﬀers better concrete digest size and
detection time for some parameter choices (cf. Sect. 9). The resulting pseudocode
is deferred to the full version. The following theorem is proven, and complexity
analyzed, deferred to the full version:
Theorem 4. The scheme OMRp1 is an OMR scheme, assuming security of
PVW encryption (Sect. 4.2), security of BFV leveled HE (Sect. 4.2), when instan-
tiated with PRF f and an SRLC scheme SRLC.
6.4
A Practical Compact OMR Scheme
While OMRp1 above is practically eﬃcient for many parameters of interest
(cf. Sect. 9), its asymptotic digest size is still O(N). An alternative approach
achieves compactness, i.e., a digest size that grows only mildly with N when
¯k is ﬁxed and ϵp is small (cf. Deﬁnition 1). This can be achieved by using the
Randomized Digest Compression approach of Sect. 6.2. The resulting practical
and compact OMR algorithm, OMRp2, and the pseudocode is deferred to the
full version. The following theorem is proven, and complexity analyzed, details
deferred to the full version:
Theorem 5. The scheme OMRp2 in OMRp2 is a OMR scheme for N < D·t/2,
assuming security of LWE encryption (Sect. 4.2) and security of BFV leveled HE
(Sect. 4.2), when instantiated with PRF f and an SRLC scheme SRLC. Moreover
when instantiated with SRLC1, OMRp2 is also compact.
6.5
Additional Properties
Additional modiﬁcations improve the practicality of our algorithm. The following
points are salient; further discussion is deferred to the full version.
12 If such parameters are exceeded, we can avoid undetected decoding failures using a
global counter that represents values in [N] without overﬂow.

772
Z. Liu and E. Tromer
Streaming Updates. The detector can break up OMR.Retrieve into several
phases and some of the phases can be done on-the-ﬂy without receiving ¯k
from the recipient. With this process, we can greatly reduce the latency during
retrieval. We defer the details to the full version. Security requires seed secrecy.
For details see the paper’s full version.
Handling Overﬂows. Retrieval may fail in case the number k of pertinent
messages overﬂows the bound ¯k. The possibility is inherent, since information-
theoretically, a compact digest for a given ¯k cannot represent k ≫¯k messages.
When an overﬂow occurs, the recipient can robustly detect it and sends another
retrieval query to the detector, with a larger bound ¯k. To prevent the linka-
bility of the two queries, the recipient can issue the second query from a fresh
anonymized network connection, and using unlinkable keys (see Sect. 8).
Detection Key Size Reduction. The detection key includes the BFV cipher-
texts ctpvwSK encrypting skpvw, and the BFV public keys (including encryption
key, relinearization key, and rotation keys as in [37, §5.6]). Their size is O(1),
but concretely quite large (cf. Sect. 9). We reduce it as follows.
First, all of the aforementioned components are RLWE ciphertexts of the
form (⃗a,⃗b), generated by the recipient who knows the corresponding RLWE
secret key, and who can thus choose a pseudorandom ⃗a that is represented as a
short PRG seed, thereby halving the ciphertext size. Second, we pack the n · ℓ
elements of ctpvwSK into just ℓBFV ciphertexts, and involve homomorphic rota-
tion to compute the inner products. Third, the detection key size is dominated
by the rotation keys in used for the homomorphic evaluation of slot rotations,
and most of them can be generated for a low multiplicative level.
7
Denial-of-Service Resistance
Thus far we have assumed, as in prior works, that all clues in the board are gen-
erated honestly by the prescribed GenClue algorithm, using honestly-generated
clue keys. However, clues may be generated maliciously, especially if anyone is
allowed to add messages to the board in reality.
In a Denial of Service (DoS) attack on an OMR or OMD scheme, the adver-
sary can maliciously generate any of the clues in board messages, in an attempt
to induce false positives or false negatives in the subsequent detection/retrieval.
The adversary could simply create pertinent messages for some recipient, thus
trying to induce an overﬂow for that recipient (by exceeding their ¯k); this is
inevitable and handled in Sect. 6.5. But the bigger danger is ampliﬁed DoS: even
a single maliciously-crafted clue could cause catastrophic failure (e.g., causing
false negative or positives for many recipients). Furthermore, the adversary may
also take the role of a recipient in the system, and publish a maliciously-crafted
clue key, thereby inducing honest senders to unwittingly generate harmful clues.
Attacks. OMRt1, instantiated with FHEW/TFHE, is susceptible to a wildcard
ciphertext attack, where a malicious sender populates the clue with ciphertexts
that decrypt to 1 (hence detected as pertinent) for most recipients, causing

Oblivious Message Retrieval
773
overﬂows. FMD [7] is also vulnerable to wildcard ciphertexts, as also observed by
[40, commit e19b99112e]. PS [44] is likewise vulnerable to wildcard ciphertexts
(in the single-server version). Moreover, in the PS model, signals are sent to
servers rather than placed on the board, opens an additional DoS attack vector.
For instance, a malicious sender can send many pertinent-looking signals to a
server to overﬂow the message accumulator for recipients.
7.1
Modeling DoS Resistance
DoS Threat Model. In the DoS threat model, the computationally bounded
adversary has all the power as deﬁned in Sect. 3. Additionally, it is allowed to
generate any (perhaps malformed) clues and post them on the board, as well
as generate any (perhaps malformed) clue keys for other senders to use. Thus,
for correctness and soundness, we assume only that the detector is honest but
curious. Other parties are malicious. As before, for privacy, everyone but the
message’s sender and recipient are assumed malicious and colluding.
DoS Resistance Deﬁnition. We introduce a formal deﬁnition of DoS resis-
tance, strengthening the OMR deﬁnition of Sect. 3.1. Recall that Deﬁni-
tion 1assumes that the clues in the board are honestly generated, using honestly
generated clue keys. In that case, there is a natural ground-truth notion of per-
tinent messages, deﬁned by which clue key pkclue each clue was generated for;
hence soundness and completeness are deﬁned in reference to that ground truth.
Now, however, clues may be maliciously generated and may not obviously
correspond to any speciﬁc clue key (e.g., consider the wildcard ciphertext above).
We thus require the existence of an indicator predicate I(c, pkclue) that serves as
a ground truth for whether a given clue c is pertinent to a given user speciﬁed by
their clue key pkclue. This predicate should give the natural answer for honestly-
generated clues and arbitrary but determined answer for otherwise-generated
clues (i.e., not claiming more than one honest recipient, except with small prob-
ability) and we call this property collision resistance. The stronger completeness
and soundness are deﬁned w.r.t such an indicator.
Soundness and completeness are then redeﬁned w.r.t the indicator I, as
below. Note that to facilitate tight analysis, the completeness (false negative
rate) bound ϵn in the deﬁnition is broken up into two components: the rate ϵi at
which the indicator fails to detect truly pertinent messages (which may be non-
negligible because a indicator with high thresholds may help achieve collision
resistance), and the rate ϵn −ϵi at which the scheme fails to retrieve messages
ﬂagged by the indicator (which may be on-negligible because of error sources in
the concrete scheme).
Deﬁnition 4 (DoS-resistant OMR). Let OMR be an OMR scheme for error
rates ϵn, ϵp (as in Deﬁnition 1). An indicator with an indicator false negative rate
ϵi ≤ϵn for OMR is a function b ←I(pp, x, c, pkclue, sk) on a public parameter pp,
a message (x, c), a clue key pkclue, and its corresponding secret key sk, outputs
b ∈{0, 1}, such that:

774
Z. Liu and E. Tromer
– (Indicator completeness) For pp ←GenParams(1λ, ϵp, ϵn), honest-generated
key pair (sk, pk = (pkclue, ·)) ←KeyGen(), for any payload x, and honest-
generated clue c ←OMR.GenClue(pkclue, x), it holds that:
Pr[I(pp, x, c, pkclue, sk) = 1] ≥1 −ϵi −negl(λ) .
– (Collision resistance) For any PPT adversary A, let pp ←GenParams(1λ, ϵp,
ϵn), two honest-generated key pairs (sk, pk = (pkclue, ·)) ←OMR.KeyGen() and
(sk′, pk′ = (pk′
clue, ·)) ←OMR.KeyGen(), and adversarially-generated (x, c) ←
A(pk, pk′), for b ←I(pp, x, c, pkclue, sk) and b′ ←I(pp, x, c, pk′
clue, sk′):
Pr[b = 1 ∧b′ = 1] ≤ϵp + negl(λ) .
An OMR scheme OMR is DoS-resistant for ϵn and ϵp if there exists an
indicator I with an indicator false negative rate ϵi for OMR such that for any
PPT adversary A, for pp ←GenParams(1λ, ϵp, ϵn), (sk, pk = (pkclue, pkdetect)) ←
OMR.KeyGen(), and adversarially-generated board BB ←A(pp, pk) where BB =
( (x1, c1), . . . , (xN, cN) ) and (xi)i∈[N] are unique, for any 0 < ¯k ≤N, letting
M ←Retrieve(D, pkdetect, ¯k), PL ←Decode(M, sk):
– (DoS-completeness) Let k = N
i=0 I(pp, xi, ci, pkclue, sk). Then either k > ¯k
and PL = overﬂow, or Pr[xj ∈PL | I(pp, x, c, pkclue, sk) = 1] ≥1 −(ϵn −ϵi) −
negl(λ) for all j ∈[N].
– (DoS-soundness) Pr[xj ∈PL | I(pp, x, c, pkclue, sk) = 0] ≤negl(λ) for all
j ∈[N].
Note that DoS-completeness implies the (weaker) completeness of Deﬁnition 1
with the same false negative rate ϵn, and DoS-soundness implies the (weaker)
soundness of Deﬁnition 1 with false positive rate ϵp +ϵn. Completeness is trivial,
and soundness is given by the following lemma (proof deferred to the full version):
Lemma 1. Any tuple of algorithms OMR that is ϵp-DoS-sound by Deﬁnition 4
is (ϵp + ϵn)-sound by Deﬁnition 1.
The proof of Lemma 1 is deferred to the full version.
The Oblivious Message Detection deﬁnition is analogously strengthened for DoS.
7.2
Attaining DoS-Resistant OMR
The OMRp1 scheme of Sect. 6 already satisﬁes DoS resistance (for ϵp = poly(λ),
with a minor change, under the natural computational assumption stated
in
Conjecture 1 below). Intuitively, this is because PVW encryption has the prop-
erty that a ciphertext that decrypts to 0 can be generated by adding up columns
of the public key, but if the ciphertext is generated in any other way (e.g., from
a diﬀerent public key, or “out of the blue”), then its decryption is close to uni-
formly random.

Oblivious Message Retrieval
775
Patched OMRp1. The exception to the above intuition is trivial ciphertexts
(i.e., ciphertext (⃗a = 0n,⃗b ∈Zℓ
q)), so we redeﬁne the clue space as {(⃗a,⃗b) ∈
Zn+ℓ
q
: ⃗a ̸= 0n}. Accordingly, we change OMRp1.Retrieve to reject clues where
⃗a = 0n and OMRp1.GenClue such that if generates a clue with ⃗a = 0n, it retries
with fresh randomness (and aborts after λ attempts).
Using the patch above, our OMRp1 scheme is DoS resistance under a natural
conjecture about LWE-based encryption.
Theorem 6. For any ϵp = poly(λ), OMRp1 (patched as above) is a DoS-
resistant Oblivious Message Retrieval scheme, when instantiated with any PRF
f, assuming the hardness of Ring-LWE and Conjecture 1 below.
To prove our constructions fulﬁll this stronger deﬁnition, we ﬁrst deﬁne an
indicator in a natural way: given the secret key sk and a clue c = (⃗ua, ⃗ub) ∈C,
the indicator computes ⃗u = ⃗ub −skT⃗ua using the secret key and outputs 1 iﬀthe
result in range [−r, r]. This gives use completeness directly. The delicate part is
to prove the indicator collision-resistance property. Intuitively, no matter what
strategy is adopted by a PPT adversary, given two public keys it should be hard
to generate a “snake-eye” ciphertext that decrypts to 0 under both keys, except
with trivial probability (e.g., encrypting 0 to the ﬁrst key and hoping to succeed
for the second). The requisite property is formalized in the following deﬁnition13
and conjecture:
Deﬁnition 5 (snake-eye-resistant
encryption).
An encryption scheme
(KeyGen, Enc, Dec) is δ-snake-eye-resistant if the following holds: for any PPT
algorithm A, for keys (sk, pk) ←KeyGen(1λ) and (sk′, pk′) ←KeyGen(1λ), for
ciphertext c ←A(pk, pk′), it holds that Pr[Dec(sk, c) = 0 ∧Dec(sk′, c) = 0] ≤
δ + negl(λ).
Conjecture 1 (Patched Regev05 is snake-eye-resistant).
The Regev05 scheme
[57], patched such that decryption rejects any ciphertext (⃗a, b) where ⃗a = ⃗0 and
the decryption checks the result in range [−r, r] as introduced in Sect. 6.2, is
2r+1
t
-snake-eye-resistant.
Snake-eye resistance is not generically implied by semantic security of the
encryption scheme, nor by key privacy. However, Conjecture 1 can be proven under
the standard (homogeneous) Short Integer Solution (SIS) hardness assumption [1]
combined with a natural generalization of the Knowledge of Knapsack of Noisy
Inner Products assumption [10]. We defer the high level explanation of this state-
ment to the full version. Alternatively the latter assumption can be replaced by a
zk-SNARK proof [10], appended to the ciphertext, of the statement “(⃗a, b) was
constructed as a linear combination of public-key vectors”.14
Conjecture 1 implies a natural generalization to snake-eye resistance of PVW
encryption, which implies indicator collision resistance, and thus Theorem 6 (see
the full version for proofs).
13 We note that for encryption schemes like El Gamal, the snake-eye-resistance is trivial,
as for a ciphertext to be decrypted to the same plaintext, the secret keys must be
the same as the decryption function is a one-to-one function.
14 Such a proof ﬁts in 192 bytes [30, §5.4.9.2] per clue regardless of ℓ, and in Zcash it
can be merged into pre-existing zk-SNARK proofs in the same transaction [30].

776
Z. Liu and E. Tromer
8
Key Unlinkability
The security notions discussed thus far, and in prior works, omit another privacy
consideration: linkability of the detection and clue keys. This occurs in several
senses. Detection-key to clue-key linkability would reveal clients’ identities to
the detector serving them. Detection-key to detection-key linkability would allow
detectors to link recurring clients, facilitating traﬃc analysis of detection queries.
Clue-key to clue-key linkability is a concern when recipients wish to publish
several addresses that are unlinkable, but (secretly) correspond to a single secret
key which controls all of them (as in Zcash’s “diversiﬁed address” [30]).
Linkability in Prior Work. In FMD [7], the detection keys and clue keys
are a key pair in an asymmetric encryption scheme and therefore can be linked.
Both PS schemes [44] link the detection key to the clue key by having a public
identifying number Ri for each recipient and used in each retrieval. In both FMD
and PS, the detection key and clue key are ﬁxed for each recipient.
Deﬁning Unlinkability. We deﬁne, in the natural way, the notion of OMR (or
OMD) that is detection-to-clue-key-unlinkable. We also deﬁne OMR (or OMD)
that is full-key-unlinkable: it oﬀers algorithms pk∗
detect ←RegenDetectKey(sk)
and pk∗
clue ←RegenClueKey(sk) that generate new public keys such that cannot
be linked to other ones for the same sk. See the full version for details.
Key Unlinkability in OMRp1 and OMRp2. The OMRp1 and OMRp2 schemes
are detection-to-clue-key-unlinkable, by the semantic security of BFV (applied to
ctlweSK in pkdetect). Moreover, they are full-key-unlinkable, via a key re-generation
process. To resample the detection key, we generate a fresh BFV key pair (which
is trivially unlinkable to prior keys) and encrypt the PVW secret key to the new
BFV key (this ciphertext is also unlinkable to prior keys, by semantic security of
BFV). To resample clue keys, we regenerate the PVW public keys from the PVW
private key; this is indeed unlinkable. We defer the details to the full version.
Attaining Key Unlinkability for Other Schemes. Our OMRt1 scheme can
be modiﬁed to achieve full-key-unlinkability similarly. We defer details to the
full version. PS1 can be analogously modiﬁed to achieve detection-to-clue-key
unlinkability by changing its PKE and some other modiﬁcations (deferred to the
full version). It is not obvious how to achieve full-key-unlinkability, or even the
weaker detection-to-clue-key-unlinkablity, for PS2, FMD1, or FMD2.
9
Performance Evaluation
We implemented the OMRp1 scheme of Sect. 6.3, and the OMRp2 scheme of
Sect. 6.4 instantiated with SRLC2, in a C++ library (released as open source).
We used the PALISADE library [52] for PVW encryption, and the SEAL library
[47] with Intel-HEXL acceleration [12] for the BFV scheme. We benchmarked
these schemes on several parameter settings, on a Google Compute Cloud
c2-standard-4 instance type (4 hyperthreads of an Intel Xeon 3.10 GHz CPU
with 16 GB RAM). This section reports and compares the results.

Oblivious Message Retrieval
777
Table 2. Comparison of cost metrics, functionality and security attributes. Costs are
per message, per recipient. Notation is as in Table 1. The bulletin contains N = 500, 000
messages, of which k = ¯k = 50 are pertinent to the recipient. “s↔s” means server-to-
server communication. For PS1/PS2, we used the times from [44, §9.2] (Intel Xeon
Platinum 8259CL), and some costs are via private communication from their authors.
If FMD1/FMD2 are used just for detection, the costs are essentially unchanged except
that communication is ≤1.
Detection schemes
Retrieval schemes (including detection)
ZIP-307
[23,27]
PS1
[44]
PS2
[44]
OMDp1
§6.2
Zcash full
scan [23]
FMD1
[7] / [40]
FMD2
[7]
OMRp1
§6.3
OMRp2
§6.4
Communication (bytes/msg)
116
≪1
≪1 + 3M s↔s
0.56
612
42
5.3
1.13
9.03
Detector computation
time (sec/msg)
1 thread
N/A
0.06
0.25
0.021
N/A
0.011 / 0.00020
0.043
0.145
0.155
2/4
0.01/0.0099
0.075/0.065 0.085/0.072
Recipient computation
total time (sec)
1 thread
70
≪10−3
≪10−3
0.005
61
2.1
0.29
0.02
0.063
Clue size (bytes)
N/A
32
32
956
N/A
68 / 64.5
318,530
956
956
Clue key size (bytes)
N/A
32
N/A
133 k
N/A
1.5 k
1 k
133 k
133 k
Detection key size (bytes)
N/A
64
920
99 M
N/A
768
512
129 M
129 M
Retrieval privacy
Full
Full
Partitioned
across
detectors
Full
Full
pN-msg-
anonymity
p = 2−5
pN-msg-
anonymity
p = 2−8
Full
Full
Env. assumptions for
privacy
None
TEE (SGX)
Non-colluding
servers
None
None
None
None
None
None
Env. assumptions for
Soundness+completeness
None
Honest S&R
Honest S&R
None
None
Honest S&R
Honest S&R
None
None
Parameters. We set the total number of messages to N = 500, 000 (roughly
the number of Bitcoin payments per day), and set the cap on the number of
pertinent message to ¯k = 50. We set a false positive rate ϵp = 2−21 (including
decryption failure) and a false negative rate ϵn = 2−30. The payload size is 612
bytes, as in Zcash.
The internal parameter choice for PVW, BFV and other
settings in OMRp1/OMRp2 are deferred to the full version of this paper.
Representative Costs. Table 2 summarizes the main cost metrics and func-
tionality/security attributes of our scheme, compared to related ones, for the
above parameters. (See also Table 1 for additional functional/security attributes
and the full version for asymptotic costs,).
We see that in both communication and recipient computation, OMRp1 is
better than any other scheme with retrieval functionality, thereby making it
attractive for recipients that are limited in bandwidth, computation speed, or
energy. Furthermore, OMRp1/OMRp2 provide the strongest form of security, and
under the least assumptions.
Retrieval Scaling with #Messages. Figure 2 evaluates how the recipient’s
total cost of retrieval scales with increasing N, keeping ¯k constant. As can be
seen, our scheme OMRp1 outperforms all prior constructions starting at moder-
ate bulletin sizes, in both digest size and recipient computation time.
For N > 8 · 106, our compact OMR scheme OMRp2 takes the lead and
achieves an amortized digest size of less than 1 bit per message. In general, the
crossover point grows with k (due to the growing number of buckets in OMRp2),
so OMRp2 outperforms when N is large but k is small.
The detector computation time in OMRp1/OMRp2 is worse than for FMD
and full-scan. It is linear in N for all schemes, and thus follows from Table 2.

778
Z. Liu and E. Tromer
(a) Digest size vs. number of messages.
(b) Total recipient computation time vs.
number of messages.
Fig. 2. Retrieval cost comparison (total digest size and recipient computation) for up
to ¯k = 50 pertinent messages.
Detection Key. The detection key size is 129 MB, using the techniques of
Sect. 6.5. (Without these optimizations, the detection key size is ∼13.5 GB.)
Note that the detection key can be sent to the detector via an insecure channel,
authenticated by a hash. After the one-time cost of transmission, it can then be
used to detect an arbitrary number of messages.
Memory Use. For simplicity, our implementation stores the detection key and
all intermediate results in RAM, for a total memory use of ∼3.5 GB per thread.
Streaming Finalization Cost. Using the streaming approach of Sect. 6.5, we
can reduce the response time to recipients For OMRp1, the ﬁnalization is only
∼2.1 ms/msg. It can be further reduced to ∼0.35 ms/msg, since we have ﬁxed γ.
Similar results hold for OMRp2.
10
Integration and Limitations
We proceed to discuss systems aspect of integrating OMR in real-world applica-
tions, and limitations of our current constructions. For concreteness, we consider
integration of OMRp1 or OMRp2 with the Zcash cryptocurrency [30] to solve the
problem of receiver metadata leakage [32] from its light wallet protocol [27]. This
prospective integration illustrates several hurdles and how they can be resolved.
We use the same scheme parameters as in Sect. 9.
Clue Key Distribution. In our OMR approach (as for FMD [7] and single-
server PS [44]), senders need to obtain the recipient’s clue key to generate clues.
It is natural to consider the clue key to be an extension of the public address,
shared by the same trusted channels. Zcash’s Uniﬁed Addresses mechanism [31]
indeed allows such data to be included with public addresses in a backwards-
compatible way, and payment URIs [49,59] can be similarly extended. The clue

Oblivious Message Retrieval
779
key size of 133 kB (PVW public key) has usability issues. Alternatively, the
Uniﬁed Address can contain a URL from which the clue key can be fetched.
Zcash diversiﬁed addresses [30] can be accompanied by diﬀerent clue keys while
preserving address unlinkability, using the full-key-unlinkability property.
Clue Embedding. Clues of size 956 bytes need to be attached to every payload.
This is comparable to the roughly 1.3 kB of data already on-chain per such
payment. The transaction format can be extended with a dedicated clue ﬁeld,
or clues can be embedded into OP RETURN data or dummy output descriptions.
Detection Latency. Detectors needs to see all blockchain data, facilitating
detection in several ways:
in the single-shot model, the recipient makes a
stateless query to the detector. Response latency is high: about 0.145 s/msg
(cf. Table 2). The subscribe and ﬁnalize model utilizes
a streaming version of
OMRp1, as in Sect. 6.5, taking 0.0005 core-s/msg.
Detection Key. Our OMRp1 and OMRp2 schemes requires recipient to send
large detection keys (∼129 MB) to detectors. Conversely, OMRt1 instantiated
with TFHE reduces detection key size to ∼16 MB, but with much slower detec-
tion. Combining the best of these is an open problem.
Detection Cost. The detector cost is ∼$1.02 per million payments scanned
(per recipient), using commodity cloud computing.15 This implies $0.02/month
detection cost for Zcash’s current shielded payments usage, or $1.66/month for
the current usage rate of Monero (the highest-volume privacy-enhanced cryp-
tocurrency). If all of Bitcoin’s payments were instead done as Zcash shielded
payments, detection cost would grow to $15.3/month ; and even higher for mas-
sive private messaging applications such as Signal. Acceleration via GPU, FPGA
or ASIC can improve costs by orders of magnitudes [2,56]. For cryptocurrency
applications, the recipient can directly pay the server for this anonymously.
Acknowledgements. We are grateful to Daniele Micciancio for suggesting suitable
FHE schemes for Sect. 5; to Ran Canetti, Oded Regev and Noah Stephens-Davidowitz
for observations on Conjecture 1; to Matthew Green, Jack Grigg, Daira Hopwood, Tay-
lor Hornby and Madarz Virza for ideas and observations regarding Zcash integration
in Sect. 10; to Istv´an Andr´as Seres and Varun Madathil for assistance in quantitative
evaluation of [44] and comparisons to our work; to Miranda Christ for excellent edito-
rial suggestions; and to Wei Dai for assistance in generating level-speciﬁc rotation keys
using SEAL library.
This material is based upon work supported by DARPA under Contract
No. HR001120C0085; the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Oﬃce of Science,
Oﬃce of Advanced Scientiﬁc Computing Research under award number DE-SC-
0001234, the Columbia-IBM center for Blockchain and Data Transparency; JPMor-
gan Chase & Co, and LexisNexis Risk Solutions. Any opinions, views, ﬁnd-
ings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those
15 0.065 s/msg (4-core, c2-standard-4 preemptible compute instance, $0.051/h). For
ﬁnalization, 0.18 ms/msg, 4-core (non-preemptible instance, $0.168/h with sustained
use discount). Communication cost is negligible: <$10−9/msg egress.

780
Z. Liu and E. Tromer
of the authors and do not necessarily reﬂect the views of the U.S. Government, DARPA,
DOE, JPMorgan Chase & Co. or its aﬃliates, or other sponsors.
References
1. Ajtai, M.: Generating hard instances of lattice problems (extended abstract). In:
ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, STOC 1996, pp. 99–108. ACM (1996)
2. Al Badawi, A., Polyakov, Y., Aung, K.M.M., Veeravalli, B., Rohloﬀ, K.: Imple-
mentation and performance evaluation of RNS variants of the BFV homomorphic
encryption scheme. IEEE Trans. Emerg. Top. Comput. 9, 941–956 (2021)
3. Albrecht, M.R., Player, R., Scott, S.: On the concrete hardness of learning with
errors. J. Math. Cryptol. 9, 169–203 (2015)
4. Ali, A., et al.: Communication-computation trade-oﬀs in PIR. In: USENIX Security
2021, pp. 1811–1828. USENIX, August 2021
5. Angel, S., Chen, H., Laine, K., Setty, S.T.V.: PIR with compressed queries and
amortized query processing. In: 2018 IEEE S&P. IEEE Computer Society Press
(2018)
6. Angel, S., Setty, S.: Unobservable communication over fully untrusted infrastruc-
ture. In: OSDI 2016, pp. 551–569. USENIX, November 2016
7. Beck, G., Len, J., Miers, I., Green, M.: Fuzzy message detection. In: The ACM
Conference on Computer and Communications Security, CCS 2021 (2021)
8. Ben Sasson, E., et al.: Zerocash: decentralized anonymous payments from bitcoin.
In: 2014 IEEE S&P, pp. 459–474 (2014)
9. Bethencourt, J., Song, D.X., Waters, B.: New techniques for private stream search-
ing. ACM Trans. Inf. Syst. Secur. 12, 16:1–16:32 (2009)
10. Bitansky, N., Canetti, R., Chiesa, A., Tromer, E.: From extractable collision resis-
tance to succinct non-interactive arguments of knowledge, and back again. In: ITCS
2012, pp. 326–349. ACM (2012)
11. Bittau, A., et al.: Prochlo: strong privacy for analytics in the crowd. In: SOSP, pp.
441–459 (2017)
12. Boemer, F., Kim, S., Seifu, G., de Souza, F.D., Gopal, V., et al.: Intel HEXL
(release 1.2), September 2021. https://github.com/intel/hexl
13. Brakerski, Z.: Fully homomorphic encryption without modulus switching from clas-
sical GapSVP. In: Safavi-Naini, R., Canetti, R. (eds.) CRYPTO 2012. LNCS, vol.
7417, pp. 868–886. Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
642-32009-5 50
14. Brakerski, Z., Gentry, C., Vaikuntanathan, V.: (Leveled) fully homomorphic
encryption without bootstrapping. In: ITCS 2012. ACM, 8–10 January 2012
15. Brown, S., Johnson, O., Tassi, A.: Reliability of broadcast communications under
sparse random linear network coding. IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol. 67(5), 4677–4682
(2018)
16. Chillotti, I., Gama, N., Georgieva, M., Izabach`ene, M.: TFHE: fast fully homomor-
phic encryption over the torus. J. Cryptol. 33(1), 34–91 (2020)
17. Choi, S.G., Dachman-Soled, D., Gordon, S.D., Liu, L., Yerukhimovich, A.: Com-
pressed oblivious encoding for homomorphically encrypted search. In: CCS 2021
(2021)
18. Chor, B., Gilboa, N., Naor, M.: Private information retrieval by keywords (1998).
Appeared in the Theory of Cryptography Library. http://ia.cr/1998/003

Oblivious Message Retrieval
781
19. Chor, B., Goldreich, O., Kushilevitz, E., Sudan, M.: Private information retrieval.
In: 36th FOCS, pp. 41–50. IEEE Computer Society Press, 23–25 October 1995
20. Corrigan-Gibbs, H., Boneh, D., Mazi`eres, D.: Riposte: an anonymous messaging
system handling millions of users. In: 2015 IEEE S&P, pp. 321–338 (2015)
21. Danezis, G., Diaz, C.: Space-eﬃcient private search with applications to Rateless
codes. In: Dietrich, S., Dhamija, R. (eds.) FC 2007. LNCS, vol. 4886, pp. 148–162.
Springer, Heidelberg (2007). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-77366-5 15
22. Ducas, L., Micciancio, D.: FHEW: bootstrapping homomorphic encryption in less
than a second. In: Oswald, E., Fischlin, M. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2015, Part I.
LNCS, vol. 9056, pp. 617–640. Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-662-46800-5 24
23. Electric Coin Company: Zcash Rust crates. Commit hash: 99d877e22d58610dc
43021b831a28286ef353a89. https://github.com/zcash/librustzcash
24. Fan, J., Vercauteren, F.: Somewhat practical fully homomorphic encryption. Cryp-
tology ePrint Archive, Report 2012/144 (2012). https://ia.cr/2012/144
25. Finiasz, M., Ramchandran, K.: Private stream search at almost the same communi-
cation cost as a regular search. In: Knudsen, L.R., Wu, H. (eds.) SAC 2012. LNCS,
vol. 7707, pp. 372–389. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-642-35999-6 24
26. Gentry, C.: Fully homomorphic encryption using ideal lattices. In: ACM Sympo-
sium on Theory of Computing, STOC 2009, pp. 169–178. ACM (2009)
27. Grigg, J., Hopwood, D.: Zcash improvement proposal 307: light client protocol for
payment detection, September 2018. https://zips.z.cash/zip-0307
28. Halevi, S.: A suﬃcient condition for key-privacy. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report
2005/005 (2005)
29. Jelle van den Hooﬀ, J., Lazar, D., Zaharia, M., Zeldovich, N.: Vuvuzela: scalable
private messaging resistant to traﬃc analysis. In: SOSP, pp. 137–152. ACM (2015)
30. Hopwood, D., Bowe, S., Hornby, T., Wilcox, N.: Zcash Protocol Speciﬁcation
Version 2021.2.14. https://github.com/zcash/zips/blob/master/protocol/protocol.
pdf
31. Hopwood, D., et al.: Zcash improvement proposal 316: uniﬁed addresses and uniﬁed
viewing keys, April 2021. https://zips.z.cash/zip-0316
32. Hornby, T.: Fixing privacy problems in the Zcash light wallet protocol, October
2020. https://defuse.ca/downloads/Fixing%20Privacy%20Problems%20in%20the
%20Zcash%20Light%20Wallet%20Protocol.pdf
33. Iliashenko, I., N`egre, C., Zucca, V.: Integer functions suitable for homomorphic
encryption over ﬁnite ﬁelds. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2021/1335 (2021).
WAHC 2021
34. Kaufman, T., Sudan, M.: Sparse random linear codes are locally decodable and
testable. In: FOCS 2007 (2007)
35. Khan, A.S., Chatzigeorgiou, I.: Improved bounds on the decoding failure proba-
bility of network coding over multi-source multi-relay networks. IEEE Commun.
Lett. 20(10), 2035–2038 (2016)
36. Kushilevitz, E., Ostrovsky, R.: Replication is not needed: single database,
computationally-private information retrieval. In: FOCS 1997 (1997)
37. Laine, K.: Simple encrypted arithmetic library 2.3.1. Microsoft Research, Red-
mond, WA. https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/uploads/prod/2017/11/
sealmanual-2-3-1.pdf

782
Z. Liu and E. Tromer
38. Lazar, D., Zeldovich, N.: Alpenhorn: bootstrapping secure communication without
leaking metadata. In: OSDI 2016, pp. 571–586. USENIX, November 2016
39. Le, D., Tengana Hurtado, L., Ahmad, A., Minaei, M., Lee, B., Kate, A.: A tale of
two trees: one writes, and other reads. In: PETS 2020, pp. 519–536, April 2020
40. Lewis, S.J.: fuzzytags. https://git.openprivacy.ca/openprivacy/fuzzytags.git
41. Lewis, S.J.: Discreet log #1: anonymity, bandwidth and fuzzytags, February 2021.
https://openprivacy.ca/discreet-log/01-anonymity-bandwidth-and-fuzzytags/
42. Lund, J.: Technology preview: sealed sender for signal, October 2018. https://
signal.org/blog/sealed-sender/
43. Lyubashevsky, V., Peikert, C., Regev, O.: On ideal lattices and learning with errors
over rings. J. ACM 60, 1–35 (2013)
44. Madathil, V., Scafuro, A., Seres, I.A., Shlomovits, O., Varlakov, D.: Private sig-
naling. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2021/853 (20210624:145011) (2021)
45. Martiny, I., Kaptchuk, G., Aviv, A., Roche, D., Wustrow, E.: Improving signal’s
sealed sender. In: NDSS 2022, January 2021
46. Matetic, S., W¨ust, K., Schneider, M., Kostiainen, K., Karame, G., Capkun, S.:
BITE: bitcoin lightweight client privacy using trusted execution. In: USENIX Secu-
rity 2019, pp. 783–800. USENIX, August 2019
47. Microsoft SEAL (release 3.6). Microsoft Research, Redmond, WA, November 2020.
https://github.com/Microsoft/SEAL
48. Noether, S.: Ring signature conﬁdential transactions for Monero. IACR Cryptology
ePrint Archive 2015/1098 (2015)
49. Nuttycombe, K., Hopwood, D.: Zcash improvement proposal 321: payment request
URIs, August 2010. https://zips.z.cash/zip-0321
50. Oblivious message retrieval implementation, December 2021. https://github.com/
ZeyuThomasLiu/ObliviousMessageRetrieval
51. Ostrovsky, R., Skeith, W.E.: Private searching on streaming data. In: Shoup, V.
(ed.) CRYPTO 2005. LNCS, vol. 3621, pp. 223–240. Springer, Heidelberg (2005).
https://doi.org/10.1007/11535218 14
52. PALISADE lattice cryptography library (release 11.2), June 2021. https://
palisade-crypto.org/
53. Paterson, M., Stockmeyer, L.: On the number of nonscalar multiplications neces-
sary to evaluate polynomials. SIAM J. Comput. 2, 60–66 (1973)
54. Peikert, C., Vaikuntanathan, V., Waters, B.: A framework for eﬃcient and compos-
able oblivious transfer. In: Wagner, D. (ed.) CRYPTO 2008. LNCS, vol. 5157, pp.
554–571. Springer, Heidelberg (2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-85174-
5 31
55. Player, R.: Parameter selection in lattice-based cryptography. Ph.D. thesis, Royal
Holloway, University of London (2018)
56. Reagen, B., et al.: Cheetah: optimizing and accelerating homomorphic encryption
for private inference. In: 2021 IEEE HPCA, pp. 26–39 (2021)
57. Regev, O.: On lattices, learning with errors, random linear codes, and cryptogra-
phy. J. ACM 56, 1–40 (2009)
58. Salmond, D., Grant, A.J., Grivell, I., Chan, T.: On the rank of random matrices
over ﬁnite ﬁelds. CoRR (2014). http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.3250
59. Schneider, N., Corallo, M.: Bitcoin improvement proposal 21: URI scheme, January
2012. https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0021.mediawiki
60. Tassi, A., Chatzigeorgiou, I., Lucani, D.: Analysis and optimization of sparse ran-
dom linear network coding for reliable multicast services. IEEE Trans. Commun.
64, 285–299 (2016)

Oblivious Message Retrieval
783
61. Wolinsky, D.I., Corrigan-Gibbs, H., Ford, B., Johnson, A.: Dissent in numbers:
making strong anonymity scale. In: OSDI 2012, pp. 179–182. USENIX, October
2012
62. W¨ust, K., Matetic, S., Schneider, M., Miers, I., Kostiainen, K., ˇCapkun, S.: ZLiTE:
lightweight clients for shielded Zcash transactions using trusted execution. In:
Goldberg, I., Moore, T. (eds.) FC 2019. LNCS, vol. 11598, pp. 179–198. Springer,
Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-32101-7 12

