On Time-Space Tradeoﬀs for Bounded-Length
Collisions in Merkle-Damg˚ard Hashing
Ashrujit Ghoshal1(B)
and Ilan Komargodski2,3
1 Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering,
University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA
ashrujit@cs.washington.edu
2 School of Computer Science and Engineering,
Hebrew University of Jerusalem, 91904 Jerusalem, Israel
ilank@cs.huji.ac.il
3 NTT Research, Sunnyvale, USA
Abstract. We study the power of preprocessing adversaries in ﬁnd-
ing bounded-length collisions in the widely used Merkle-Damg˚ard (MD)
hashing in the random oracle model. Speciﬁcally, we consider adversaries
with arbitrary S-bit advice about the random oracle and can make at
most T queries to it. Our goal is to characterize the advantage of such
adversaries in ﬁnding a B-block collision in an MD hash function con-
structed using the random oracle with range size N as the compression
function (given a random salt).
The answer to this question is completely understood for very large
values of B (essentially Ω(T)) as well as for B “ 1, 2. For B ≈T, Coretti
et al. (EUROCRYPT ’18) gave matching upper and lower bounds of
˜Θ(ST 2/N). Akshima et al. (CRYPTO ’20) observed that the attack of
Coretti et al. could be adapted to work for any value of B > 1, giving an
attack with advantage ˜Ω(STB/N ` T 2/N). Unfortunately, they could
only prove that this attack is optimal for B “ 2. Their proof involves a
compression argument with exhaustive case analysis and, as they claim,
a naive attempt to generalize their bound to larger values of B (even
for B “ 3) would lead to an explosion in the number of cases needed to
be analyzed, making it unmanageable. With the lack of a more general
upper bound, they formulated the STB conjecture, stating that the best-
possible advantage is ˜O(STB/N ` T 2/N) for any B > 1.
In this work, we conﬁrm the STB conjecture in many new parameter
settings. For instance, in one result, we show that the conjecture holds
for all constant values of B. Further, using combinatorial properties of
graphs, we are able to conﬁrm the conjecture even for super constant
values of B, as long as some restriction is made on S. For instance, we
conﬁrm the conjecture for all B ⩽T 1/4 as long as S ⩽T 1/8. Technically,
we develop structural characterizations for bounded-length collisions in
MD hashing that allow us to give a compression argument in which the
number of cases needed to be handled does not explode.
1
Introduction
Starting from the seminal work of Hellman [21], there have been signiﬁcant
eﬀorts to understand the power of preprocessing attacks in various applications
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
Y. Dodis and T. Shrimpton (Eds.): CRYPTO 2022, LNCS 13509, pp. 161–191, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15982-4_6

162
A. Ghoshal and I. Komargodski
and
constructions
(e.g.,
[1,3,5,6,8,9,11,13,15,16,28,30,31]).
Preprocessing
attacks, i.e., ones that utilize a bounded amount of auxiliary information, cap-
ture the standard modeling of attackers as non-uniform, allowing them to obtain
some arbitrary (but bounded length) “advice” before attacking the system. In
this work, we continue the recent line of works studying the power of prepro-
cessing adversaries in the context of ﬁnding collisions in the widely used Merkle-
Damg˚ard (MD) design.
Collision Resistance of Salted MD. The Merkle-Damg˚ard hash function
construction [12,24–26] is a popular design for building an arbitrary-size-input
compression function from a ﬁxed-size-input compression function. This design
is not only extremely fundamental in cryptographic theory, but it also underlies
popular hash functions used in practice, most notably MD5, SHA-1, and SHA-2.
The MD construction is deﬁned relative to a compressing function h: [N] ×
[M] →[N]1, modeled as a random oracle, as follows. First, for a P [N] and
α P [M], let MDh(a, α) “ h(a, α). Then, deﬁne recursively
MDh(a, (α1, . . . , αB)) “ h(MDh(a, (α1, . . . , αB−1)), αB)
for a P [N] and α1, . . . , αB P [M]. The a is referred to as salt (sometimes also
called IV) and each of the following B elements are referred to as blocks.
Due to the ubiquitous inﬂuence of this hashing paradigm, both in theory
and practice, characterizing the complexity of ﬁnding collisions in MDh (on a
random salt) is a fundamental problem. The well-known birthday attack gives a
T-query attacker with Θ(T 2/N) advantage. However, this attack is very generic:
it neither takes advantage of the structure of MDh nor does it utilize the fact
that the attacker may have access to some limited amount of “advice” about
h due to a long preprocessing phase. But, there is a good reason that security
against non-uniform attackers has become the standard notion of security in
the cryptographic literature: it captures the natural idea that an adversary may
have been designed to attack speciﬁc instances, guaranteeing security against an
expensive preprocessing stage, or even unknown future attacks. On the whole,
it is widely believed by the theoretical community that non-uniformity is the
right cryptographic modeling of attackers, despite being overly conservative and
including potentially unrealistic attackers. Therefore, understanding the com-
plexity of ﬁnding collisions in MD, allowing preprocessing, is a fundamental
problem.
The Auxiliary-Input Random Oracle Model. The concrete hash functions
h used in real-life do not have solid theoretical foundations from the perspective
of provable security. Therefore, when analyzing the security of the MD con-
struction, the function h is typically modeled as a completely random one, i.e.,
a random oracle. We follow the standard approach and model preprocessing
adversaries using the inﬂuential extension of the random oracle model termed
auxiliary-input random oracle model (AI-ROM). This model was (implicitly)
used, for example, in the classical works of Yao [31] and Fiat and Naor [16],
1 We use the notation [N] to denote the set {1, 2, . . . , N} for a natural number N.

On Time-Space Tradeoﬀs for Bounded-Length Collisions in MD Hashing
163
and formally deﬁned in the inﬂuential work of Unruh [30] which was recently
revisited by Dodis, Guo, and Katz [15] and Coretti et al. [9].
The AI-ROM models preprocessing adversaries as two-stage algorithms (A1,
A2) parametrized by S (for “space”) and T (for “time”). The ﬁrst part A1 has
unbounded access to the random oracle h, and its goal is to compute an S-bit
“advice” σ for A2. The second part A2 gets the advice σ, can make at most T
queries to the random oracle, and attempts to accomplish some task involving
h. In our case, A2 gets a random salt a as a challenge and its goal is to come up
with a collision in MDh(a, ·). Both A1 and A2 are unbounded in running time.
Known Results. Collision resistance of salted MD hash functions in the AI-
ROM was ﬁrst studied by Coretti, Dodis, Guo, and Steinberger [9]. Among
other results, they showed an attack, loosely based on the idea of rainbow
tables [21,28], with advantage ˜Ω(ST 2/N).23 They further showed that this
attack is optimal. Namely, no attack can have an advantage better than
˜O(ST 2/N). (Notice that this attack beats the naive birthday attack mentioned
above for typical values of S.) In a more recent work of Akshima, Cash, Drucker,
and Wee [3] observed that the attack of Coretti et al. [9] results in very long
collisions, of the order of T blocks, which may limit their practical usefulness.
While formally, a length T collision does violate collision resistance, it is hard
to imagine a natural application where it is useful. Indeed, for reasonable values
of T, say T “ 260, it is unlikely that such a collision, which is several petabytes
long, could damage any widely-used application.
Akshima et al. [3] therefore raise the very natural question of what is the
complexity of ﬁnding short collisions.
What is the complexity, as a function of S and T
(the allowed space and
query bounds, respectively),
of ﬁnding a B -block collision in salted MD?
Although this question is very natural and clean, as mentioned, a complete
answer is known only in the extreme cases, either when B “ 2 or when B “
˜Ω(T). Indeed, when B is very close to T, the result above of Coretti et al. [9]
implies that the advantage is ˜Θ(ST 2/N). The case of B “ 2 was resolved by
Akshima et al. [3] who showed that the advantage is ˜Θ(ST/N ` T 2/N). Even
for B “ 3, a complete answer is not known: The analysis of Akshima et al. [3]
consists of an elaborate case analysis tailored to the B “ 2 case, and they claim
that even for B “ 3 the proof of their lower bound “. . . would be too long and
complex to write down”.4
The STB Conjecture. In terms of upper bounds, Akshima et al. [3] showed
that a variant of Coretti et al.’s (rainbow tables inspired) attack could be gen-
eralized to get a B-block collision with advantage ˜Ω(STB/N). This attack gen-
eralized the attack of Coretti et al. [9] which gives an O(T)-block collision with
probability ˜Ω(ST 2/N). With the lack of better bounds on the best possible
2 Throughout the paper, the˜notation suppresses poly-logarithmic terms in N.
3 By “advantage” we mean the probability of ﬁnding a collision.
4 For B “ 1 a tight bound of Θ(S/N ` T 2/N) is known [15].

164
A. Ghoshal and I. Komargodski
attack for a wide range of B’s (anywhere between B “ 3 and B ! T), Akshima
et al. [3] put forward the “STB conjecture” which posits that the optimal attack
for ﬁnding length B collisions has advantage ˜Θ(STB/N `T 2/N) (i.e., the better
between their attack and the generic birthday attack).
We believe that our current understanding of the exact security that MD-
style constructions could ideally achieve is insuﬃcient. Therefore, given how
widespread MD-based hash functions are, progress towards resolving the conjec-
ture is highly important.
1.1
Our Results
Our main result conﬁrms the STB conjecture in many new parameter settings.
Speciﬁcally, we prove two new upper bounds on the advantage of the best attack
for ﬁnding short collisions in salted MD hash functions in the AI-ROM. The
ﬁrst bound conﬁrms the STB conjecture for all constant values of B. The second
result conﬁrms the STB conjecture even for super constant values of B but only
for moderately large values of S compared to T.
STB Conjecture is True for all Constant B. We show that for any B P
O(1), the advantage of any S-space T-query attacker in ﬁnding a length B
collision is bounded by ˜O(ST/N ` T 2/N), matching the known attack up to
poly-logarithmic factors.
Theorem 1.1 (Informal; See Theorem 5.1). For every constant B, the STB
conjecture is true.
This theorem is obtained as a special case of a more general bound on the
advantage of any S-space T-query attacker in ﬁnding a length B collision of the
form
˜O
STB2(log2 S)B−2
N
` T 2
N

.
Note that this bound is meaningful when B is a constant (or slightly bigger) but
becomes vacuous when say, B “ log N.
STB Conjecture is True for all SB ! T. We show that as long as S, B ! T,
the conjecture is true again. Speciﬁcally, we show that whenever S4B2 P ˜O(T),
the maximal advantage of any S-space T-query attacker in ﬁnding a length B
collision is obtained by the birthday attack, up to poly-logarithmic factors. For
example, when SB ⩽T 1/4, the maximal advantage is O(T 2/N), and therefore
the STB conjecture holds.
Theorem 1.2 (Informal; See Theorem 6.1). For every S4B2 P ˜O(T), the
STB conjecture is true. For instance, the conjecture holds if either
– B P poly log N and S P ˜O(T 1/4), or
– B P ˜O(T 1/4) and S P ˜O(T 1/8).

On Time-Space Tradeoﬀs for Bounded-Length Collisions in MD Hashing
165
This theorem is obtained as a special case of a more general bound on the
advantage of any S-space T-query attacker in ﬁnding a length B collision of the
form
˜O
S4 TB2
N
` T 2
N

.
A Concrete Comparison Between the Results. The two bounds are gen-
erally incomparable. While the bound from Theorem 1.1 is asymptotically tight
whenever B is constant (independent of S, T), it becomes vacuous for say
B “ log N. On the other hand, the bound from Theorem 1.2 is meaningful for
all B P o(N 1/2), as long as S4 · B2 ! N. For instance, assume that S “ N 1/16
and B P Θ(N ϵ) (for 0 < ϵ < 1/8). In this setting, the bound from Theorem
1.1 is trivial. On the other hand, the bound from Theorem 1.2 gives that any
successful attack must satisfy T P ˜Ω(N 1/2) which is strictly better than what
the generic ˜O(ST 2/N) bound gives (it only gives T P ˜Ω(N 15/32)).
Technical Highlight. The main technical component in both of our bounds is a
compression argument that uses a “too-good-to-be-true” attacker to non-trivially
compress a uniformly random sequence of bits, thereby getting a contradiction.
The setup is somewhat similar to the one of Akshima et al. [3] (although slightly
more modular), but our compression argument deviates from theirs signiﬁcantly.
Their argument inherently relied on the fact that there are at most two blocks
in the collision, therefore greatly simplifying the possible structures to consider.
In contrast, we consider arbitrary length collisions, and thus we have to deal
with all possible structures of collisions. Our proof identiﬁes and analyzes a
general structure for MD collisions and unveils a natural combinatorial problem
that inﬂuences the resulting upper bound on the advantage of preprocessing
adversaries. Speciﬁcally, it turns out that the “dominant extra” terms in both
of our bounds ((log2 S)B−2 in the ﬁrst bound and S3 in the second) emerge due
to the need to encode a reverse path in a general (fan-out 1, but possibly large
fan-in) directed graph, where the graph is the one induced by the queries that
the adversary makes to the random oracle. Any improvement on this encoding
would immediately imply a better upper bound, a fact that we hope will lead to
better bounds in the future.
1.2
Discussion
As mentioned, the MD paradigm underlies numerous hash function constructions
that are central building blocks in many applications. There are several popular
variants of the MD paradigm implemented in practice. In this work, we follow
previous works and focus on the cleanest variant for concreteness. One prominent
variant withstands length extension attacks by padding the input message with
its length. (In fact, this is the version suggested by Merkle and Damg˚ard.) We
remark that our results directly apply to this padded variant. Speciﬁcally, the
“STB” attack ﬁnds a collision with the same number of blocks, so it readily
extends to this padded variant. Our bounds on the best possible attacks also

166
A. Ghoshal and I. Komargodski
extend to this setting since the argument did not use any speciﬁc property on
the collision blocks. It is interesting to study other practically used variants and
understand if similar results can be obtained. To this end, we hope that the
techniques we develop in this work will be helpful.
From a theoretical perspective, no single function can be collision-resistant
(in the plain model), as a non-uniform attacker can trivially hardwire a collision.
This is why collision resistance is considered with respect to a family of hash
functions indexed by a key called salt. The salt is chosen after the attacker is
ﬁxed (and so is the non-uniform advice about the family of functions). Still, in
practice, a single hash function is typically deﬁned by ﬁxing an IV, making it
insecure against non-uniform attackers. This contrasts with how we deﬁne the
collision resistance game, where the IV is chosen randomly after the prepro-
cessing phase. Thus, it may seem that the expensive preprocessing needed for
attacks in our model does not represent real-life scenarios. However, often the
hash function used in a particular application (relying on collision-resistance)
is salted by prepending a random salt value to the input. One such well-known
application is password hashing [29]. Such salting essentially corresponds to the
random-IV setting considered here, and, therefore, the attack becomes relevant
again.
The primary motivation for our work is to make progress towards the STB
conjecture, which we view as a fundamental problem. To this end, we focused
on asymptotic bounds as a function of S, T, and B. We hope that the concrete
bounds could be improved in future works, aﬀecting design choices of real-life
hash functions.
Follow Up Work. A recent work of Akshima, Guo, and Liu [4] proved a new
bound on the maximal possible advantage in ﬁnding B-block collisions. Their
bound is overall incomparable to ours: it is better than our Theorem 1.2 but
worse than Theorem 1.1. Also, Freitag et al. [17] studied related problems in the
context of sponge hashing, an alternative to the Merkle-Damg˚ard paradigm that
underlies (for instance) the SHA-3 standard.
2
Our Techniques
In this section, we provide a high-level overview of our techniques. Both of our
results follow a similar high-level rationale, and thus throughout this overview,
we mainly focus on the techniques for proving the STB conjecture whenever
B P O(1) (Theorem 1.1). Towards the end, we describe the additional ideas
needed to obtain the result for SB ! T (Theorem 1.2).
Before explaining the ideas, let us describe the challenge more precisely. We
are given a compressing function h : [N] × [M] →[N], modeled as a random
oracle, and we want to upper bound the probability of a non-uniform attacker
in ﬁnding a collision in an MDh instance with a random salt. We model non-
uniform attackers by thinking of them as two-stage adversaries A “ (A1, A2).
The oﬄine part A1 is unbounded in running time, and its only restriction is
that it can output only S bits. This output is the non-uniform advice given to

On Time-Space Tradeoﬀs for Bounded-Length Collisions in MD Hashing
167
the online part A2 which is then allowed to make up to T queries after which it
must output a B-block collision for MDh and terminate. We assume unbounded
running time for both parts A1 and A2 and only restrict the output-size for
A1 and the number of queries for A2. We refer to such a two-stage adversary
(A1, A2) as a (S, T)-adversary. In the context of length-B collisions in MDh, the
game is as follows:
– A1 has unbounded access to h and it outputs σ P {0, 1}S.
– A2 gets σ as input along with a random salt a P [N].
– A2 outputs α, α′.
– A wins if α ̸“ α′, α, α′ consist of ⩽B blocks, and MDh(a, α) “ MDh(a, α′).
There are essentially two main generic approaches known in the literature
for proving bounds of this sort. The ﬁrst is the so-called pre-sampling technique,
originally due to Unruh [30], and the second is a compression argument. The
ﬁrst technique reduces the problem from considering general hash functions and
adversaries (A1, A2) as above to a simpler model (and associated attacker) called
the bit-ﬁxing model. The advantage of the latter model is that it is typically
easier to analyze and results in clean proofs. The second technique is based on a
simple information-theoretic idea that random bits cannot be compressed.5 Thus,
an attacker that succeeds in ﬁnding collisions is used to compress some random
information that is used in the game, and thereby contradiction is reached.
This technique, while being extremely inﬂuential in many ﬁelds and problems in
computer science (e.g., “Algorithmic Lov´asz Local Lemma” [27], lower bounds
on cryptographic constructions [13,18,20], analyzing hardness of problems in the
non-uniform setting [10,15] and time-space tradeoﬀs for quantum algorithms [7]),
often results in technical and complex proofs.
It would have been convenient if any non-trivial bound on our problem could
be obtained using the bit-ﬁxing technique. Unfortunately, Akshima et al. [3]
observed that ﬁnding short collisions is relatively easy in the bit-ﬁxing model.
Hence, the only remaining potentially helpful technique is based on compression.
Indeed, Akshima et al. [3], as their primary technical contribution, managed to
carry out such an argument for the particular case of B “ 2, and already then
their proof is highly non-trivial and consists of a tedious case analysis. We distill
some of the main ideas underlying their general framework approach6 next—this
will be useful for us, as well.
The Framework. We reduce the task of handling arbitrary (S, T)-adversaries
to the problem of handling (S, T)-adversaries, where the preprocessing part A1 is
degenerate and outputs a ﬁxed string σ, independent of h. Speciﬁcally, we deﬁne
a game, parameterized by u P N>0, where A2 has an arbitrary size S string σ
hard-coded, and its goal is to ﬁnd a collision relative to a given salt. A2 wins
the game if it succeeds in ﬁnding a collision when executed with every one of u
uniformly random salts (there is no A1 in this game). The reduction shows that
5 Speciﬁcally, it is impossible to save w bits of information about a random string,
except with probability 2−w.
6 We note that [7] introduced an equivalent framework in independent work.

168
A. Ghoshal and I. Komargodski
if A2 has advantage ϵ in the modiﬁed game, then the best advantage of an (S, T)-
adversary in the original game is (roughly) O(ϵ1/u) for u ≈S. This reduction,
formalized in Lemma 4.1, is adapted from Akshima et al. [3] and it uses the
beautiful “constructive Chernoﬀbound” of Impagliazzo and Kabanets [22].7
The advantage of considering the new game is that there is no A1, so it is
easier to handle. But, to obtain a meaningful result for the original (S, T) game,
say an upper bound of ϵ, we need to prove a somewhat stronger upper bound for
the new game, that is, roughly ϵu. This means, in other words, that we need to
show how to compress about log(1/ϵ) bits per each one of the u salts. (Actually,
keep in mind that it suﬃces to achieve this on average!) For our target ϵ, we
therefore have the following goal.
Main challenge: For every one of the u salts, we need to “save/compress” (on
average) roughly the following number of bits:
log

min

N
uT(log u)2(B−2)B2 , N
T 2

.
By impossibility of non-trivial compression, this would imply that A2 must suc-
ceed with probability at most
ϵ ⩽O
uT(log u)2(B−2)B2
N
` T 2
N
u
,
which would give our result when plugged into the framework.
The Compression Argument. The random string that we shall compress
consists of the set of salts denoted U, as well as the function h. We give encoding
and decoding algorithms that use A2 ﬁrst to encode the pair (U, h) and then use
the result to fully decode them whenever A2 wins the game. If A2 wins with good
enough probability, the output of the encoding procedure will be non-trivially
short with good probability, which is a contradiction.
Remark 1 Akshima et al. [3] used the same approach for B “ 2, but their proof
does not seem to scale for larger values of B. Speciﬁcally, their proof involves
an exhaustive case analysis. It seems like a naive attempt to generalize their
bound to larger values of B would proliferate the number of cases needed to
be analyzed, making it unmanageable. One of our key conceptual insights is a
structural characterization of collisions in MDh that prevents this explosion in
the number of cases needed to be handled. While our analysis applies to any B,
the number of total cases we consider is roughly the same as Akshima et al.
A First Attempt and a Glimpse at the Challenge. Let us make a strong
(and typically false) assumption: the adversary A2 never repeats any query to h
7 The use of this reduction is the main (and perhaps only) point of similarity between
our proof and [3]’s.

On Time-Space Tradeoﬀs for Bounded-Length Collisions in MD Hashing
169
tip
bottom body
tail
top body
Fig. 1. A mouse structure. For ease of visual representation we do not draw the nodes
and edges of the graph, instead represent it as a continuous structure.
across all the u runs.8 Since we can assume (w.l.o.g) that if A2 outputs (α, α′)
when run on salt a, it has queried h at all values needed to compute MDh(a, α)
and MDh(a, α′), we are guaranteed that for each of the salts u P U there are
at least two distinct queries which have the same answer, i.e., a collision. The
indices of these queries reside in [T] as this is the query complexity of A2 when
executed on the particular salt a. Thus, we could avoid encoding the answer
of the second query and instead encode these two indices in T and remove the
answer of the second query from evaluations of h. This saves us log(N/T 2) bits
for every salt, giving us even more savings than what we are aiming for. Such
compression, in turn, would imply that the birthday attack is optimal, no matter
what B is (which makes sense given our assumption but is clearly false for general
attackers).
A naive way to get rid of the assumption (that queries never repeat across
diﬀerent u runs) would be to encode the index of the other query among all
uT queries made (instead of T). But, this would eventually result in another
multiplicative S term in our bound. Namely, we would only be able to save
log(N/(ST 2)) bits per salt which is too little for us (as it leads to a trivial upper
bound). This motivates us to look more closely at how MD collisions are formed,
what kind of queries could be involved, and how we could leverage the fact that
collisions are short to get more eﬃcient encoding.
The Mouse Structure and Query Types. We consider the graph implicitly
formed through the queries made by A2 when running on salts a1, . . . , au P U.
The nodes of the graph are the possible salts and there is a directed edge from
salt a to a′ with label α if h(a, α) “ a′ and this query was made by A2.
Suppose that A2, when run on salt ai, outputs (α, α′). Since A2 wins on every
salt in U, its output on salt ai, denoted α, α′ must satisfy: (1) MDh(ai, α) “
MDh(ai, α′), (2) α ̸“ α′, and (3) α, α′ are at most B blocks long. Without
loss of generality we can assume that the adversary A2 outputs a “minimal”
collision, i.e., one that does not contain a preﬁx which is a collision by itself.
8 While we can assume without loss of generality that A2 does not repeat queries
within a single execution (since it is not memory-bounded), it is not very reasonable
to assume that it will never repeat queries across diﬀerent executions on diﬀerent
salts.

170
A. Ghoshal and I. Komargodski
For instance, say the collision is x1, x2, x3, x4, x5, x6 and y1, y2, y3, y4, y5, y6 (wrt
salt a) and it happens that x1, x2, x3, x4 and y1, y2, y3, y4 already collide (wrt
same salt a), we can simply ignore x5, x6, y5, y6. Considering the core sub-graph
of the query graph that is induced by queries made by A2 that are required to
evaluate MDh(a, α) and MDh(a, α′), we obtain a structure that we call a mouse
structure. Important parts of the mouse structure are the tail, top and bottom
body, and the tip, as depicted in Fig. 1. Our entire approach is based on studying
these mouse structures to come up with encoding strategies.
Given the concept of a mouse structure and our discussion from above about
the adversary, possibly repeating queries motivates us to classify each query into
one of three types. The ﬁrst is called new and refers to queries made for the ﬁrst
time. The rest of the queries are called repeated, and they are further classiﬁed
into two types, depending on whether they previously appeared in some mouse
structure or not. Speciﬁcally, a repeated query is called repeatedMouse if the
same query was already made by A2 when executed on a previous salt, and
otherwise, a repeated query is called repeatedNonMouse.
Intuitively, we want to save bits when the answer of a new query was the
input salt of a repeated query. A repeatedMouse query facilitates such savings
since we can encode the answer to the query by storing its index along with
the index of the previous query and the corresponding index within the mouse
structure—a total of ≈log(uTB) bits instead of log N—which eventually turns
into an STB/N term in the upper bound, as conjectured. The problem is with
encoding repeatedNonMouse queries—there seems to be no trivial way to
write the index of the previously-made query with less than log(uT 2) bits, which
is too much (since it will eventually turn into a ST 2/N term in the upper bound).
Some “Easy” Mouse Structures. We observe that some cases of mouse struc-
tures readily give us a way to have eﬃcient encoding and save suﬃciently many
bits. We oﬀer three examples to convey intuition on how our analysis is done.
Throughout, let us assume that every mouse structure contains at least one new
query—otherwise, we will ignore this mouse structure altogether.9
As a ﬁrst example, if two new queries form the tip of the mouse structure
of salt aj, we can simply encode the index of these queries within the queries
made while handling this salt—this uses 2 log T bits instead of log N bits which
is suﬃcient. As another example, if a self-loop forms the body of the mouse
structure and the self loop query is new or repeatedNonMouse, we can simply
encode the index of the self loop query in the list of queries used to handle this
salt and avoid encoding the answer of the query—this uses log(uT) bits instead
of log N which is again suﬃcient. As the last example, suppose the answer to
a new query is a salt that appeared in some earlier mouse structure. In this
case, we can avoid encoding the answer of the new query and instead encode
9 In the technical section, we refer to salts aj in U that were not the input salt of a
query when running A2 on ai for i < j as fresh. It follows that mouse structures for
fresh salts will always have a new query. For salts that are not fresh, it is relatively
straightforward to achieve some compression by avoiding storing these salts in the
encoding of U. For now, the reader can imagine that all salts are fresh for simplicity.

On Time-Space Tradeoﬀs for Bounded-Length Collisions in MD Hashing
171
a
a
Fig. 2. An example of a “hard” mouse structure. The new queries are drawn in red,
repeatedMouse queries are drawn in blue and the repeatedNonMouse queries are
drawn in green. (Color ﬁgure online)
the index of the query and which of the salts in the previous mouse structures
is the answer—this uses log(2uB) bits (because there are at most 2B salts in
mouse structures and at most u mouse structures) instead of log N which is also
suﬃcient.
Some “Hard” Mouse Structures. The aforementioned easy cases give rise
to a relatively easy encoding that results in an optimal STB/N term. Next,
we focus on the more complex cases, which cause our bound to have the extra
≈B · (log S)B factor.
Assume that there is a mouse structure where there are two salts a′ and a′′
such that a′ is the input salt to a repeatedMouse query, a′′ is the answer to a
new query, and the path from a′′ to a′ in the mouse structure consists of only
repeatedNonMouse queries (as shown in Fig. 2). By deﬁnition, the distance
between a′ and a′′ is at most B.10 Potential savings could be achieved by not
encoding a′′, the answer of the new query, as it can essentially be extracted
from already-observed queries. We can easily encode the appropriate index of
the query in the mouse structure and the salt a′ using roughly log(uB) bits, but
how can we encode the information about the path back from a′ to a′′?
The non-triviality is that for each node on this path, there might be many
possible ways to reach it among all the diﬀerent queries that have been already
made, i.e., if each node on this path has fan-in m, namely an m-multi-collision,
then the natural encoding of the path back would cost at most log(mB) bits,
specifying which back edge to take for every node. Here, m could be very large,
e.g., as large as S or even larger, making the whole result meaningless for most
reasonable parameters settings. (We also need to encode the length of the path,
which would lead to the additional multiplicative B factor, but we ignore it in
the discussion here.)
We get around this problem of m potentially being very large by observing
that one of the following two cases holds:
– Many small multi-collisions: either the fan-in of every node along the path
(i.e., the number of previously-made queries whose result is a node on this
path) is smaller than log u, or
– One large multi-collision: there is (at least one) node on the path where the
fan-in is at least log u.
10 By being slightly more careful, we can show that the distance is B −2 but we ignore
this fact for the overview.

172
A. Ghoshal and I. Komargodski
In the earlier case, we encode the path back as mentioned above, where we
write the index of each back edge. This costs us B·log log u bits, which eventually
translates to an extra (log S)B term,11 as we have in our main theorem. The
question is, what do we do when the second case occurs.
The idea is to leverage the fact that there is a large multi-collision and obtain
our savings from a completely diﬀerent place. Speciﬁcally, we remember the index
of all the queries involved in the multi-collision and the common answer. A cal-
culation reveals that if the collision consists of ≈log u edges, we can already save
enough. One subtlety is that the same multi-collision might repeat throughout
many diﬀerent mouse structures, and we need to make sure not to double count
the savings from a single multi-collision more than what we get. The reason why
we do not double count is that a single large-enough (i.e., with log u edges) multi-
collision saves us enough bits for about log u diﬀerent structures, and at the same
time, such a multi-collision can appear in at most log u mouse structures.12
Let us ﬁnally remark that while the above description conveys the main idea
underlying our compression strategy, it is somewhat simpliﬁed and glossed over
many technicalities and the complete speciﬁcation of all possible cases that our
full proof covers. We refer to Sect. 5 for full details.
Proving the STB Conjecture for S · B ! T. The proof of our second upper
bound follows the same overall structure. The only diﬀerence is, naturally, in the
way we encode reverse paths in mouse structures that have nodes corresponding
to repeatedNonMouse queries between the output a′′ of a new query and a
node a′ corresponding to a repeatedMouse query.
In the earlier proof, when we needed to locate the salt a′′ from salt a′, we
encoded the number of edges in between and all the edges on the path. Here, we
prove a purely graph-theoretic lemma saying that if for salt a′ there are more
than ≈u2 salts a′′ such that there are d > 0 edges on the shortest path back
from a′ to a′′ in the query graph, then there must be t ⩾1 multi-collisions in the
graph, such that the total number of edges involved in the t multi-collisions is
at least ≈u2. While the proof of this lemma is a simple inductive argument, it
turns out to be extremely helpful for us. Speciﬁcally, if there are t ⩾1 diﬀerent
multi-collisions such that a total of at least ≈u2 diﬀerent queries are involved in
the t multi-collisions, we can save enough by only encoding these multi-collisions
and nothing else. To prove this fact, we consider the minimum savings we can get
from encoding these t multi-collisions. We show using some elementary calculus
that if there are ≈u2 queries involved in t diﬀerent multi-collisions, the minimum
saving is more than the total amount of savings we need.
Equipped with this fact, we split our analysis into the two following scenarios.
11 Remember that the actual term is (log S)B−2 and that is why the proof of Akshima
et al. [3], in which it was assumed that B “ 2, did not have an extra term that
depends on S.
12 We mention that multi-collisions in hash functions have been studied on their own
right (e.g., [14,23]), but our context is totally diﬀerent.

On Time-Space Tradeoﬀs for Bounded-Length Collisions in MD Hashing
173
Game Gai-cr
N,M,B A
A1, A2
1. h
$ Fcs N
M
N
2. a
$ N
3. Return AI-CRh,a A
Subroutine AI-CRh,a A
A1, A2
1. σ
$ A1 h
2.
α, α
$ Ah
2 σ, a
3. Return true if:
(a) α
α ,
(b) α, α consist of
B blocks from M ,
(c) MDh a, α
MDh a, α
4. Else, return false
Fig. 3. The bounded-length collision resistance game of salted MD hash in the AI-
ROM, denoted Gai-cr
N,M,B.
1. The ﬁrst is where for each case where we need to encode the location of a′′
from a′ at a distance d, there are at most ≈u2 salts – here we simply encode
the index of the “right” a′′ using ≈log u2 bits.
2. The other scenario is when for at least one case, there are more than ≈u2
salts. Here we can save enough by encoding the t multi-collisions involving at
least ≈log u2 that the graph-theoretic lemma guarantees us. We get enough
savings by only encoding these t multi-collisions.
The u2 term from the ﬁrst scenario above turns into an additional factor of
the form S2 in the ﬁnal bound. Due to additional technicalities that we glossed
over during this overview, we suﬀer another multiplicative factor S in our bound,
which amounts to having an S4 term. Full details appear in Sect. 6.
3
Preliminaries
For a positive integer N P N>0, let [N] “ {1, 2, . . . , N} and for k P N such that
k ⩽N, let
[N]
k
	
denote the set of k-sized subsets of [N]. For a set X, let |X|
be its size and X` denote one or more elements of X. We denote Fcs(D, R) the
set of all functions mapping elements in D to the elements of R. We let x ←$ D
denote sampling x according to the distribution D. We let ∗denote a wildcard
element. For example (∗, z) P L is true if there is an ordered pair in L where z
is the second element (the type of the wildcard element shall be clear from the
context). If D is a set, we overload notation and let x ←$ D denote uniformly
sampling from the elements of D. For a bit-string s we use |s| to denote the
number of bits in s.
When referring to directed graphs in this paper, we mean directed multi-
graphs, i.e., these directed graphs might have parallel edges. All logarithms in
this paper are for base 2 unless otherwise stated.
Auxiliary-Input
Random
Oracle
Model
(AI-ROM).
We
use
the
Auxiliary-Input Random Oracle Model (AI-ROM) introduced by Unruh [30]
to study non-uniform adversaries in the Random Oracle Model. This model is

174
A. Ghoshal and I. Komargodski
parameterized by two non-negative integers S and T and an adversary A is
divided into two stages (A1, A2). Adversary A1, referred to as the preprocessing
phase of A, has unbounded access to the random oracle h and outputs an S-bit
auxiliary input σ. Adversary A2, referred to as the online phase, gets σ as input
and can make T queries to h, attempting to accomplish some goal involving
the function h. Formally, we say that A “ (A1, A2) is an (S, T)-AI adversary if
A1 outputs S bits and A2 issues T queries to its oracle. We next formalize the
salted-collision resistance of MD hash functions in AI-ROM.
Salted Short Collision Resistance of MD in AI-ROM. We formalize the
hardness of bounded-length collision resistance of salted MD hash functions in
the AI-ROM. The game is parametrized by N, M, and B. The game ﬁrst samples
a function h uniformly at random from Fcs([N]×[M], [N]) and a salt a uniformly
at random from [N]. Then, A1 is given unbounded access to h, and it outputs
σ. At this time, A2 is given the auxiliary input σ, a salt a, as well as oracle
access to h, and it needs to ﬁnd α ̸“ α′ such that (1) |α|, |α′| ⩽B · M, and (2)
MDh(a, α) “ MDh(a, α′). This game, denoted Gai-cr
N,M,B, is explicitly written in
Fig. 3. In Fig. 3, we write the adversary’s execution in its own subroutine only
for syntactical purposes (as we shall use it later in our proof).
Deﬁnition 1 (AI-CR Advantage). For parameters N, M, B P N, the advan-
tage of an adversary A against the bounded-length collision resistance of salted
MD in the AI-ROM is
Advai-cr
MD,N,M,B(A) “ Pr

Gai-cr
N,M,B(A) “ true

For parameters S, T P N, we overload notation and denote
Advai-cr
MD,N,M,B(S, T) “ max
A

Advai-cr
MD,N,M,B(A)

,
where the maximum is over all (S, T)-AI adversaries.
The Compression Lemma. Our proof uses the well-known technique of ﬁnd-
ing an “impossible compression”. The main idea, formalized in the following
proposition, is that it is impossible to compress a random element in set X to a
string shorter than log |X| bits long, even relative to a random string.
Proposition 1 (E.g., [13]). Let Encode be a randomized map from X to Y and
let Decode be a randomized map from Y to X such that
Pr
x ←$ X [Decode(Encode(x)) “ x] ⩾ϵ.
Then, log |Y| ⩾log |X| −log(1/ϵ).
4
The Framework: Reducing the Problem
to a Multi-instance Collision Finder
Our task here is to upper-bound the advantage of an adversary in ﬁnding a
short collision in a salted MD, according to the game Gai-cr
N,M,B described in Fig. 3.

On Time-Space Tradeoﬀs for Bounded-Length Collisions in MD Hashing
175
First, without loss of generality, in what follows, we assume that the adversary
is deterministic. This follows since we can transform any probabilistic attacker
into a deterministic one by hard-wiring the best randomness (see Adleman [2]).
We reduce the task of bounding the advantage of an attacker in ﬁnding a short
collision in a salted MD, according to the game Gai-cr
N,M,B, to a “multi-instance”
game where the adversary does not have a preprocessing phase but instead
only has a non-uniform auxiliary input, chosen before the random oracle h. The
latter game is easier to analyze. Although the statement and reduction below
were implicit in the work of Akshima et al. [3], we make it formal and hopefully
useful for future works.
We deﬁne the following “multi-instance” game Gmi-cr
N,M,B,u(σ, A2), where the
preprocessing part of the adversary A1 is degenerate and outputs the ﬁxed string
σ. More precisely, the game has the following steps:
1. h ←$ Fcs([N] × [M], [N])
2. U ←$ [N]
u
	
3. Deﬁne A1 to be the algorithm that always outputs the string σ.
4. Return true if AI-CRh,a(A “ (A1, A2)) “ true for every a P U. Otherwise,
return false.
For a string σ and an adversary A2, deﬁne
Advmi-cr
MD,N,M,B,u(σ, A2) “ Pr

Gmi-cr
N,M,B,u(σ, A2)

.
Lemma 4.1. Fix N, M, B, S, T, u P N>0. Then,
Advai-cr
MD,N,M,B(S, T) ⩽6 ·

max
σ,A2

Advmi-cr
MD,N,M,B,u(σ, A2)
 1
u
` 2S−u,
where the maximum is taken over all σ P {0, 1}S and T-query algorithms A2.
The proof of this lemma is similar to a proof that appears in [3]. For complete-
ness, we provide the full details in the full version [19].
5
Proving the STB Conjecture for B P O(1)
This section proves an upper bound on the advantage of any auxiliary-input
adversary in the bounded-length collision resistance game of salted MD hash in
the AI-ROM. The main theorem is stated next.
Theorem 5.1. Let C “ 216 · 6 · e2. For any N, M, B, S, T P N>0 and ﬁxing
ˆS :“ S ` log N, it holds that
Advai-cr
MD,N,M,B(S, T) ⩽C · max
⎧
⎪
⎨
⎪
⎩
⎛
⎜
⎝
ˆSTB2 
3e log ˆS
log log ˆS
2(B−2)
N
⎞
⎟
⎠,
T 2
N

⎫
⎪
⎬
⎪
⎭
` 1
N .

176
A. Ghoshal and I. Komargodski
Theorem 5.1 follows as a direct corollary of Lemma 4.1 together with the
following lemma and setting u “ S ` log N.
Lemma 5.1 (Hardness for a multi-instance collision ﬁnder).
Fix N,
M, B, S, T, u P N>0 and σ P {0, 1}S. Then, for any A2 that makes at most T
queries to its oracle, it holds that
Advmi-cr
MD,N,M,B,u(σ, A2) ⩽

216e2 · max
uTB2(3e log u/ log log u)2(B−2)
N

,
T 2
N
u
.
The rest of this section is devoted to the proof of Lemma 5.1. Unlike the proof
of Lemma 4.1, the proof of this lemma is novel and diﬀers completely from that
of Akshima et al. [3]. The key conceptual insight is a structural characterization
of collisions in MDh that prevents the explosion in the number of cases that [3]
faced during the case analysis.
We are interested in bounding the advantage of the best strategy, i.e., a
pair (σ, A2) where σ P {0, 1}S is a ﬁxed string and A2 is a T-query algorithm,
of ﬁnding bounded-length collisions in a salted MD with respect to the game
Gmi-cr
N,M,B,u(σ, A2). Recall that in this game, A2 needs to ﬁnd proper collisions for
u randomly chosen salts, denoted U. The main idea in the proof is to use any
such adversary (σ, A2) to represent the function h as well as the set of random
salts U with as few bits as possible. If the adversary is “too good to be true,”
we will get an impossible representation, contradicting Proposition 1.
Non-trivial Range. If either
T 2
N > 1
or
uTB2(3e log u/ log log u)2(B−2)
N
> 1,
then Lemma 5.1 is trivially true. Hence, from now on we assume that both of
the above left hand side terms are upper bounded by 1.
Setup. Denote
ζ∗:“

216e2 · max
uTB2(3e log u/ log log u)2(B−2)
N

,
T 2
N
u
.
Assume the existence of an adversary A “ (σ, A2), where σ P {0, 1}S is a string
and A2 is a T-query adversary, that contradict the inequality stated in the
lemma. That is, there is ζ > ζ∗such that
Advmi-cr
MD,N,M,B,u(A) :“ ζ > ζ∗.
(1)
Deﬁne G to be the set of functions-sets of salts pairs for which the attacker
succeeds in winning the game for every salt in the set relative to the function,
That is,
G “

(U, h)

U P
[N]
u
	
,
h P Fcs([N] × [M], [N]),∀a P U : AI-CRh,a(A) “ true

.

On Time-Space Tradeoﬀs for Bounded-Length Collisions in MD Hashing
177
Recall that ζ is deﬁned to be the advantage of A in the game Gmi-cr
N,M,B,u(A) in
which h and U are chosen uniformly, and then A needs to ﬁnd a collision with
respect to every one of the u salts in U. Therefore,
|G| “ ζ ·
N
u

· N MN.
In what follows we deﬁne an encoding and a decoding procedure such that the
encoding procedure gets as input U, h such that U P
[N]
u
	
and h P Fcs([N] ×
[M], [N]), and it outputs an L bit string, where L “ log

ζ∗·
N
u
	
· N MN
. The
decoding procedure takes as input the string L and outputs U ∗, h∗. It will hold
that U ∗“ U and h∗“ h with probability ζ.13 Using Proposition 1, this would
give us that
log ζ ⩽L −log
N
u

· N MN

“⇒ζ ⩽ζ∗
which is a contradiction to the assumption (see (1)).
Notation and Deﬁnitions. Fix (U, h) P G. Let U “ {a1, . . . , au} where the
ai’s are ordered lexicographically. Let Qrs(a) P ([N]×[M])T be the list of queries
that A2 makes to h when executed with input (σ, a). Namely, for a P [N],
Qrs(a) “ {(a′, α′) P [N] × [M] | A2(σ, a) queries h on (a′, α′)} .
Note that Qrs(a) is indeed a set as we can assume (without loss of generality)
that A2 never repeats queries in a single execution (since A2 can just store all
of its past queries).
We say that a′ P Slts(a) if there is some α′ P [M] such that (a′, α′) is an entry
in Qrs(a). Namely, for a, a′ P [N],
a′ P Slts(a) ⇐⇒∃α′ P [M] s.t. (a′, α′) P Qrs(a).
We deﬁne the set of fresh salts in U. A salt ai for i P [u] is called fresh if it was
never used as the salt in any query performed by A2 while being executed on
salts aj for j ⩽i−1 which are fresh. The ﬁrst salt a1 is always fresh. A salt ai for
i ⩾2 is fresh if for any fresh aj for j ⩽i −1, ai /P Slts(aj). Namely, denoting the
set of fresh salts by Ufresh, we have the following inductive (on i P [u]) deﬁnition:
ai P Ufresh ⇐⇒∀j ⩽i −1, aj P Ufresh : ai ̸P Slts(aj).
Looking ahead, we deﬁne Ufresh like this because we run A2 on the salts in Ufresh
in lexicographical order, and this deﬁnition ensures that each salt that A2 is
executed on was not queried by it previously. Denote
F :“ |Ufresh|
and
Ufresh “ {a′
1, . . . , a′
F } (ordered lexicographically).
13 Essentially, we will show that for all (U, h) P |G|, if the encoding procedure produces
output L, then the decoding procedure on input L outputs U ∗, h∗such that U ∗“ U
and h∗“ h.

178
A. Ghoshal and I. Komargodski
Denote
∀i P [F]: Qi :“ Qrs(a′
i)
and
Qfresh :“ Q1 ∥. . . ∥QF ,
where ∥is the concatenation operator. Let Qfresh[r] be the rth query in the list
Qfresh. Note that r P [F ·T]. For every a P U \Ufresh, let ta be the minimum value
such that Qfresh[ta] is a query with salt a. Deﬁne the set of prediction queries as
P :“ {ta | a P U \ Ufresh}.
The encoding algorithm will output Ufresh, P, which suﬃces to recover the set U
by running A2.
We let ˜h be the list of h(a, α) values when executed on distinct queries in
Qfresh, in the same order as they appear in Qfresh, followed by the evaluation of
h on the following values in lexicographical order of the inputs.
{(a, α) : a P [N], α P [M]} \ Qfresh .
Therefore, ˜h is initialized to contain the evaluation of h at all points in its domain.
Looking ahead, in the encoding procedure, we will remove elements from ˜h as
needed to compress h.
Function and Query Graphs. A notion that will be useful is that of a “func-
tion graph”.
Deﬁnition 2 (Function graph). For a function h : [N]×[M] →[N], consider
the following directed graph: it has N nodes labelled with elements of [N] and
each node has exactly M outgoing edges, each labelled with elements of [M].
There is an edge from node ai to aj labelled α if and only if h(ai, α) “ aj.
We deﬁne the notion of query graph for an adversary as follows.
Deﬁnition 3 (Query
graph). Execution of an adversary A2
on salts
a′
1, . . . , a′
F deﬁnes a query graph as follows. Initially the graph is empty. When-
ever A2 queries (a, α) to h, we add a node with label a if not already present and
add an edge (a, h(a, α)) with label α if not already present.
Fact 5.2. The query graph is always a sub-graph of the function graph of h.
Structure of Collisions: The Mouse Structure. Since adversary A2 suc-
ceeds on all of the salts in U, it holds that for every j P [F], the output of the
adversary is (αj, α′
j) such that αj ̸“ α′
j, MDh(aj, αj) “ MDh(aj, α′
j) and both
αj, α′
j are at most B blocks long. We can assume without loss of generality that
the colliding messages αj and α′
j are “minimal” (because otherwise, we can trim
αj, α′
j to obtain a shorter collision). The evaluations of h in order to compute
MDh(a′
j, αj) and MDh(a′
j, α′
j) induce a structure that we call a mouse struc-
ture as shown in Fig. 4. More explicitly, suppose the output of the A2 is (αj “
(αj,1, . . . , αj,B1), α′
j “ (α′
j,1, . . . , α′
j,B2)) for B1, B2 ⩽B such that αj,i “ α′
j,i

On Time-Space Tradeoﬀs for Bounded-Length Collisions in MD Hashing
179
for all 1 ⩽i ⩽k where k ⩾0. Deﬁne (x1, . . . , xk, y1, . . . , yk′, z1, . . . , zk′′) where
k′ “ B1 −k, k′′ “ B2 −k as follows.
x1 “ h(a′
j, αj,1) , xi “ h(xi−1, αj,i) for 1 < i ⩽k
y1 “

h(a′
j, αj,1)
if k “ 0
h(xk, αj,k`1)
otherwise , yi “ h(yi−1, αj,i`k) for 1 < i ⩽B1 −k
z1 “

h(a′
j, α′
j,1)
if k “ 0
h(xk, α′
j,k`1)
otherwise , zi “ h(zi−1, α′
j,i`k) for 1 < i ⩽B2 −k
Then (x1, . . . , xk, y1, . . . , yk′, z1, . . . , zk′′) form a mouse structure as speciﬁed in
tip
z1, . . . , zk
bottom body
x1, . . . , xk
tail
y1, . . . , yk
top body
Fig. 4. A mouse structure. For ease of visual representation we do not draw the nodes
and edges of the graph, instead represent it as a continuous structure.
Fig. 4. Without loss of generality, we can assume that the mouse structure is
present in the query graph of A2 before it outputs the answer for salt a′
j. We
refer to this structure as the mouse structure for salt a′
j.
We deﬁne MouseQrsj to be the set of queries in the mouse structure. Similarly,
we deﬁne MouseSltsj as the set of salts that comprise the mouse structure. By
deﬁnition, 1 ⩽|MouseQrsj|, |MouseSltsj| ⩽2B.
Classifying Queries. We classify every one of the queries in Qfresh into one of 3
types by scanning through them in order. Recall that Qfresh consists of F blocks,
each consisting of T queries. Each block contains a mouse structure as in Fig. 4.
The ﬁrst type of query is called new. A new query did not appear in any previous
block. Non-new queries are called repeated and they are classiﬁed further into
one of 2 types: repeatedMouse, and repeatedNonMouse. A query (a, α)
would be a repeatedMouse query if it was made as part of a mouse structure
during some earlier salt in Ufresh. Lastly, a repeatedNonMouse query is one
that was made before but is not part of any mouse structure. That is,
1. new: A query with index r P [F ·T] is new if there does not exist r′ < r such
that Qfresh[r′] “ Qfresh[r].
2. A non-new queries is called repeated. We classify the latter into two subcat-
egories:

180
A. Ghoshal and I. Komargodski
(a) repeatedMouse: A query in Qj with index s P [T] such that h(Qj[s]) “
a is repeatedMouse if it is not new and Qj[s] P MouseQrsi for some
i < j.
(b)
repeatedNonMouse: A query in Qj with index s P [T] such that
h(Qj[s]) “ a is repeatedNonMouse if it is not new, Qj[s] ̸P MouseQrsi
for all i < j.
Note that this classiﬁcation covers all queries made during execution. The fol-
lowing is a simple observation.
Claim 5.3. Every mouse structure has at least one new query.
Proof. For every j P [F], the queries in Qj with salt a′
j are necessarily new
because we deﬁned Ufresh to contain a′
j’s that were not queried earlier by A2
when run on a′
i for i < j, and also assumed that A2 does not repeat queries
during a single execution.
■
5.1
The Compression Argument
As mentioned, our goal is to compress (U, h), and we will achieve this by using
our collision ﬁnding adversary A2. The encoding procedure shall output the set
Ufresh, the set P, the list ˜h with some entries removed and additional lists and
sets. We will be describing the details of these lists and sets below and which
entries we remove from ˜h. Our main goal is to show that we are compressing
when we remove entries of ˜h and instead use additional lists and set. Our ways to
compress will depend on the induced mouse structure in each Qj for j P [F]. To
this end, we ﬁrst classify the mouse structures into six broad cases. We classify
the jth mouse structure for each j P [F] into the ﬁrst of the following six cases
it satisﬁes, e.g., if a mouse structure satisﬁes both cases 2 and 3, we categorize
it into 2.
1. There is a new query (a, α) such that h(a, α) “ a.
2. There are two distinct new queries (a1, α1), (a2, α2) such that h(a1, α1) “
h(a2, α2).
3. There is a new query (a, α) such that h(a, α) “ a′ and a′ P MouseSltsi for
some i < j.
4. There is a repeatedNonMouse query (a, α) such that h(a, α) “ a.
5. There is at least one salt a such that a P MouseSltsi for some i < j and there
is a path of at most B −2 edges in the mouse structure from a back to a′
where a′ is an answer to a new query.
6. There are no repeatedMouse queries in the mouse structure.
Note that these cases cover all mouse structures.
Claim 5.4. Every mouse structure can be categorized into one of the cases 1
to 6.

On Time-Space Tradeoﬀs for Bounded-Length Collisions in MD Hashing
181
Proof. We will show that if a mouse structure does not satisfy case 6, it has
to satisfy case 5, which suﬃces to prove our claim. Since the mouse structure is
not in 6, it has a repeatedMouse query. Let the input salt of this query be
a. Moreover, since the ﬁrst query of the mouse structure has to be new, let the
answer salt of this query be a′. Since the longest path in the mouse structure is
of length B, it follows that there are at most B −2 edges in the mouse structure
between a and a′. Hence, case 5 is satisﬁed.
■
Compression Budget. Recall that we need to prove that the size of the output
of the encoding procedure is
L “ log

216e2 · max

uTB2m2(B−2)
0
N

,
T 2
N
u
·
N
u

· N MN

bits, where m0 “ 3e log u/ log log u. In other words, we need to show that the
encoding procedure saves at least
u · log

min

N
4T 2 ,
N
4uTB2m2(B−2)
0

−2u log e −14u
(2)
bits overall.
Required Savings in ˜h. As mentioned earlier, the output of the encoding
algorithm will consist of Ufresh, P, ˜h, and some additional sets and lists. The lists
Ufresh and P will suﬃce to recover the set U. The list ˜h and the additional sets
and lists are used to recover h.
Denoting |Ufresh| “ F and |U| “ u, we can describe P using
 F T
u−F
	
bits.
Therefore, U, which is trivially described using log
N
u
	
bits, can be encoded
using log
 F T
u−F
	N
F
	
bits. Therefore, the saving in bits in the description of U
is at least
log
N
u

−log
 FT
u −F
N
F

⩾log
⎛
⎜
⎝
 N
u
	u

eF T
u−F
u−F  eN
F
	F
⎞
⎟
⎠
“ (u −F) log
 N
FT

−log

eu  u
F
F 
u
u −F
u−F 
⩾(u −F) log
 N
uT

−u log 4e .
(3)
where the ﬁrst inequality uses the basic bounds for binomial coeﬃcients (n/r)r ⩽
n
r
	
⩽(en/r)r, and the last inequality follows since ∀x ⩾0: x ⩽2x, and u ⩾F.

182
A. Ghoshal and I. Komargodski
By subtracting (3) (how much we save in U) from (2) (how much we need to
save in total), it suﬃces to show that we save at least
u · log

min

N
4T 2 ,
N
4uTB2m2(B−2)
0

−2u log e
−14u −(u −F) log
 N
uT

` u log 4e
bits
while
encoding
h.
Since
log(N/uT)
⩾
log

min
 
N/4T 2, N/4uTB2
m2(B−2)
0

, this is at most the following number of bits.
F · log

min

N
4T 2 ,
N
4uTB2m2(B−2)
0

−u log e −12u
(4)
To show that the compression indeed achieves the savings from (4), we will
show that for every salt in Ufresh, we can save at least the following number of
bits, except for a few cases.
log

min

N/4T 2, N/4uTB2m2(B−2)
0

.
In the rare cases where we cannot save as much, we will incur a small penalty.
We will show that the cumulative penalty we incur is at most 7u ` u log e bits.
Additionally, we will label each of the salts in F with a few bits that describe its
“type” (according to the cases described above – case 5 will have 3 subcategories,
and case 6 will have 10 subcategories), and for this 5 bits will suﬃce. This will
cost, in total, another 5u bits, and therefore the total size of the encoding will
indeed be bounded by the term from (4).
We now describe the details of how we handle each case. Assuming that the
mouse structure for salt a′
j satisﬁes a particular case, we describe the encoding
procedure, calculate the amount of compression we get, and then explain how
decoding would work. In Sect. 5.2 we handle Cases 1 to 4, in Sect. 5.3, we handle
case 5, and lastly in the full version [19], we handle case 6. Here we describe the
details such that they are locally veriﬁable. We do provide the full pseudocode
of encoding and decoding in the full version [19].
5.2
Handling Cases 1 to 4
In each of the four cases below, we will be saving more bits than we need, i.e.,
more bits than log

min

N/4T 2, N/4uTB2m2(B−2)
0

.
Case 1. The jth mouse structure contains a new query (a, α) such that h(a, α) “
a, as depicted in Fig. 5a. The encoding procedure stores the index of the query
(a, α) in Qj in a list L1 and removes the entry h(a, α) from ˜h.
In decoding, if the current (jth) salt is categorized as case 1, then it removes
the front index in the list L1, and denote the index by i. It answers the ith h
query, denoted (a, α), with a and sets h(a, α) “ a.

On Time-Space Tradeoﬀs for Bounded-Length Collisions in MD Hashing
183
(a) Case 1
(b) Case 2
(c) Case 3
(d) Case 4
Fig. 5. Cases 1 to 4. The new queries are drawn in red, the repeatedMouse queries
are drawn in blue, and the repeatedNonMouse queries are drawn in green. The black
dashed lines indicate zero or more queries of any type. (Color ﬁgure online)
Since the index of the query (a, α) in Qj is in [T], and we remove one element
of ˜h, we save log(N/T) which is more than what we need to save.
Case 2. The jth mouse structure contains two distinct new queries (a1, α1),
(a2, α2) such that h(a1, α1) “ h(a2, α2), and (a1, α1) is queried before (a2, α2).
This is depicted in Fig. 5b. The encoding procedure stores the pair indices of the
queries (a1, α1), (a2, α2) in Qj in a list L2 and removes the entry h(a2, α2) from
˜h.
In decoding, if the current (jth) salt is categorized as case 2, then it removes
the front element (i1, i2) in the list L2. Suppose that the i1th h query while
running on salt a′
j is on (a1, α1). The decoding procedure gets the answer to this
query from ˜h. It answers the i2th h query on (a2, α2) with h(a1, α1) and sets
h(a2, α2) “ h(a1, α1).
Since the pair of indices of the queries (a1, α1), (a2, α2) in Qj are in [T], and
we remove one element of ˜h, we save log(N/T 2) bits which is more than what
we need to save.
Case 3. The jth mouse structure contains a new query (a, α) such that h(a, α) “
a′ and a′ P MouseSltsi for some i < j. This is depicted in Fig. 5c. The encoding
procedure stores the tuple consisting of i, the index of the query (a, α) in Qj,
and the lexicographical order of a′ in MouseSltsi in a list L3 and removes the
entry h(a, α) from ˜h.
In decoding, if the current (jth) salt is categorized as case 3, it removes the
front element (i1, i2, i3) in the list L3. Suppose the i2th h query while running
on salt a′
j is on (a, α). It answers the query with a′ such that a′ is the salt in
MouseSltsi1 whose lexicographical order is i3. It sets h(a, α) “ a′.
Since i P [F], F ⩽u, the index of (a, α) in Qj is in [T], the lexicographical
index of a′ in MouseSltsi is in [2B], and we remove one element of ˜h, we save
log(N/(2uTB)) bits which is more than what we need to save.
Case 4. The jth mouse structure contains a repeatedNonMouse query (a, α)
such that h(a, α) “ a. This is depicted in Fig. 5d. The encoding procedure stores

184
A. Ghoshal and I. Komargodski
the smallest index of the query (a, α) in Qfresh in a set S and removes the entry
h(a, α) from ˜h. Note that we never add an index corresponding to the same
query multiple times to S. Indeed, if an index associated with (a, α) already
appears in S, the next query on (a, α) will be a repeatedMouse query and not
a repeatedNonMouse one, meaning that it cannot be added to S again.
In decoding, if the current (jth) salt is categorized as case 4, it checks for
every h query on (a, α) whether S contains the index of the query in Qfresh. If so
it answers with a and sets h(a, α) “ a.
Since the smallest index of the query (a, α) in Qfresh is in [FT], and we remove
one element of ˜h, we save at least log(N/(uT)) which is more than necessary.
5.3
Handling Case 5
In this section, we describe our compression strategy in case the jth mouse
structure for salt a′
j is categorized as case 5. That is, there is at least one salt d
such that d P MouseSltsi for some i < j and there are at most B −2 edges in the
mouse structure between d and s where s is an answer to a new query. If there
are several possible candidate pairs, we choose one where the number of edges
is the smallest between the source and the destination salt.
Intuition. We refer to the salt s in the answer to the new query as the source
salt, and the salt that appears in some earlier mouse structure as the destina-
tion. We are guaranteed that the path in the mouse structure from the source
salt to the destination salt consists of at most B −2 edges that are repeated-
NonMouse queries. (There is at least one intermediate edge between the source
and the destination because otherwise, the answer of a new query will be the
input of a repeatedMouse query, in which case this scenario would have been
classiﬁed into case 3. Additionally, all the intermediate edges must be repeat-
edNonMouse since we consider the shortest possible path from such source to
such destination.)
Let the new query, whose answer is s, be (a, α). Suppose the path from
the s to the d in the mouse structure consists of repeatedNonMouse queries
(a1, α1), . . . , (ap, αp) where a1 “ s, p ⩽B −2. The main idea is to avoid encod-
ing s “ h(a, α) and recover it by encoding the lexicographical order of d in
MouseSltsi and encoding the path required to backtrack from d to s in the query
graph at the time (a, α) is queried, i.e., encoding which of the past queries were
(ap, αp), . . . , (a1, α1) (in this order). The problem is that, in general, the path
back from d to s might be too expensive to encode. This depends on the number
of “other” edges incident on the nodes on the real path back from t to s. If
all nodes on the path have very few edges incident on them, say less than m0
of them, we encode each back edge using log m0 bits per node, which requires
with at most log(B(m0)B−2) bits for the whole path back (the term B comes
from encoding the length of the path). But, if some node has many adjacent
edges, namely a multi-collision with more than m0 edges, we will need to take
advantage of this fact to obtain our savings (and not encode the path back from
d to s).

On Time-Space Tradeoﬀs for Bounded-Length Collisions in MD Hashing
185
Deﬁnition 4 (Large multi-collision). We say that queries q1, · · · , qm form
an m-way multi-collision if all the qi’s are distinct and all the h(qi) are equal. We
say that the multi-collision is large if m ⩾m0, where m0 :“ 3e log u/ log log u.
If any of the queries in (ap, αp), . . . , (a1, α1) are involved in a large multi-collision
of repeatedNonMouse queries in the query graph so far, we say we have
“encountered a large multi-collision”. In what follows, we explain how to obtain
the required compression if a large multi-collision was not encountered.
Encoding When No Large Multi-collision. Suppose that the new query
whose answer is the source salt s is (a, α), the destination salt is d and d P
MouseSltsi for some i < j. The path back from d to s contains only nodes that
have at most m0 adjacent edges in the corresponding query graph since we have
not encountered a large multi-collision. The encoding procedures constructs a
tuple consisting of the index i, the index of query (a, α) in Qj, the lexicographical
index of d in MouseSltsi, and the path back from d to s in the query graph when
(a, α) is queried. It stores the tuple in a list L5. Finally, it removes the entry
h(a, α) from ˜h.
In decoding, if the current (jth) salt is categorized as case 5 without a large
multi-collision, it detects the query (a, α) from its index in Qj, then ﬁnds the
salt d using the index i and the lexicographical order of d in MouseSltsi, and
ﬁnally ﬁnds s using the path back from d to s. It answers the query with s.
Since i P [F], the index of (a, α) in Qj is in [T], the lexicographical index
of a′ in MouseSltsi is in [2B], the path back from d to s can be encoded
in log(B(m0)B−2) bits, and we remove one element of ˜h, we save at least
log(N/(2uTB2(m0)B−2)) bits which is more than necessary.
Encoding with Large Multi-collision. Suppose that the new query whose
answer is the source salt s is (a, α), the destination salt is d and d P MouseSltsi
for some i < j. Suppose further that the path back from d to s contains at least
one node that has m ⩾m0 adjacent edges in the corresponding query graph (i.e.,
an m-multi-collision) such that these m edges are repeatedNonMouse queries
when running A2 on aj. First, observe that the multi-collision does not involve a
self-loop. Indeed, if any node in the mouse structure has a repeatedNonMouse
query whose answer is itself, the mouse structure would be classiﬁed into case 4,
and therefore we will never reach this case.
At this point, we argue that we can record the multi-collision by encoding
the indices of all queries associated with the multi-collision and the center, and
remove their answers from ˜h. To this end, we store log N ` log
F T
m
	
bits and
remove m log N bits. We have that the saving is at least
m log N −log N −log
FT
m

⩾log

N m−1 ·
 m
eFT
m
⩾log
 N
uT
m−2
· N
T 2 · mm
emu2

⩾log
 N
uT
m−2
· N
T 2

(5)

186
A. Ghoshal and I. Komargodski
bits, where the ﬁrst inequality follows by using the binomial inequality
F T
m
	
⩽
(eFT/m)m, the second inequality follows since F ⩽u, and the last inequality
follows since for m ⩾m0 “ 3e log u/ log log u it holds that mm ⩾emu2. Thus,
Claim 5.5. The number of bits saved is at least
(m −1) · log

min

N
T 2 ,
N
uTB2m2(B−2)
0

.
Proof. The claim follows since the minimum between the two terms is always
upper bound by N/(uT) and upper bounded by N/T 2.
■
Thus, every m-multi-collision we record allows us to save the number of bits
corresponding to m −1 mouse structures. It is left to argue that we do not
over-count, namely, that we do not count the removal of the same element from
˜h twice. Indeed, the same multi-collision may be encountered in several mouse
structures. To this end, observe that if a salt in a mouse structure is the center
of a large multi-collision which we had recorded earlier, we will be in one of the
following two cases:
1. There is a query in this mouse structure whose answer is the center of the
multi-collision, and this query was in an earlier mouse structure.
2. There is a query in this mouse structure whose answer is the center of the
multi-collision, and this query was not in any earlier mouse structure. (Note
that by the structure of collisions, i.e., a mouse structure, there could be
either one such query or two.)
Case 1 need not be handled. The reason is that if the condition in it holds,
then the multi-collision is, in fact, outside of the (shortest) path from the source
to the destination. Therefore the scenario will either be classiﬁed as a mouse
structure without a large multi-collision or a diﬀerent large multi-collision will
be encountered for this mouse structure.
In case 2, ﬁrst note that when we encounter a multi-collision, we add the
relevant queries to the multi-collision if they were not already recorded and only
then remove the corresponding entry from ˜h. Therefore, we never remove any-
thing twice. The last point we need to argue is that the we get enough savings.
Above we showed that we have suﬃcient saving for m −1 mouse structures.
Recall that we deﬁned that we encounter a large multi-collision if at least m0
repeatedNonMouse queries are involved in a multi-collision on some path
we care about. It follows from this that a multi-collision of size m will be rele-
vant in at most m −m0 mouse structures- beyond that, it will no longer be a
multi-collision because there will be less than m0 repeatedNonMouse queries
among the queries of the multi-collision. Since m0 ⩾1, savings for m −1 mouse
structures is suﬃcient for us.
Overall, as claimed earlier, case 5 has 3 diﬀerent further categorizations– no
multi-collisions and the two cases for multi-collisions.
The general ideas required for handling case 6 are similar to what we have
already presented, but there are some subtleties. See full details in the full ver-
sion [19].

On Time-Space Tradeoﬀs for Bounded-Length Collisions in MD Hashing
187
6
Proving the STB Conjecture for SB ! T
This section proves another upper bound on the advantage of any auxiliary-input
adversary in the bounded-length collision resistance game of salted MD hash in
the AI-ROM. The main theorem is stated next.
Theorem 6.1. Let C “ 29 · 6 · e4. For any N, M, B, S, T P N>0 and ﬁxing
ˆS :“ S ` log N, it holds that
Advai-cr
MD,N,M,B(S, T) ⩽C · max
T 2
N

,
 ˆS4TB2
N

` 1
N .
The proof of this theorem mostly mirrors that of Theorem 5.1, except in the
way that few of the cases are handled in the compression argument. Technically,
we derive the following Lemma 6.1 (an analogue of Lemma 5.1), and combine it
with Lemma 4.1 to get the claimed bound in Theorem 6.1.
Lemma 6.1. Fix N, M, B, S, T, u P N>0, σ P {0, 1}S. Then, for any A2 that
makes at most T queries to its oracle, it holds that
Advmi-cr
MD,N,M,B,u(σ, A2) ⩽

29e4 max
u4TB2
N

,
T 2
N
u
.
The proof of this lemma is in the same spirit as the proof of Lemma 5.1 with
several key diﬀerences. The main diﬀerence is how we encode the path back from
a given destination node to the associated source node. In Sect. 5, we do this in
a somewhat straightforward manner by encoding the length of the path and
then the index of every edge to take, where the index might be large if there is
a large multi-collision associated with that node. Large-enough multi-collisions
were handled separately, so we had a bound (m0 ≈log u/ log log u) for the range
of the index of each back-edge. In this section, we encode the source node by just
writing its lexicographic index among all possible sources within a given distance
in the query graph. Of course, there might be too many possible sources at a
given distance, making it too expensive to encode. But, and this is our main
technical observation in this section, if there are too many possible sources, then
there must be many large multi-collision, and therefore we can save enough bits
by taking advantage of it.
We proceed by setting up the graph-theoretic deﬁnitions and lemmas. In the
lemma below, we show that if in the query graph there is a node v such that
there are at least p nodes which have a shortest path of length d to the node
v, then there must be at least p −1 edges involved in a multi-collision in the
induced sub-graph.
Deﬁnition 5 (d-neighborhood of a vertex). Let G “ (V, E) be a directed
graph. We say that a node v1 P V is in the d-neighborhood of v2 P V if the
shortest directed path from v1 to v2 in G consists of (exactly) d edges.

188
A. Ghoshal and I. Komargodski
Deﬁnition 6 (multi-collision of edges in a graph). For an edge e “ (a, b),
we refer to b as the target of the edge. We say that edges e1, · · · , em form a
m-multi-collision if all of them share a common target. We refer to the common
target as the center of the multi-collision. We refer to m as the size of the multi-
collision.
Lemma 6.2. Let G “ (V, E) be a directed graph. Let d P N>0 and p P N>0 such
that p ⩾2. Suppose that there is a node v P V such that there are p distinct
nodes in its d-neighborhood. Then, there are t ⩾1 distinct nodes in G, such that
each of them have in-degree βi ⩾2 for i “ 1, . . . , t, and !t
i“1(βi −1) ⩾p −1.
The proof of this lemma is via an inductive argument and appears in the full
version [19].
A direct corollary is that in the query graph, if for any salt s there are at least
p`1 salts in its d-neighborhood, then there must be p queries involved in multi-
collisions on the paths from the nodes in its d-neighborhood to s. We obtain
non-trivial compression for large enough p by encoding those multi-collisions.
Non-trivial Encoding for Multiple Multi-collisions. We consider t multi-
collisions of sizes β1, . . . , βt. We encode these t multi-collisions by encoding the
t centers of the multi-collision, and for each center, we encode the index of the
queries in Qfresh that form the multi-collision in a set. Recall that the indices of
the queries in Qfresh are in [FT]. The total number bits we need to encode is
log
N
t
FT
β1

· · ·
FT −!t−1
i“1 βi
βt

⩽log

N t(uT)
t
i“1 βi
t!β1!β2! · · · βt!

“ log
N t(u4T)β−2tT 2tu8t−3β
t!β1!β2! · · · βt!

, (6)
where the inequality follows by using
n
r
	
⩽nr
r! and F ⩽u, and the equality
follows by letting β “ !t
i“1 βi and rearranging.
Claim 6.2. If β ⩾e3u2/2, then Eq. (6) ⩽log

N t(u4T)β−2tT 2t	
.
We defer the proof of this claim to the full version [19]. From this claim it follows
that when β ⩾e3u2/2, by storing the multi-collisions as above, the amount of
bits saved is at least
log N β −log

N t(u4T)β−2tT 2t	
“ t log
 N
T 2

` (β −2t) log
 N
u4T

⩾(β −t) log

min
 N
T 2 , N
u4T

⩾u log

min
 N
T 2 , N
u4T

,
where the second inequality follows since t ⩽β/2, and β/2 ⩾e3u2/4 ⩾u2 ⩾u.
For the bound that we want to get in this section, the amount of bits we need
to save per mouse structure is log

min
 N
T 2 ,
N
u4T B2
"	
(see explanation below),
and so we indeed save enough from encoding one such set of multi-collisions.

On Time-Space Tradeoﬀs for Bounded-Length Collisions in MD Hashing
189
The Compression Argument. We encode a source node from a destination
node by encoding the distance and which of the nodes at the given distance from
the destination node is the source node. If the number of candidate nodes at the
speciﬁed distance is larger than e3u2/2, by Lemma 6.2, we are guaranteed that
there exist t multi-collisions of size β1, β2, . . . , βt such that β ⩾!t
i“1(βi −1) ⩾
e3u2/2. This implies, by Claim 6.2, that we can already save enough by only
encoding this set of multi-collisions. Using this argument we prove Lemma 6.1
which in turn implies Theorem 6.1, as explained above. We defer the proof of
Lemma 6.1 to the full version [19].
Acknowledgments. Ilan Komargodski is supported in part by an Alon Young Faculty
Fellowship, by a JPM Faculty Research Award, by a grant from the Israel Science
Foundation (ISF Grant No. 1774/20), and by a grant from the US-Israel Binational
Science Foundation and the US National Science Foundation (BSF-NSF Grant No.
2020643). Part of Ashrujit Ghoshal’s work was done during an internship at NTT
Research.
References
1. Abusalah, H., Alwen, J., Cohen, B., Khilko, D., Pietrzak, K., Reyzin, L.: Beyond
Hellman’s time-memory trade-oﬀs with applications to proofs of space. In: Takagi,
T., Peyrin, T. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2017. LNCS, vol. 10625, pp. 357–379. Springer,
Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-70697-9 13
2. Adleman, L.: Two theorems on random polynomial time. In: Symposium on Foun-
dations of Computer Science, SFCS, pp. 75–83 (1978)
3. Akshima, Cash, D., Drucker, A., Wee, H.: Time-space tradeoﬀs and short colli-
sions in Merkle-Damg˚ard hash functions. In: Micciancio, D., Ristenpart, T. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2020. LNCS, vol. 12170, pp. 157–186. Springer, Cham (2020). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-56784-2 6
4. Akshima, Guo, S., Liu, Q.: Time-space lower bounds for ﬁnding collisions in
Merkle-Damg˚ard hash functions. In: Dodis, Y., Shrimpton, T. (eds.) CRYPTO
2022. LNCS, vol. 13509, pp. 192–221. Springer, Cham (2022)
5. Barkan,
E.,
Biham,
E.,
Shamir,
A.:
Rigorous
bounds
on
cryptanalytic
time/memory tradeoﬀs. In: Dwork, C. (ed.) CRYPTO 2006. LNCS, vol. 4117,
pp. 1–21. Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/10.1007/11818175 1
6. Chawin, D., Haitner, I., Mazor, N.: Lower bounds on the time/memory trade-
oﬀof function inversion. In: Pass, R., Pietrzak, K. (eds.) TCC 2020. LNCS, vol.
12552, pp. 305–334. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
64381-2 11
7. Chung, K., Guo, S., Liu, Q., Qian, L.: Tight quantum time-space tradeoﬀs for
function inversion. In: FOCS, pp. 673–684 (2020)
8. Coretti, S., Dodis, Y., Guo, S.: Non-uniform bounds in the random-permutation,
ideal-cipher, and generic-group models. In: Shacham, H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2018. LNCS, vol. 10991, pp. 693–721. Springer, Cham (2018). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-96884-1 23

190
A. Ghoshal and I. Komargodski
9. Coretti, S., Dodis, Y., Guo, S., Steinberger, J.P.: Random oracles and non-
uniformity. In: Nielsen, J.B., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2018. LNCS, vol.
10820, pp. 227–258. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
78381-9 9
10. Corrigan-Gibbs, H., Kogan, D.: The discrete-logarithm problem with preprocess-
ing. In: Nielsen, J.B., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2018. LNCS, vol. 10821, pp.
415–447. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-78375-8 14
11. Corrigan-Gibbs, H., Kogan, D.: The function-inversion problem: barriers and
opportunities. In: Hofheinz, D., Rosen, A. (eds.) TCC 2019. LNCS, vol. 11891, pp.
393–421. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-36030-6 16
12. Damg˚ard, I.: Collision free hash functions and public key signature schemes. In:
Chaum, D., Price, W.L. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 1987. LNCS, vol. 304, pp. 203–216.
Springer, Heidelberg (1988). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-39118-5 19
13. De, A., Trevisan, L., Tulsiani, M.: Time space tradeoﬀs for attacks against one-
way functions and PRGs. In: Rabin, T. (ed.) CRYPTO 2010. LNCS, vol. 6223, pp.
649–665. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-14623-
7 35
14. Dinur, I.: Tight time-space lower bounds for ﬁnding multiple collision pairs and
their applications. In: Canteaut, A., Ishai, Y. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2020. LNCS,
vol. 12105, pp. 405–434. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-45721-1 15
15. Dodis, Y., Guo, S., Katz, J.: Fixing cracks in the concrete: random oracles with
auxiliary input, revisited. In: Coron, J.-S., Nielsen, J.B. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2017.
LNCS, vol. 10211, pp. 473–495. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-319-56614-6 16
16. Fiat, A., Naor, M.: Rigorous time/space trade-oﬀs for inverting functions. SIAM
J. Comput. 29(3), 790–803 (1999)
17. Freitag, C., Ghoshal, A., Komargodski, I.: Time-space tradeoﬀs for sponge hashing:
attacks and limitations for short collisions. In: Dodis, Y., Shrimpton, T. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2022. LNCS, vol. 13509, pp. 131–160. Springer, Cham (2022)
18. Gennaro, R., Trevisan, L.: Lower bounds on the eﬃciency of generic cryptographic
constructions. In: FOCS, pp. 305–313 (2000)
19. Ghoshal, A., Komargodski, I.: On time-space tradeoﬀs for bounded-length col-
lisions in Merkle-Damg˚ard hashing. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2022/309
(2022)
20. Ghoshal, A., Tessaro, S.: On the memory-tightness of hashed ElGamal. In: Can-
teaut, A., Ishai, Y. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2020. LNCS, vol. 12106, pp. 33–62.
Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-45724-2 2
21. Hellman, M.E.: A cryptanalytic time-memory trade-oﬀ. IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory
26(4), 401–406 (1980)
22. Impagliazzo, R., Kabanets, V.: Constructive proofs of concentration bounds. In:
Serna, M., Shaltiel, R., Jansen, K., Rolim, J. (eds.) APPROX/RANDOM -2010.
LNCS, vol. 6302, pp. 617–631. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-642-15369-3 46
23. Joux, A.: Multicollisions in iterated hash functions. Application to cascaded con-
structions. In: Franklin, M. (ed.) CRYPTO 2004. LNCS, vol. 3152, pp. 306–316.
Springer, Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-28628-8 19
24. Merkle, R.C.: Secrecy, authentication and public key systems. Ph.D. thesis, UMI
Research Press, Ann Arbor, Michigan (1982)

On Time-Space Tradeoﬀs for Bounded-Length Collisions in MD Hashing
191
25. Merkle, R.C.: A digital signature based on a conventional encryption function.
In: Pomerance, C. (ed.) CRYPTO 1987. LNCS, vol. 293, pp. 369–378. Springer,
Heidelberg (1988). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48184-2 32
26. Merkle, R.C.: A certiﬁed digital signature. In: Brassard, G. (ed.) CRYPTO 1989.
LNCS, vol. 435, pp. 218–238. Springer, New York (1990). https://doi.org/10.1007/
0-387-34805-0 21
27. Moser, R.A., Tardos, G.: A constructive proof of the general lov´asz local lemma.
J. ACM 57(2), 11:1–11:15 (2010)
28. Oechslin, P.: Making a faster cryptanalytic time-memory trade-oﬀ. In: Boneh, D.
(ed.) CRYPTO 2003. LNCS, vol. 2729, pp. 617–630. Springer, Heidelberg (2003).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-45146-4 36
29. Sr, R.H.M., Thompson, K.: Password security - a case history. Commun. ACM
22(11), 594–597 (1979)
30. Unruh, D.: Random oracles and auxiliary input. In: Menezes, A. (ed.) CRYPTO
2007. LNCS, vol. 4622, pp. 205–223. Springer, Heidelberg (2007). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-540-74143-5 12
31. Yao, A.C.: Coherent functions and program checkers (extended abstract). In:
STOC, pp. 84–94 (1990)

