Public-Key Watermarking Schemes
for Pseudorandom Functions
Rupeng Yang1,2(B), Zuoxia Yu1,2, Man Ho Au1, and Willy Susilo2
1 Department of Computer Science, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China
orbbyrp@gmail.com , allenau@cs.hku.hk
2 Institute of Cybersecurity and Cryptology, School of Computing and Information
Technology, University of Wollongong, Wollongong, NSW, Australia
wsusilo@uow.edu.au
Abstract. A software watermarking scheme can embed a message into
a program while preserving its functionality. The embedded message can
be extracted later by an extraction algorithm, and no one could remove it
without signiﬁcantly changing the functionality of the program. A water-
marking scheme is public key if neither the marking procedure nor the
extraction procedure needs a watermarking secret key. Prior construc-
tions of watermarking schemes mainly focus on watermarking pseudoran-
dom functions (PRFs), and the major open problem in this direction is
to construct a public-key watermarkable PRF.
In this work, we solve the open problem via constructing public-key
watermarkable PRFs with diﬀerent trade-oﬀs from various assumptions,
ranging from standard lattice assumptions to the existence of indistin-
guishability obfuscation. To achieve the results, we ﬁrst construct water-
marking schemes in a weaker model, where the extraction algorithm is
provided with a “hint” about the watermarked PRF key. Then we upgrade
the constructions to standard watermarking schemes using a robust unob-
fuscatable PRF. We also provide the ﬁrst construction of robust unobfus-
catable PRF in this work, which is of independent interest.
1
Introduction
A software watermarking scheme allows one to embed a message into a program
without signiﬁcantly changing its functionality. Moreover, any attempt to remove
the embedded message would destroy the functionality of the watermarked pro-
gram. Watermarking schemes have many real-world applications, including own-
ership protection, traitor tracing, etc., and recently, it is also applied in new
applications such as quantum copy-protection [ALL+21,KNY21].
The theoretical study of software watermarking is initiated by Barak et al.
[BGI+01] and Hopper et al. [HMW07], where formal deﬁnitions are presented.
They also explore the (im)possibility to achieve certain deﬁnitions of watermark-
ing and study connections between diﬀerent deﬁnitions. However, neither of them
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
Y. Dodis and T. Shrimpton (Eds.): CRYPTO 2022, LNCS 13508, pp. 637–667, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15979-4_22

638
R. Yang et al.
provides a concrete construction. It is notoriously hard to construct watermark-
ing schemes with provable security, and early constructions [NSS99,YF11,Nis13]
are only proven secure against restricted adversaries, which are not allowed to
change the format of the watermarked object.
Cohen et al. [CHN+16] propose the ﬁrst watermarking scheme with provable
security against arbitrary removal strategies. They also show that it is impossible
to watermark learnable functions. A natural class of non-learnable functions
are the cryptographic ones, such as pseudorandom function (PRF). Therefore,
Cohen et al. and subsequent works mainly study watermarking for cryptographic
functionalities, with a primary focus on watermarkable PRFs, which can be
applied to construct watermarking schemes for various primitives in minicrypt
and has many real-world applications as discussed in [CHN+16]. In this work,
we also consider watermarking schemes for PRFs.
Watermarking PRFs. A watermarkable PRF is a PRF family F with two addi-
tional algorithms, namely, the marking algorithm and the extraction algorithm.
The marking algorithm takes as input the mark key, a message, and a PRF key
k, and outputs a watermarked circuit, which approximately evaluates Fk(·). The
extraction algorithm extracts the embedded message from a watermarked cir-
cuit with an extraction key. Its main security property is unremovability, which
requires that given a watermarked circuit C∗for a random PRF key (namely,
the challenge key), the adversary is not able to produce a circuit that agrees
with C∗on almost all inputs, yet the extraction algorithm fails to extract the
original message from it. The mark key and the extraction key are generated
when setting up the scheme, and a watermarking scheme is public key if both
the mark key and the extraction key can be made public. Also, a secret-key
watermarking scheme has public extraction (resp. public marking) if it is secure
against an adversary with the extraction key (resp. mark key).
The ﬁrst construction of watermarkable PRF is presented by Cohen et al.
in [CHN+16]. The construction is based on an indistinguishability obfuscation
(iO) and has public extraction. Then in [YAL+19], Yang et al. improve Cohen et
al.’s scheme to further achieve collusion resistant security, where the adversary
is allowed to view multiple watermarked circuits for the challenge key. However,
in both constructions, the mark key should be kept private.
In another line of work, Boneh et al. [BLW17] propose a new approach that
builds watermarkable PRF from variants of constrained PRFs [BW13,KPTZ13,
BGI14]. The scheme in [BLW17] is still instantiated from iO. Then in [KW17],
Kim and Wu present the ﬁrst watermarkable PRF from standard assumptions.
Later, in [PS18,PS20], Peikert and Shiehian also instantiate the construction
in [BLW17] from standard lattice assumptions. However, these schemes need a
secret key in both the marking algorithm and the extraction algorithm.
Subsequent works explore how to construct watermarkable PRF with stronger
security from standard assumptions. In [QWZ18,KW19], watermarkable PRFs
that have public marking are constructed. The schemes also achieve security with
extraction queries, where the adversary can learn extraction results of its gener-
ated circuits. However, they do not have standard pseudorandomness against an

Public-Key Watermarking Schemes for Pseudorandom Functions
639
adversary with the extraction key. Recently, in [YAYX20], Yang et al. upgrade pre-
vious watermarkable PRFs from standard assumptions to further achieve collusion
resistance. Nonetheless, none of these schemes support public extraction.
Motivation. There are no candidate constructions of public-key watermarkable
PRFs in the literature. Even worse, in previous secret-key watermarkable PRFs,
the watermarking authority, who holds the secret key, can remove the watermark
embedded in any watermarked circuit. This is a severe threat to all users. In
contrast, in a public-key watermarking scheme, no one has this privilege since
the scheme does not have such secret key. Therefore, no trust assumption is
needed in a public-key watermarking scheme and it can provide a much better
security guarantee in practice. This raises the following natural question:
Can we construct public-key watermarkable PRFs?
There are a few technical barriers towards this goal. First, existing approaches
for achieving public marking [QWZ18,KW19] will lead to a watermarkable PRF
that is only pseudorandom against adversaries without the extraction key of
the scheme, and one can compromise its pseudorandomness using the extraction
key. This relaxed pseudorandomness is acceptable in the secret extraction setting
since the extraction key is held by an authority. However, there is no authority
for a public-key watermarking scheme. Thus, if we combine previous ideas for
obtaining public marking and that for obtaining public extraction, we will get a
public-key watermarkable “PRF” without pseudorandomness.
Moreover, known techniques for constructing watermarkable PRFs with pub-
lic extraction rely on iO. Despite recent breakthrough [JLS21] that constructs
indistinguishability obfuscations from well-founded assumptions, the construc-
tion is not post-quantum secure. Thus, new ideas that construct watermarkable
PRFs with public extraction from standard lattice assumptions are desired.
Our Results. In this work, we aﬃrmatively answer the above question and
present constructions of public-key watermarking schemes for PRFs. To over-
come the technical issues, we introduce a new framework that constructs water-
markable PRFs from an unobfuscatable PRF [BGI+01] with robust learnability
[BP13] and a new primitive called hinting watermarkable PRF, which relaxes a
standard watermarking scheme by allowing its extraction algorithm to use an
extra “hint” about the watermarked PRF key. We remark that via our frame-
work, we can obtain (public-key) watermarkable PRFs with standard pseudo-
randomness from (public-key) hinting watermarkable PRFs with relaxed pseu-
dorandomness, and this solves the ﬁrst technical issue described above. We then
construct public-key hinting watermarkable PRFs from either standard lattice
assumptions or iO, with diﬀerent trade-oﬀs that will be discussed below. To
obtain the lattice based constructions, we introduce some new techniques for
achieving public extraction from standard lattice assumptions. Besides, we con-
struct the ﬁrst unobfuscatable PRF with robust learnability in this work. The
new framework, notion and constructions may ﬁnd further applications.1
1 For example, we can apply our new framework to upgrade the watermarking schemes
in [QWZ18,KW19] to achieve full pseudorandomness, by viewing them as (secret-
key) hinting watermarkable PRFs. This solves an open problem in these two works.

640
R. Yang et al.
Table 1. Properties achieved by existing watermarkable PRFs. For the parameter
ϵ, the term “≈
1
2” denotes that ϵ =
1
2 −
1
poly, the term “negl” denotes that ϵ can
be any negligible function, the term “1/exp” denotes that ϵ is equal to a concrete
value that is exponentially-small, and the term “≈1
6” denotes that ϵ = 1
6 −
1
poly. We
use “CR” to denote collusion resistant unremovability. We consider pseudorandomness
against an adversary with the mark key and the extraction key (even for a secret-key
watermarking scheme). We use “UK” to denote pseudorandomness of PRF evaluations
using unmarked keys and use “MK” to denote pseudorandomness of PRF evaluations
using marked keys.
Message
Public
Public
Unremovability
Pseudorandomness
Assumptions
Embedding Marking Extraction
ϵ
CR UK
MK
[CHN+16]
✓
✗
✓
≈1
2
✗
✓
✗
Lattice+iO
[BLW17]
✓
✗
✗
negl
✗
✓
✗
Lattice+iO
[YAL+19]
✓
✗
✓
negl
✓
✓
✗
Lattice+iO
[KW17]
✓
✗
✗
negl
✗
✓
✗
Lattice
[QWZ18]
✓
✓
✗
≈1
2
✗
✗
✗
Lattice
[KW19]
✓
✓
✗
≈1
2
✗
✓‡
✗
Lattice
✓
✗
✗
negl
✓
✓
✗
Lattice
[YAYX20]
✓
✓
✗
≈1
2
✓
✓‡
✗
Lattice
✗
✓
✓
negl
-
✓
✓
Lattice
✓
✓
✓
1/exp
✓
✓
✓
Lattice
✗
✓
✓
≈1
6
-
✓
✓
Lattice+FHE
✓
✓
✓
negl
✗
✓
✓
Lattice+iO
This Work
✓
✓
✓
≈1
6
✗
✓
✓
Lattice+FHE+iO
‡: A weaker T-restricted pseudorandomness (see [KW19]) is achieved.
By instantiating our constructions, we obtain public-key watermarkable PRFs
from diﬀerent assumptions. We consider three types of assumptions in this work,
namely, standard lattice assumptions, the assumption that the GSW encryption
scheme [GSW13] is circular secure2, and the existence of iO. The three assumptions
are denoted as “Lattice”, “FHE”, and “iO” respectively. Also, we consider construc-
tions in either the mark-embedding setting, where a program is either marked or
unmarked, or the message-embedding setting, where a marked program is embed-
ded with a message. Besides, we use ϵ to denote the fraction of inputs of the water-
marked circuits that can be modiﬁed by the adversary when deﬁning unremovabil-
ity. More precisely, let λ be the security parameter, we have:
• From Lattice, we construct a public-key watermarkable PRF in the mark-
embedding setting, where ϵ = negl(λ), i.e., the scheme guarantees that an
adversary cannot remove the mark in a watermarked circuit if it modiﬁes the
circuit on a negligible fraction of inputs.
• From Lattice, we construct a public-key watermarkable PRF in the message-
embedding setting. The scheme also has collusion resistant security. A caveat
of this construction is that it only has exponentially-small ϵ, i.e., the adversary
can modify the watermarked circuit on at most M = 2n/2poly(λ) inputs, where
n is the input length. Nonetheless, we still have M = 2poly(λ).
2 Formal deﬁnition for this assumption can be found in the full version.

Public-Key Watermarking Schemes for Pseudorandom Functions
641
Lattice
iO
FHE
Secret-Key Watermarkable
PRF with Public Extraction
Puncturable
PRF
Functional
Encryption
One Way
Function
Public-Key Hinting Watermarkable PRF
Robust Unobfuscatable PRF
Public-Key Watermarkable PRF
Sec. 7
Full Version
Full Version
Sec. 5.2
Sec. 6.2
Full Version
Fig. 1. The roadmap for constructing public-key watermarkable PRFs from concrete
assumptions. The dotted lines denote results from previous work.
• From Lattice and FHE, we construct a public-key mark-embedding water-
markable PRF with ϵ = 1/6 −1/poly(λ).
• From Lattice and iO, we construct a public-key message-embedding water-
markable PRF with ϵ = negl(λ).
• From Lattice, FHE and iO, we construct a public-key message-embedding
watermarkable PRF with ϵ = 1/6 −1/poly(λ).
Features of our constructions, together with comparison with previous water-
markable PRFs are presented in Table 1. Also, we illustrate how to instantiate
our public-key watermarkable PRFs from concrete assumptions in Fig. 1.
We stress that all public-key watermarkable PRFs constructed in this work
have pseudorandomness for marked keys, i.e., no one could distinguish outputs
of a watermarked PRF key and outputs of a random function. This property
is not achieved in previous watermarkable PRFs with public extraction. This is
because in these constructions, an adversary with an extraction key can extract
meaningful information via oracle access to the marked key. In our construction,
we circumvent this barrier by using a white-box extraction algorithm, where the
algorithm must view the code of the marked key. We refer the reader to [Zha21]
for a more detailed discussion on the notion of white-box tracing/extraction.
Open Problems. We initiate the study of public-key watermarkable PRFs in
this work. We give mark-embedding constructions from lattice and message-
embedding constructions from iO. We also construct a lattice based message-
embedding scheme, but it restricts the parameter ϵ = 1/2poly(λ). This is smaller
than the parameter ϵ in previous works, which is either a constant number
or restricted by any (rather than a concrete) negligible function. The main
open problem is therefore to construct a message-embedding public-key water-
markable PRF with larger ϵ from standard lattice assumptions. Besides, in our
mark-embedding constructions and iO based constructions, we need additionally
assume circular security of the GSW scheme to achieve a constant ϵ. It will be
interesting to obtain constant ϵ without such additional assumptions.

642
R. Yang et al.
Another important security property that is not discussed in this paper is
unforgeability, which requires that no one could watermark a new program without
a mark key. This property is useful for certifying the watermarked objects in the
ownership protection scenario. It was believed that watermarking schemes with
public marking contradicts with unforgeability, since there is no secret mark key
in the scheme. However, as shown in [YAYX20], the conﬂict can be overcome via
deﬁning security in a hybrid model, where the unremovability and pseudorandom-
ness are deﬁned against an adversary with the mark key (i.e., the mark key can
be made public when considering these two security properties), and the unforge-
ability is deﬁned against an adversary without the mark key. They also construct
watermarkable PRFs secure in this hybrid model, but their techniques cannot be
applied to our constructions here. It is an interesting open problem to construct a
public-key watermarkable PRF with unforgeability in the hybrid model.
2
Technical Overview
In this section, we provide a technical overview of our constructions of public-
key watermarkable PRFs. We ﬁrst consider a relaxed notion of watermarking,
where each PRF key is associated with a “hint” that can be used to help extract
messages. We call it hinting watermarking and in Sect. 2.1, we explain our main
ideas for constructing public-key hinting watermarkable PRFs. Then in Sect. 2.2,
we show how to upgrade a public-key hinting watermarkable PRF to a standard
public-key watermarkable PRF by using an unobfuscatable PRF with “robust
learnability”. Existing constructions of unobfuscatable PRFs [BGI+01] do not
have robust learnability and in Sect. 2.3, we describe how to achieve it.
2.1
Constructing Public-Key Hinting Watermarkable PRFs
The syntax of a hinting watermarkable PRF is identical to a standard water-
markable PRF except that each of its PRF keys is associated with a hint and the
hint is used in the extraction algorithm to help extract messages. We assume
that the extraction algorithm always uses the correct hint when deﬁning the
security of a hinting watermarking scheme, i.e., given a (modiﬁed) watermarked
PRF key, the hint associated with the PRF key will be employed in the extrac-
tion algorithm. Besides, we require its security to hold against an adversary that
has the hint associated with the challenge key, yet we only need its pseudoran-
domness to hold against an adversary without the hint. Next, we describe how
to construct public-key hinting watermarkable PRFs.
Construction from Indistinguishability Obfuscation. We ﬁrst present a
general construction of public-key hinting watermarkable PRF from a water-
markable PRF F with secret marking and public extraction. Our main strategy
is to generate a fresh mark key/extraction key pair for each PRF key. In this
way, there are no global mark keys that should be kept secret. In addition, we
set the hint for a PRF key as its extraction key and this allows the extraction
key to be used in the extraction algorithm.

Public-Key Watermarking Schemes for Pseudorandom Functions
643
In more detail, the PRF key of the public-key hinting watermarkable PRF
is K = (mk, k) and the associated hint is hint = ek, where (mk, ek) is a
mark key/extraction key pair of F and k is a PRF key of F. Given the PRF
key K = (mk, k) and an input x, the evaluation algorithm of the new scheme
runs the evaluation algorithm of F on input (k, x), and given K = (mk, k) and
a message msg, the marking algorithm of the new scheme runs the marking
algorithm of F on input (mk, k, msg). Besides, given a circuit C and a hint
hint = ek, the extraction algorithm runs the extraction algorithm of F on input
(ek, C). Security of the constructed public-key hinting watermarkable PRF comes
from the assumption that the correct hint is always used and the fact that F is
unremovable even if ek is public.
Now, if we instantiate this general construction from previous watermarkable
PRFs with public extraction [CHN+16], we obtain public-key hinting water-
markable PRFs from iO. Next, we propose constructions from cryptographic
primitives that can be instantiated from standard lattice assumptions, including
puncturable PRF, functional encryption, etc.
Mark-Embedding Public-Key Hinting Watermarking from Lattices.
First, we consider mark-embedding public-key hinting watermarkable PRFs.
The Starting Point. The starting point of our construction is a watermarking
scheme with public marking and secret extraction presented in [QWZ18]. The
scheme is built on a puncturable PRF [SW14] and a public key encryption
(PKE). A puncturable PRF F is a family of PRF that allows one to derive
a punctured key kx∗from a PRF key k, where Fkx∗(·) and Fk(·) evaluate iden-
tically on almost all inputs except at the “punctured” point x∗. Its security
requires that given the punctured key kx∗, Fk(x∗) is still pseudorandom.
Here, we slightly modify the scheme and describe it as a hinting watermarking
scheme. Its extraction key is a secret key of the PKE scheme. Also, the PRF
key K = k is a key of the puncturable PRF F, and the hint is hint = (x∗, ct∗),
where x∗is a random input of F and ct∗is an encryption of y∗= Fk(x∗). Given
a PRF key K = k and an input x, the evaluation algorithm outputs Fk(x).
Also, on input a PRF key K = k, the marking algorithm punctures k on x∗and
generates a circuit C s.t. C(x) = Fkx∗(x). To test if a circuit C is watermarked, the
extraction algorithm ﬁrst recovers y∗by decrypting ct∗in the hint and outputs
“marked” iﬀC is punctured (i.e., C(x∗) ̸= y∗).
By security of the puncturable PRF and the PKE scheme, y∗is hidden from
an adversary given a watermarked circuit and the hint. Thus, the adversary
cannot create a circuit that outputs y∗on input x∗and security of the scheme
follows. However, when the extraction key, which is the secret key of the under-
lying PKE scheme, is made public, the adversary will be able to recover y∗from
ct∗and thus compromise security of the scheme.
On Achieving Public Extraction. We solve the problem by designing an extrac-
tion algorithm that tests if output of a circuit equals to a given value without
knowing the target value. This is achieved by using an injective one way function

644
R. Yang et al.
f. More precisely, in our new scheme, there are no extraction keys and the cipher-
text ct∗in the hint is replaced with z∗= f(y∗) (i.e., hint = (x∗, z∗)), where
y∗= Fk(x∗). For a PRF key K = k, the evaluation algorithm still outputs Fk(x)
on input x and the marked version of K is still a circuit C s.t. C(x) = Fkx∗(x).
Besides, to test if a circuit C is watermarked, the extraction algorithm outputs
“marked” iﬀz∗̸= f(C(x∗)).
The new extraction algorithm actually tests if C(x∗) is not equal to y∗. Also,
security of the one way function plus security of the puncturable PRF guarantee
that the adversary cannot learn y∗from a watermarked circuit and the hint.
Thus, it is not able to produce a circuit that outputs y∗on input x∗. Therefore,
our new construction achieves security in the public extraction setting and thus
is a secure public-key hinting watermarkable PRF.
Message-Embedding Public-Key Hinting Watermarking from Lat-
tices. Next, we show how to construct public-key hinting watermarkable PRFs
with message embedding from lattices. The construction relies on a functional
encryption (FE) scheme [BSW11,O’N10] and is inspired by the construction
of watermarkable PKE scheme presented in [GKM+19]. In a nutshell, an FE
scheme is a PKE scheme that associates each secret key skf with a function f,
where the secret keys can be derived from a master secret key. Besides, by using
the secret key skf to decrypt a ciphertext that encrypts a plaintext m, one can
obtain f(m), but nothing else.
From FE to Publicly Veriﬁable Puncturing. We can use the FE scheme to realize
a puncturable “PRF” that supports public veriﬁability of punctured keys. More
precisely, we set the normal PRF key as a secret key skfε of FE, where fε(t∥μ) =
μ. Also, we puncture the key on (inputs that encrypts) plaintexts with preﬁx t∗
by generating a key skft∗, where ft∗(t∥μ) = μ if t ̸= t∗and ft∗(t∥μ) = 0 if t = t∗.
To evaluate the PRF (with either a normal PRF key or a punctured key), the
evaluation algorithm just decrypts the input with the secret key. Note that the
normal PRF key and the punctured key function identically on an input if it
encrypts a plaintext with preﬁx t ̸= t∗. In addition, given a punctured key, one
could not learn any information about μ from punctured inputs that encrypt
t∗∥μ, due to security of the FE scheme. Finally, given the master public key, one
can publicly check if a key is punctured on plaintexts with preﬁx t∗by sampling
a random μ, encrypting t∗∥μ, and checking if its decryption is not equal to μ.
From Publicly Veriﬁable Puncturing to Public-Key Hinting Watermarking. The
FE-based puncturable “PRF” with public veriﬁability implies a public-key hint-
ing watermarkable “PRF” with mark embedding immediately. In particular, the
PRF key of the scheme is K = (msk, skfε), where msk is a master secret key
of FE and skfε is a secret key derived from msk. The hint for K is the master
public key mpk for msk. Given an input x, the evaluation algorithm decrypts x
with skfε and outputs the decryption result. The marking algorithm punctures
skfε on a public random string t∗and outputs a circuit that decrypts inputs with
the punctured key. Given a circuit C, the extraction algorithm outputs “marked”
iﬀthe circuit is punctured on plaintexts with preﬁx t∗. The extraction algorithm
can be run publicly with the hint mpk since the underlying puncturable PRF

Public-Key Watermarking Schemes for Pseudorandom Functions
645
is publicly veriﬁable. Also, security of the hinting watermarking scheme follows
from security of the puncturable PRF directly.
On Supporting Message Embedding. Based on this, we construct hinting water-
marking scheme with message embedding by employing the message embed-
ding technique introduced in [GKM+19,YAL+19]. To support this, we deﬁne
gε(ind∥t∥μ) = μ and deﬁne
gmsg,t∗(ind∥t∥μ) =

0
If t = t∗∧ind ≥msg
μ
Otherwise
In the message-embedding construction, the PRF key is K = (msk, skgε) and
the hint is still the corresponding master public key. The evaluation algorithm
decrypts the input with skgε, and to embed a message msg into a PRF key,
the marking algorithm generates a circuit that decrypts with the secret key
skgmsg,t∗. Then, to extract the embedded message from a circuit C, the extraction
algorithm will test if the circuit is punctured on preﬁx ind∥t∗for all possible3 ind
and output msg if it is not punctured on preﬁx (msg −1)∥t∗, but is punctured
on preﬁx msg∥t∗.
Now, given a watermarked circuit embedded with a message msg∗, the adver-
sary cannot modify the embedded message since by security of the FE scheme:
1. The adversary cannot distinguish a ciphertext encrypting ind∥t∗∥μ from a
ciphertext that encrypts a random plaintext if ind < msg∗. As the adversary
is not allowed to change the functionality of the watermarked circuit too
much, it cannot puncture on these ciphertexts.
2. The adversary cannot learn μ from a ciphertext encrypting ind∥t∗∥μ if
ind ≥msg∗, thus it cannot “unpuncture” the watermarked circuit on these
punctured points.
Similarly, we can show that the construction is collusion resistant if the under-
lying FE is collusion resistant.
On Achieving Pseudorandomness. The above construction actually does not have
pseudorandomness. We solve the problem by using a PKE scheme with pseudoran-
dom ciphertexts and a PRF F. In more detail, we add a secret key k of F in both
the normal PRF key and the marked keys. Then the evaluation algorithm (resp.
the marked circuit) will encrypt the output of the evaluation algorithm (resp. the
marked circuit) of previous construction with the PKE scheme, where the encryp-
tion randomness is Fk(x). Note that we can put the secret key of the PKE scheme
into the hint and thus the extraction algorithm can still test if a given circuit is
punctured on plaintexts with a speciﬁc preﬁx. Thus, security of the scheme still
holds. In addition, its pseudorandomness is guaranteed by the (ciphertext) pseu-
dorandomness of the underlying PRF and PKE scheme.
On Instantiating the FE Scheme. In above discussion, we implicitly assume that
all ciphertexts in the ciphertext space of the FE scheme (i.e., the input space of
3 Here, we assume that the message space of the hinting watermarking scheme is
of polynomial-size, and this restriction can be removed if we use the jump ﬁnding
technique introduced in [BCP14,NWZ16].

646
R. Yang et al.
the hinting watermarkable PRF) can be output by the encryption algorithm.
However, to the best of our knowledge, existing FE schemes from standard
assumptions [GVW12,GKP+13,AR17,AV19] do not satisfy this property. Even
worse, in all of these schemes, the ratio between the number of honestly encrypted
ciphertexts and the size of the ciphertext space is exponentially-small. Thus, we
have to carefully deal with those “invalid” ciphertexts, which are not output by
the encryption algorithm, in the ciphertext space.
First, to ensure that the functionality of a PRF key will not change signiﬁcantly
after watermarking, we need to guarantee that both the normal PRF key and the
watermarked PRF key, which use diﬀerent secret keys of the FE scheme, evalu-
ate identically on input an invalid ciphertext. We achieve this by requiring the FE
scheme to have a special correctness, namely, given any secret key and any invalid
ciphertext, the decryption result is always a decryption failure symbol ⊥. We con-
struct FE scheme with this correctness property from any FE scheme with perfect
correctness and statistically sound non-interactive zero-knowledge (NIZK) proofs.
Besides, since the ratio ρ between the number of valid ciphertexts and the
number of all possible ciphertexts is exponentially-small, the adversary can dam-
age the evaluation on all valid ciphertexts and thus remove the embedded mes-
sage even if it can only modify the watermarked circuit on a negligible fraction of
inputs. We circumvent this problem by requiring that the adversary has to sub-
mit a circuit that agrees with the watermarked circuit on a (1−ρ·(1−1/poly(λ)))
fraction of inputs. Note that even with this restriction, the adversary can still
modify the watermarked circuit on exponentially-many inputs.
Remark 2.1. Our FE based construction only allows the adversary to modify
the watermarked circuit on an exponentially-small fraction of inputs. Actually,
a simple construction from any PRF also satisﬁes this weak security requirement.
In particular, the marking algorithm replaces the PRF outputs with the embed-
ded message if the input has preﬁx 0λ, and the extraction algorithm runs the
watermarked circuit on random inputs with preﬁx 0λ and outputs the majority
of the evaluation results. In this construction, the marking algorithm changes
the PRF on 1/2λ fraction of inputs, and an adversary can remove the watermark
only if it changes the watermarked circuit on about 1/2λ+1 fraction of inputs.
However, the scheme is less preferable for the following two reasons:
• In this construction, the adversary can remove the watermark by merely
changing the circuit on half of the points modiﬁed by the marking algorithm.
In contrast, the marking algorithm in our construction only changes the out-
put on a negligible fraction of valid ciphertext, and the adversary has to
change the outputs on nearly all valid ciphertexts to remove the watermark.
• Our construction will have a good parameter if we use an FE scheme with
dense valid ciphertexts in its ciphertext space, but it seems impossible to
improve the parameter of the simple construction described above.
We also would like to stress that our goal is to explore the possibility of building
full-ﬂedged public-key watermarkable PRFs from standard assumptions rather
than constructing a watermarking scheme with weak security guarantee. We

Public-Key Watermarking Schemes for Pseudorandom Functions
647
demonstrate that the goal is achievable, but our solution has some restrictions.
The restrictions can be removed via either using a better FE scheme or improving
the proposed construction. We believe our result would inspire future works that
completely solve the problem.
2.2
From Public-Key Hinting Watermarkable PRFs to Public-Key
Watermarkable PRFs
Next, we discuss how to transform a public-key hinting watermarkable PRF to
a public-key watermarkable PRF. Note that a hinting watermarking scheme is
already a standard watermarking scheme except that its extraction algorithm
needs the correct hint for the given watermarked key. Thus, the main problem
here is how to send the correct hint to the extraction algorithm.
To complete this task, we use an unobfuscatable PRF with robust learnabil-
ity. In a nutshell, in an unobfuscatable PRF UF, each secret key uks is embedded
with a secret information s. The function UFuks(·) is still pseudorandom if the
adversary is only given oracle accesses to it. In addition, one can learn the secret
information s given any circuit that implements the function. An unobfuscatable
PRF has robust learnability if the secret information s can be learned from any
circuit that approximately implements UFuks(·), i.e., the circuit may diﬀer from
the function on a small fraction of inputs.
Given a public-key hinting watermarkable PRF HF and an unobfuscatable
PRF UF, we can construct a public-key watermarkable PRF as follows. The PRF
key of the new scheme includes the PRF key k of HF and the PRF key ukhint of
UF, where hint is the hint for k and is embedded into ukhint as the secret informa-
tion. Given an input x, the evaluation algorithm outputs (HFk(x), UFukhint(x)).
To embed a message msg into the PRF key, the marking algorithm ﬁrst gen-
erates kmsg by embedding msg to k and then outputs a circuit C s.t. C(x) =
(HFkmsg(x), UFukhint(x)). Finally, given a circuit C, the extraction algorithm ﬁrst
recovers hint from the second part of the circuit and then extracts the message
from the ﬁrst part of the circuit with hint.
Robust learnability of UF ensures that the extracted hint is correct, thus,
security of the new scheme comes from the security of the underlying hinting
watermarking scheme directly. The above construction also has pseudorandom-
ness for unmarked keys due to the pseudorandomness of the underlying schemes,
but it would not have pseudorandomness for marked keys if the underlying hint-
ing watermarkable PRF does not have this property (recall that we do not require
it when deﬁning hinting watermarkable PRFs).
On Achieving Pseudorandomness for Marked Keys. We solve this issue by addi-
tionally using a PRF F to mask outputs of HF in both the evaluation algorithm
and the marked circuit. The key k′ of F is also embedded into the PRF key of
UF and this allows the extraction algorithm to obtain k′ and use it to unmask
outputs of HF. In this way, security of the scheme is preserved. Besides, pseu-
dorandomness of UF guarantees that k′ is hidden to an adversary that can only
access the marked key in a black-box manner. Then by the pseudorandomness
of F and UF, the outputs of the marked key are also pseudorandom.

648
R. Yang et al.
2.3
Constructing Robust Unobfuscatable PRFs
It remains to show how to construct an unobfuscatable PRF with robust learn-
ability, which is a PRF family UF that allows one to learn the secret information
s embedded in a PRF key ks from any circuit that agrees with UFks(·) on a
large fraction of inputs. We ﬁrst review existing constructions of unobfuscatable
functions and explain why they do not lead to a robust unobfuscatable PRF.
The ﬁrst constructions of unobfuscatable (pseudorandom) functions are pre-
sented by Barak et al. in [BGI+01]. Their unobfuscatable PRF also supports
learnability from a circuit that approximates the PRF, but it does not allow the
circuit to modify the PRF evaluation on particular inputs with a high proba-
bility. In contrast, we require that the secret information can be learned from a
circuit that may modify the PRF evaluation on any input with probability 1 as
long as the fraction of modiﬁed inputs is small. Then, in [BP13], Bitansky and
Paneth construct an unobfuscatable function with robust learnability. However,
the extraction algorithm of the scheme needs a veriﬁcation key and it should
be included in all outputs of the function. Therefore, the scheme cannot be
pseudorandom. Recently, Zhandry [Zha21] constructs a robust unobfuscatable
function for decryption functionality from an unobfuscatable function without
robust learnability and a public-key traitor tracing scheme. It seems that the
idea also works for the PRF setting, but this needs a public-key watermarkable
PRF, which does not have a candidate construction yet4.
Next, we describe our constructions of unobfuscatable PRFs with robust learn-
ability. The constructions are inspired by techniques provided in [BGI+01,BP13].
In particular, both our construction and the construction of robust unobfuscat-
able function given in [BP13] can be viewed as random-self-reducible versions of
the non-robust unobfuscatable functions constructed in [BGI+01]. However, as
discussed above, the main techniques in [BP13] contradict the requirement of pseu-
dorandomness, and we introduce some new ideas to overcome the diﬃculties.
Construction from Fully Homomorphic Encryption. The construction
needs two PRFs F and F′. Besides, it relies on a special fully homomorphic
encryption (FHE) scheme with the following properties5:
1. One can homomorphically evaluate a circuit over a ciphertext and rerandom-
ize a ciphertext, without using the public key of the FHE scheme.
2. The ciphertext of the FHE scheme should be pseudorandom.
3. Even given the secret key of the FHE scheme, no one could distinguish a
rerandomized ciphertext that encrypts a random plaintext from a random
string in the ciphertext space.
The PRF key of the constructed robust unobfuscatable PRF UF is K
=
(α, β, k, k′, pk, sk, s), where α, β are random strings, k and k′ are PRF keys of F
and F′ respectively, (pk, sk) is a key pair of the FHE scheme, and s is the secret
4 Recall that the main goal of this work is to construct the ﬁrst public-key watermark-
able PRF.
5 We show how to construct the desired FHE scheme later in this section.

Public-Key Watermarking Schemes for Pseudorandom Functions
649
information. Then, given an input X = (ind, x, ct), the PRF is deﬁned as follows:
UFK(X) =
⎧
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎨
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎩
Enc(pk, α; F′
k′(X))
If ind = 0;
Fk(x∥ct)
If ind = 1;
Fk(x ⊕α∥ct) ⊕β
If ind = 2;
Fk(x ⊕Dec(sk, ct) ⊕β∥ct) ⊕s
If ind = 3.
where Enc and Dec are the encryption algorithm and the decryption algorithm
of the underlying FHE scheme respectively.
Robust Learnability of the Construction. We ﬁrst explain why the above con-
struction has robust learnability. For simplicity, we assume that the extractor is
given a circuit C that agrees with UFK(·) on all but negligible fraction of inputs.
The extractor ﬁrst gets an encryption of α via computing ct∗
α = C(0∥x1∥ct1),
where x1 and ct1 are random strings. As C and UFK(·) agree on all but negligible
fraction of inputs, we have ct∗
α = UFK(0∥x1∥ct1) = Enc(pk, α; F′
k′(0∥x1∥ct1))
with all but negligible probability, i.e., ct∗
α should be an encryption of α.
Then, the extractor obtains an encryption of β as follows. It ﬁrst computes
y2 = C(1∥x2∥ct2), where x2 and ct2 are random strings. Similar, we have y2 =
Fk(x2∥ct2) with all but negligible probability. Next, it runs a circuit P(·) on ct∗
α
to obtain ct∗
β, where for any string a, P(a) = C(2∥x2 ⊕a∥ct2) ⊕y2. Again, with
all but negligible probability, we have C(2∥x2 ⊕α∥ct2) = UFK(2∥x2 ⊕α∥ct2) =
Fk(x2∥ct2) ⊕β, which implies P(α) = β, i.e., ct∗
β is an encryption of β.
Now, with ct∗
α and ct∗
β, the extractor is ready to learn the secret information.
It ﬁrst samples a random γ and computes ct∗
3 as a rerandomized encryption of β ⊕
γ. Then it computes y3 = C(3∥x3∥ct∗
3), where x3 is a random string. Note that ct∗
3
is also random due to Property 3 of the special FHE scheme and the fact that γ is
a random string. Thus we have y3 = UFK(3∥x3∥ct∗
3) = Fk(x3 ⊕γ∥ct∗
3) ⊕s with
all but negligible probability. Next, the extractor computes y′
3 = C(1∥x3 ⊕γ∥ct∗
3)
and recovers ¯s = y3 ⊕y′
3. As x3 is a random string, γ is still hidden given
x3 ⊕γ, thus x3 ⊕γ∥ct∗
3 is indistinguishable from a random string and with all
but negligible probability, we have y′
3 = UFK(1∥x3 ⊕γ∥ct∗
3) = Fk(x3 ⊕γ∥ct∗
3),
which implies that ¯s = s. Therefore, the extractor can succeed in recovering s
from the circuit C with all but negligible probability.
Remark 2.2. The above construction also supports learnability from a circuit
that deviates from UFK(·) on a constant fraction of inputs. To achieve this,
the extractor needs to produce multiple test points in each step and choose the
majorities. In more detail, let N be a suitable polynomial. The extractor ﬁrst
produces N ciphertexts ct∗
α via running the circuit C on N independent inputs
(x1, ct1). Then for each ct∗
α, it produces N ciphertexts ct∗
β and for each pair
(ct∗
α, ct∗
β), it computes N results ¯s. The extractor sets the extraction outputs as
the majority-of-majorities-of-majorities. More precisely, for each pair (ct∗
α, ct∗
β),
it chooses the extracted result for this pair as the majority of all N results
¯s produced for this pair. It also chooses the extracted result for each ct∗
α as
the majority of all N results for the N pairs (ct∗
α, ct∗
β). Finally, it outputs the
majority of all N results for the N ciphertexts ct∗
α.

650
R. Yang et al.
In above extraction procedure, inputs (excluding the index ind) to the circuit
C are all random since they are composed of either random strings or rerandom-
ized ciphertexts encrypting random plaintexts, which are random due to Prop-
erty 3 of the special FHE scheme. Thus, if the fraction of inputs that C diﬀers
with UFK(·) is a small constant δ, the majority result at each step should be the
correct secret information. In particular, the extraction result will be correct if
Pr[C(0∥x1∥ct1) = UFK(0∥x1∥ct1)] > 1/2
Pr[C(1∥x2∥ct2) = UFK(1∥x2∥ct2) ∧C(2∥x2 ⊕α∥ct2) = UFK(2∥x2 ⊕α∥ct2)] > 1/2
Pr[C(1∥x3 ⊕γ∥ct∗
3) = UFK(1∥x3 ⊕γ∥ct∗
3) ∧C(3∥x3∥ct∗
3) = UFK(3∥x3∥ct∗
3)] > 1/2
for random x1∥ct1, x2∥ct2, and x3∥ct∗
3, and all three inequalities can be satisﬁed if
δ < 1/8. Besides, the constant δ can be improved to be about 1
6 if we slightly modify
the above construction. Please see the full version for more details.
Pseudorandomness of the Construction. Next, we explain why UF is pseudoran-
dom. We assume w.l.o.g. that all queries submitted by the adversary are distinct.
First, suppose that there are no collisions in the inputs to Fk(·) when answering
queries from the adversary, then outputs of Fk(·) would be indistinguishable from
strings sampled uniformly and independently from its output space, i.e., outputs
of UFK(ind∥x∥ct) will be pseudorandom if ind ∈{1, 2, 3}. This also implies that
the adversary cannot learn any information about sk. Then by ciphertext pseu-
dorandomness of the FHE scheme, outputs of UFK(ind∥x∥ct) will also be pseu-
dorandom if ind = 0. To summarize, the adversary cannot distinguish UF from a
random function if there are no collisions in the inputs to Fk(·).
Next, we show why the collisions do not occur. In a nutshell, this is because to
make a collision, the adversary must have the knowledge of α, β, or encryption
of β, and none of them can be obtained via black-box accesses to UFK(·). In
more detail, assume that there are no collisions in the ﬁrst q queries to the
oracle, then responses of these q queries would be indistinguishable from random
strings, which contain no information. Thus, the adversary also cannot make a
collision in the (q +1)-th query. There is no collision if the adversary only makes
one oracle query, then by the above statement, the adversary cannot make any
collision when querying UFK(·). Therefore, the pseudorandomness follows.
Construction from One Way Function. Next, we show how to construct
robust unobfuscatable PRFs without using FHE. More precisely, the new con-
struction only relies on a standard secret-key encryption scheme with some spe-
ciﬁc properties, which can be instantiated from any one way function.
Following [BGI+01,BP13], we remove the dependency on homomorphic
encryption via performing the homomorphic operations by UFK(·). In partic-
ular, given an input X = (ind, x, ct), the new PRF proceeds identically as in the
construction from FHE if ind ∈{0, 1, 2, 3}. In addition, if ind = 4, it decrypts the
ciphertext ct, performs the speciﬁed homomorphic operation over the decrypted
bits and outputs an encryption of the evaluation result, where the randomness
is derived from F′k′(X).
The extractor can use this additional functionality of UF to evaluate P gate
by gate. Thus, it can still succeed in extracting the secret information from a

Public-Key Watermarking Schemes for Pseudorandom Functions
651
circuit C that approximates UFK(·) even if the underlying encryption scheme
does not support homomorphic evaluation over encrypted data.6
Constructing Special Fully Homomorphic Encryption. We ﬁnally show
how to construct the special FHE needed. Our starting point is the GSW homo-
morphic encryption scheme presented in [GSW13]. In a nutshell, the secret key
of the scheme is a random vector s ∈Zn
q . Its public key contains a matrix
A =

B
s⊺B + e⊺

mod q
and a ciphertext ct∗
sk, where B is a random matrix in Zn×m
q
, e is a “short”
vector in Zm and ct∗
sk is an encryption of the secret key s. The ciphertext that
encrypts a bit μ is deﬁned as7
C = μ · G + A · R
mod q
where R is a random binary matrix and G is the standard powers-of-two gadget
matrix [MP12]. Besides, to rerandomize a ciphertext C, the rerandomization
algorithm adds the ciphertext with an encryption of 0. Next, we describe how
to adapt the construction to achieve the three properties needed.
Achieving Property 1 and Property 2. In the evaluation algorithm of the GSW
scheme, the ciphertext ct∗
sk should be used to perform the bootstrapping proce-
dure. Also, the rerandomization algorithm needs the matrix A to generate an
encryption of 0. Both variables are contained in the public key and thus the ﬁrst
property, which requires that the evaluation algorithm and the rerandomization
algorithm can be performed without using the public key, is not satisﬁed.
We solve the problem by putting randomized versions of both variables into
the ciphertext of the scheme. In particular, the new ciphertext is (ctμ, ctsk, ct0),
where ctμ is an encryption of the message, ctsk is generated by reramdomizing
ct∗
sk and ct0 is a fresh encryption of 0. Then we can use ctsk and ct0 instead
of ct∗
sk and A when running the evaluation algorithm and the rerandomization
algorithm, and Property 1 follows. In addition, as the new ciphertext consists
of ciphertexts of the original scheme, the ciphertext pseudorandomness of the
modiﬁed scheme (i.e., Property 2) comes from that of the original scheme, which
can be guaranteed by the circular-secure learning with errors (LWE) assumption.
There is one subtle issue when employing this scheme in the construction of
unobfuscatable PRF. That is the extractor can obtain ct0 only from output of
the circuit, which may deviate the PRF evaluation on a 1/6 fraction of inputs,
and the obtained ct0 may not be pseudorandom (e.g., the circuit could rejects
to output ct0 if its ﬁrst 3 bits are 000). As a result, the output distribution
of the rerandomization algorithm may also be changed. We ﬁx the issue by
6 We notice that however, the trick presented in Remark 2.2 does not work in this
setting as it will require the extractor to produce N O(|C|) test points, which is expo-
nential in the size of the circuit C. Thus, the construction only supports learnability
from a circuit that deviates from UFK(·) on a negligible fraction of inputs.
7 Here, we change the format of the ciphertext of the original GSW scheme slightly.

652
R. Yang et al.
including multiple ct0 in each ciphertext and use a random subset sum of them
in the rerandomization algorithm. The selection of the subset provides additional
entropy and we can show that the result is pseudorandom by using the leftover
hash lemma and the fact that A is pseudorandom.
Achieving Property 3. The third property of the special FHE scheme requires
that a rerandomized ciphertext of a random plaintext should look uniform even
given the secret key of the FHE scheme. Here we relax this property and only
require that one can transform a rerandomized ciphertext of the FHE scheme
into a ciphertext with this strong uniformity. The transformed ciphertext is still
decryptable, but does not have to support homomorphic evaluation over it. Note
that this relaxed property is suﬃcient in our construction of unobfuscatable PRF.
Given a ciphertext CT = (C, ctsk, ct0), where C encrypts a bit μ, we ﬁrst
transform it as:
c =

0
μ · q+1
2

+ Ar
mod q
where r is a short vector in Zm
q . We can obtain c via summing some columns of
C. In addition, to decrypt the ciphertext, one can ﬁrst compute
(−s⊺, 1) · c = μ · q + 1
2
+ e⊺· r
mod q
(1)
where e is the short error term in A. Then the decryption result will be 1 if Eq.
(1) is close to q+1
2
and it will be 0 if Eq. (1) is close to 0.
However, the above transformed ciphertext can be distinguished from a ran-
dom vector given s due to the following decryption attack. Given a ciphertext c,
which is either a transformed ciphertext or a random vector, the distinguisher
with the secret key s ﬁrst computes Eq. (1). It will get a number that is close
to q+1
2
or 0 if c is a transformed ciphertext and it will get a random number in
Zq if c is a random vector. Thus, it could distinguish these two cases.
We prevent the attack via adding a number z
$←[0, q−1
2 ] to the last element
of the transformed ciphertext and require that q is much larger than the error
term e⊺·r. One will get μ· q+1
2 +e⊺·r+z via computing Eq. (1) on a transformed
ciphertext that encrypts μ, and this will be a random number in [μ· q+1
2 , μ· q+1
2 +
q−1
2 ] due to the smudging lemma [AJLA+12], which states that a small error
(i.e., e⊺·r) can be smudged out by a large error (i.e., z). The encrypted message
can still be recovered from c via computing Eq. (1) and checking if the result
exceeds q−1
2 . Besides, if c is a transformed ciphertext that encrypts a random
bit, then Eq. (1) would also be a random number in Zq and thus the distinguisher
cannot distinguish it from a random vector.
3
Notations
We write negl(·) to denote a negligible function and write poly(·) to denote a
polynomial. For integers a ≤b, we write [a, b] to denote all integers from a to
b. Let s be a string, we use |s| to denote the length of s. For integers a ≤|s|,

Public-Key Watermarking Schemes for Pseudorandom Functions
653
s[a] denotes the a-th character of s and for integers a ≤b ≤|s|, s[a : b] denotes
the substring (s[a], s[a + 1], . . . , s[b]). Let S be a ﬁnite set, we use |S| to denote
the size of S, and use s
$←S to denote sampling an element s uniformly from
set S. Let D be a distribution, we use d ←D to denote sampling d according
to D. Following the syntax in [BLW17], for a circuit family C indexed by a
few, say m, constants, we write C[c1, . . . , cm] to denote a circuit with constants
c1, . . . , cm. We use ⊼to denote the NAND gate and suppose that all circuits
are composed exclusively by NAND gates unless otherwise speciﬁed. We provide
more background knowledge and recall deﬁnitions of cryptographic primitives
employed in this work in the full version.
4
Deﬁnition of Public-Key Watermarkable PRFs
In this section, we provide the deﬁnition of public-key watermarkable PRFs,
which is adapted from deﬁnitions of watermarkable PRFs in previous works
[CHN+16,BLW17,KW17,QWZ18,KW19,YAL+19,YAYX20]. More precisely, a
public-key watermarkable PRF with key space K, input space X, output space
Y, and message space M consists of the following algorithms:
• Setup(1λ) →PP : On input the security parameter 1λ, the setup algorithm
outputs the public parameter PP.
• KeyGen(PP) →k : On input the public parameter PP, the key generation
algorithm outputs a PRF key k ∈K.
• Eval(PP, k, x) →y : On input the public parameter PP, a PRF key k ∈K,
and an input x ∈X, the evaluation algorithm outputs an output y ∈Y.
• Mark(PP, k, msg) →C : On input the public parameter PP, a PRF key
k ∈K, and a message msg ∈M, the marking algorithm outputs a marked
circuit C : X →Y.
• Extract(PP, C) →msg : On input the public parameter PP and a circuit
C, the extraction algorithm outputs a message msg ∈M ∪{⊥}, where ⊥
denotes that the circuit is unmarked.
Correctness. The correctness of a watermarking scheme includes three prop-
erties. The functionality preserving property requires that the watermarked key
can roughly preserve the functionality of the original key.
Deﬁnition 4.1 (Functionality Preserving). For any msg ∈M, let PP ←
Setup(1λ), k ←KeyGen(PP), C ←Mark(PP, k, msg), x
$←X, then we have
Pr[C(x) ̸= Eval(PP, k, x)] ≤negl(λ).
The extraction correctness requires that the extraction algorithm can extract
the correct message from an honestly-watermarked key and will obtain the
“unmarked” symbol when extracting an unmarked key.
Deﬁnition 4.2 (Extraction Correctness). For any msg ∈M, let PP ←
Setup(1λ), k ←KeyGen(PP), and C ←Mark(PP, k, msg), then we have
Pr[Extract(PP, C) ̸= msg] ≤negl(λ)
Pr[Extract(PP, Eval(PP, k, ·)) ̸=⊥] ≤negl(λ)

654
R. Yang et al.
The meaningfulness property requires that most circuits are unmarked, which
rules out the trivial construction that regards all circuits as marked.
Deﬁnition 4.3 (Watermarking Meaningfulness). For any circuit C : X →
Y, let PP ←Setup(1λ), then we have Pr[Extract(PP, C) ̸=⊥] ≤negl(λ).
Pseudorandomness. Our deﬁnition of pseudorandomness is twofold, including
pseudorandomness for unmarked keys and that for marked keys. The properties
require that given oracle access to an unmarked PRF key (or a marked key), the
adversary cannot distinguish it from a random function.
Deﬁnition 4.4 (Pseudorandomness for Unmarked Keys). Let PP ←
Setup(1λ), k ←KeyGen(PP), and f be a random function from X to Y. Also, let
O0(·) be an oracle that takes as input a string x ∈X and returns Eval(PP, k, x),
and let O1(·) be an oracle that takes as input a string x ∈X and returns f(x).
Then for all probabilistic polynomial-time (PPT) adversary A, we have:
| Pr[AO0(·)(PP) = 1] −Pr[AO1(·)(PP) = 1] |≤negl(λ)
Deﬁnition 4.5 (Pseudorandomness for Marked Keys). For any PPT adver-
sary A = (A1, A2), let PP
←Setup(1λ) and k ←KeyGen(PP). Also, let
(msg, state) ←A1(PP), C ←Mark(PP, k, msg), and f be a random function
from X to Y. Let O0(·) be an oracle that takes as input a string x ∈X and returns
C(x), and let O1(·) be an oracle that takes as input a string x ∈X and returns f(x).
Then we have:
| Pr[AO0(·)
2
(state) = 1] −Pr[AO1(·)
2
(state) = 1] |≤negl(λ)
Unremovability. This is the main security requirement for a watermarking
scheme, which requires that the adversary cannot remove or modify the messages
embedded in a random PRF key without signiﬁcantly changing its functionality.
Deﬁnition 4.6 (Q-Bounded ϵ-Unremovability). A watermarkable PRF is
Q-bounded ϵ-unremovable if for all PPT and ϵ-unremoving-admissible adver-
saries A, we have Pr[ExptURA,Q(λ) = 1] ≤negl(λ), where we deﬁne the experi-
ment ExptUR as follows:
1. The challenger samples PP ←Setup(1λ) and k∗←KeyGen(PP).
2. Then, it returns PP to A and answers A’s challenge oracle queries. Here, A
is only allowed to query the challenge oracle for at most Q times.
• Challenge Oracle. On input a message msg ∈M, the challenge oracle
returns a circuit C∗←Mark(PP, k∗, msg) to the adversary.
3. Finally,
A
submits
a
circuit
˜C
and
the
experiment
outputs
1
iﬀ
Extract(PP, ˜C) ̸∈Q∗. Here, we use Q∗to denote all messages submitted
to the challenge oracle and use R∗to denote all circuits returned by the chal-
lenge oracle.
We say that an adversary A is ϵ-unremoving-admissible if there exists circuit
C∗∈R∗that |{x ∈X : C∗(x) ̸= ˜C(x)}| ≤ϵ · |X|.
Remark 4.1. We can also deﬁne negl(λ)-unremovability for a watermarkable
PRF, which is identical to the deﬁnition of ϵ-unremovability for concrete ϵ,
except that A should be negl(λ)-unremoving-admissible, i.e., there exists cir-
cuit C∗∈R∗that |{x ∈X : C∗(x) ̸= ˜C(x)}| ≤negl(λ) · |X|.

Public-Key Watermarking Schemes for Pseudorandom Functions
655
5
Public-Key Hinting Watermarkable PRFs
We deﬁne and construct public-key hinting watermarkable PRFs in this section.
We provide its formal deﬁnition in Sect. 5.1. Then in Sect. 5.2, we construct it
from functional encryption schemes. We provide more constructions with diﬀer-
ent properties in the full version.
5.1
The Deﬁnition
The deﬁnition of public-key hinting watermarkable PRF is similar to the deﬁ-
nition of standard public-key watermarkable PRFs given in Sect. 4 except that
its key generation algorithm will generate a “hint” together with the PRF key,
which can be used later in the extraction algorithm. More precisely, a public-key
hinting watermarkable PRF with key space K, input space X, output space Y,
and message space M consists of the following algorithms:
• Setup(1λ) →PP : On input the security parameter 1λ, the setup algorithm
outputs the public parameter PP.
• KeyGen(PP) →(k, hint) : On input the public parameter PP, the key gen-
eration algorithm outputs a PRF key k ∈K and a hint hint.
• Eval(PP, k, x) →y : On input the public parameter PP, a PRF key k ∈K,
and an input x ∈X, the evaluation algorithm outputs an output y ∈Y.
• Mark(PP, k, msg) →C : On input the public parameter PP, a PRF key
k ∈K, and a message msg ∈M, the marking algorithm outputs a marked
circuit C : X →Y.
• Extract(PP, C, hint) →msg : On input the public parameter PP, a circuit C,
and a hint hint, the extraction algorithm outputs a message msg ∈M ∪{⊥},
where ⊥denotes that the circuit is unmarked.
Correctness. The correctness of a public-key hinting watermarkable PRF also
requires the following three properties. Here for the extraction correctness, we
require that the correct hint is used.
• Functionality Preserving. For any msg ∈M, let PP ←Setup(1λ),
(k, hint) ←KeyGen(PP), C ←Mark(PP, k, msg), x
$←X, then we have
Pr[C(x) ̸= Eval(PP, k, x)] ≤negl(λ).
• Extraction Correctness. For any msg ∈M, let PP
←Setup(1λ),
(k, hint) ←KeyGen(PP), and C ←Mark(PP, k, msg), then we have
Pr[Extract(PP, C, hint) ̸= msg] ≤negl(λ)
Pr[Extract(PP, Eval(PP, k, ·), hint) ̸=⊥] ≤negl(λ)
• Watermarking Meaningfulness. For any circuit C : X →Y and any hint,
let PP ←Setup(1λ), then we have Pr[Extract(PP, C, hint) ̸=⊥] ≤negl(λ).
Pseudorandomness. The pseudorandomness property requires that the eval-
uation of the PRF with an unmarked key should be pseudorandom. Here, the
adversary is not allowed to access the hint associated with the PRF key.

656
R. Yang et al.
Deﬁnition 5.1 (Pseudorandomness). Let PP ←Setup(1λ), (k, hint) ←
KeyGen(PP), and f be a random function from X to Y. Also, let O0(·) be an
oracle that takes as input a string x ∈X and returns Eval(PP, k, x), and let
O1(·) be an oracle that takes as input a string x ∈X and returns f(x). Then for
all PPT adversary A, we have:
| Pr[AO0(·)(PP) = 1] −Pr[AO1(·)(PP) = 1] |≤negl(λ)
Unremovability. The unremovability property also requires that an adversary
cannot remove or modify the message embedded in a watermarked PRF key
while keeping its functionality. Here, we allow the adversary to learn the hint
associated with the PRF key. Also, we require that the correct hint should be
used when extracting the circuit submitted by the adversary.
Deﬁnition 5.2 (Q-Bounded ϵ-Unremovability). A hinting watermarkable
PRF is Q-bounded ϵ-unremovable if for all PPT and ϵ-unremoving-admissible
adversaries A, we have Pr[ExptURA,Q(λ) = 1] ≤negl(λ), where we deﬁne the
experiment ExptUR as follows:
1. The challenger samples PP ←Setup(1λ) and (k∗, hint∗) ←KeyGen(PP).
2. Then, it returns (PP, hint∗) to A and answers A’s challenge oracle queries.
Here, A is only allowed to query the challenge oracle for at most Q times.
• Challenge Oracle. On input a message msg ∈M, the challenge oracle
returns a circuit C∗←Mark(PP, k∗, msg) to the adversary.
3. Finally,
A
submits
a
circuit
˜C
and
the
experiment
outputs
1
iﬀ
Extract(PP, ˜C, hint∗) ̸∈Q∗. Here, we use Q∗to denote all messages sub-
mitted to the challenge oracle and use R∗to denote all circuits returned by
the challenge oracle.
We say that an adversary A is ϵ-unremoving-admissible if there exists circuit
C∗∈R∗that |{x ∈X : C∗(x) ̸= ˜C(x)}| ≤ϵ · |X|.8
5.2
The Construction
Let λ be the security parameter. Let n, m, κ, Q be positive integers that are
polynomial in λ. Let ρ, θ be real values in (0, 1) s.t. 1/θ is polynomial in λ. Let
ϕ = θ/(5 + (κ −1)Q). Let T = λ/ϕ2. Let ϵ = ρ · (1 −θ).
Also, for any (msg, t∗) ∈[0, 2κ−1]×{0, 1}λ, we deﬁne the following functions
from [0, 2κ −1] × {0, 1}λ × {0, 1}λ to {0, 1}λ:
f⊥(ind∥t∥μ) = μ
fmsg,t∗(ind∥t∥μ) =

0λ
If t = t∗∧ind ≥msg
μ
Otherwise
Our construction is built on the following building blocks:
8 Similar to a standard watermarkable PRF, we can deﬁne negl(λ)-unremovability,
which requires that ∃C∗∈R∗s.t. |{x ∈X : C∗(x) ̸= ˜C(x)}| ≤negl(λ) · |X|.

Public-Key Watermarking Schemes for Pseudorandom Functions
657
• An FE scheme FE = (FE.Setup, FE.KeyGen, FE.Enc, FE.Dec) with message
space {0, 1}κ+2λ, ciphertext space {0, 1}n and density ρ.9 In addition, we
assume w.l.o.g. that FE.Dec is a deterministic algorithm.
• A PKE scheme PKE = (PKE.KeyGen, PKE.Enc, PKE.Dec) with message space
{0, 1}λ and ciphertext space {0, 1}m. Also, we use RPKE.Enc to denote the
randomness space for the algorithm PKE.Enc.
• A PRF F = (F.KeyGen, F.Eval) with input space {0, 1}n and output space
RPKE.Enc.
We
construct
the
public-key
hinting
watermarkable
PRF
HWF
=
(Setup, KeyGen, Eval, Mark, Extract), which has input space {0, 1}n, output
space {0, 1}m and message space {0, 1}κ\{0κ} = [1, 2κ −1] as follows:
• Setup. On input the security parameter 1λ, the setup algorithm samples
w
$←{0, 1}λ, t∗
$←{0, 1}λ, and outputs the public parameter PP = (w, t∗).
• KeyGen. On input the public parameter PP = (w, t∗), the key generation
algorithm computes
1. (mpk, msk) ←FE.Setup(1λ).
2. (pk, sk) ←PKE.KeyGen(1λ).
3. k ←F.KeyGen(1λ).
4. fsk ←FE.KeyGen(mpk, msk, f⊥).
and outputs the PRF key K = (mpk, msk, pk, k, fsk) and the hint hint =
(mpk, sk, w).
• Eval. On input the public parameter PP = (w, t∗), the PRF key K =
(mpk, msk, pk, k, fsk), and an input x ∈{0, 1}n, the evaluation algorithm
outputs M[mpk, fsk, pk, k](x), where M is deﬁned in Fig. 2.
• Mark. On input the public parameter PP = (w, t∗), the PRF key K =
(mpk, msk, pk, k, fsk), and a message msg ∈[1, 2κ −1], the marking algo-
rithm computes fskmsg ←FE.KeyGen(mpk, msk, fmsg,t∗) and outputs the cir-
cuit M[mpk, fskmsg, pk, k], where M is deﬁned in Fig. 2.
• Extract. On input the public parameter PP = (w, t∗), a circuit C, and a
hint hint = (mpk, sk, ¯w), the extraction algorithm output ⊥if ¯w ̸= w.
Otherwise, it runs the jump ﬁnding algorithm Trace (described in Fig. 3) to
extract messages from C, where the Test algorithm is also deﬁned in Fig. 3.
More precisely, it proceeds as follow:
1. Set the constant for the algorithm Test as (C, mpk, sk, t∗).
2. p0 = Test(0).
3. p2κ−1 = Test(2κ −1).
4. M ←Trace(0, 2κ−1, p0, p2κ−1). Here, the extraction algorithm will abort
and output ⊥if the Test algorithm has been invoked for more than
Q · (κ + 1) times in the Trace algorithm.
5. If M = ∅, output ⊥.
6. msg
$←M.
7. Output msg.
9 We use density to denote the fraction of honestly generated ciphertexts in the cipher-
text space. Its formal deﬁnition is given in the full version.

658
R. Yang et al.
M
Constant: mpk, fsk, pk, k
Input: x
1. μ = FE. Dec(mpk, fsk, x).
2. If μ =⊥, set μ = 0λ.
3. Output y = PKE. Enc(pk, μ; F. Eval(k, x)).
Fig. 2. The circuit M.
Trace
Input: ind1, ind2, p1, p2
1. Δ = |p1 −p2|.
2. If Δ ≤ϕ:
Return ∅.
3. If ind2 −ind1 = 1:
Return {ind2}.
4. ind3 = ⌊ind1+ind2
2
⌋.
5. p3 = Test(ind3).
6. Return Trace(ind1, ind3, p1, p3)∪
Trace(ind3, ind2, p3, p2).
Test
Constant: E, mpk, sk, t∗
Input: ind
1. Acc = 0
2. For i ∈[1, T]:
(a) Sample μ
$←{0, 1}λ.
(b) x ←FE. Enc(mpk, ind∥t∗∥μ).
(c) y = E(x).
(d) ¯μ = PKE. Dec(sk, y).
(e) If μ = ¯μ: Acc = Acc + 1.
3. Return Acc
T .
Fig. 3. The algorithms Trace and Test.
Theorem 5.1. If FE is a secure functional encryption scheme with Q-adaptive
indistinguishability and strong correctness10, PKE is a secure PKE scheme with
ciphertext pseudorandomness, and F is a secure PRF, then HWF is a secure
public-key hinting watermarkable PRF with Q-bounded ϵ-unremovability.
We present proof of Theorem 5.1 in the full version.
6
Robust Unobfuscatable PRFs
In this section, we deﬁne and construct robust unobfuscatable PRFs. We ﬁrst
give its formal deﬁnition in Sect. 6.1. Then in Sect. 6.2, we construct it from one
way function. We provide the construction from FHE in the full version.
6.1
The Deﬁnition
We give deﬁnition of robust unobfuscatable PRFs in this section, which follows
deﬁnitions in previous works [BGI+01,BP13,Zha21] with slight modiﬁcations.
More precisely, an unobfuscatable PRF with input space X, output space Y,
and message space M consists of the following algorithms:
10 The strong correctness requires that the decryption will always output ⊥given an
invalid ciphertext and will always output the correct result given a valid ciphertext.
Please see the full version for a formal deﬁnition.

Public-Key Watermarking Schemes for Pseudorandom Functions
659
• Setup(1λ) →PP : On input the security parameter 1λ, the setup algorithm
outputs the public parameter PP.
• KeyGen(PP, msg) →K : On input the public parameter PP and a message
msg ∈M, the key generation algorithm outputs a PRF key K.
• Eval(PP, K, x) →y : On input the public parameter PP, a PRF key K, and
an input x ∈X, the evaluation algorithm outputs an output y ∈Y.
• Extract(PP, C) →msg : On input the public parameter PP and a circuit
C, the extraction algorithm outputs a message msg ∈M ∪{⊥}, where ⊥
denotes that the extraction fails.
Correctness. Its correctness requires that the extraction algorithms can always
output the correct message given an honestly generated secret key.
Deﬁnition 6.1 (Correctness). For any msg ∈M, let PP ←Setup(1λ)
and K ←KeyGen(PP, msg), then we have Pr[Extract(PP, Eval(PP, K, ·)) ̸=
msg] = 0.
Pseudorandomness. Its black-box pseudorandomness requires that outputs of
the evaluation algorithm are indistinguishable from outputs of a random function
if the adversary is only given oracle access to the evaluation algorithm.
Deﬁnition 6.2 (Black-Box Pseudorandomness). For any PPT adversary
A = (A1, A2), let PP ←Setup(1λ). Also, let (msg, state) ←A1(PP), K ←
KeyGen(PP, msg), and f be a random function from X to Y. Let O0(·) be an
oracle that takes as input a string x ∈X and returns Eval(PP, K, x), and let
O1(·) be an oracle that takes as input a string x ∈X and returns f(x). We have
| Pr[AO0(·)
2
(state) = 1] −Pr[AO1(·)
2
(state) = 1] |≤negl(λ)
Learnability. Its robust non-black-box learnability requires that one can learn
the message from a circuit that approximately evaluates the PRF. In particular,
for any function ϵ ∈[0, 1], we deﬁne ϵ-robust learnability as follows.
Deﬁnition 6.3 (ϵ-Robust Learnability). For all PPT and ϵ-admissible
adversaries A = (A1, A2), we have
Pr
⎡
⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎣
PP ←Setup(1λ);
(msg, state) ←A1(PP);
K ←KeyGen(PP, msg);
C ←A2(K, state);
msg ←Extract(PP, C);
:
msg ̸= msg
⎤
⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎦
≤negl(λ)
Here, we say that an adversary A is ϵ-admissible if |{x ∈X : C(x) ̸= Eval(PP,
K, x)}| ≤ϵ · |X|.11
11 Similar to a (hinting) watermarkable PRF, we can deﬁne negl(λ)-robust learnability,
which requires that |{x ∈X : C(x) ̸= Eval(PP, K, x)}| ≤negl(λ) · |X|.

660
R. Yang et al.
6.2
The Construction
Let λ be the security parameter. Let n0 = 3, n1 = (λ + 2) · λ, n2 = 2(λ + 1),
n3 = λ + 1, n4 = λ, n5 = λ · (λ + 1). Let n = n0 + n1 + n2 + n3 + n4 + n5. Let
m be a positive integer that is polynomial in λ s.t. m ≥λ · (λ + 1).
Our construction is built on the following building blocks, all of which can
be constructed from one way functions:
• A PRF Fenc = (Fenc.KeyGen, Fenc.Eval) with input space {0, 1}λ and output
space {0, 1}.
• An invoker randomizable PRF FIR = (FIR.KeyGen, FIR.Eval) with input
space {0, 1}n−n1 × {0, 1}n1 and output space {0, 1}n1.
• A PRF Fmask = (Fmask.KeyGen, Fmask.Eval) with input space {0, 1}n−n0 and
output space {0, 1}m.
• A PRF Fpad = (Fpad.KeyGen, Fpad.Eval) with input space {0, 1}n and output
space {0, 1}m.
We construct the robust unobfuscatable PRF UOF = (Setup, KeyGen, Eval,
Extract), which has input space {0, 1}n, output space {0, 1}m, and message
space {0, 1}m as follows:
• Setup. There is no need to set the public parameter in this construction and
the setup algorithm outputs PP = 1λ on input the security parameter 1λ.
• KeyGen. On input the security parameter 1λ and the message msg, the
key generation algorithm samples α
$←{0, 1}λ and β
$←{0, 1}λ. Then
it generates PRF keys kenc ←Fenc.KeyGen(1λ), kIR ←FIR.KeyGen(1λ),
kmask ←Fmask.KeyGen(1λ), and kpad ←Fpad.KeyGen(1λ). Finally, it outputs
the PRF key
K = (α, β, kenc, kIR, kmask, kpad, msg)
• Eval. On input the secret key K
=
(α, β, kenc, kIR, kmask, kpad, msg)
and
an
input
x
∈
{0, 1}n,
the
evaluation
algorithm
ﬁrst
parses
x = (u0, u1, u2, u3, u4, u5) ∈{0, 1}n0 × {0, 1}n1 × {0, 1}n2 × {0, 1}n3 ×
{0, 1}n4 × {0, 1}n5. Then it sets w = (u0, u2, u3, u4, u5) and computes
(r1, r2, . . . , rλ+2) = FIR.Eval(kIR, w, u1), where ri ∈{0, 1}λ for i ∈[1, λ + 2].
Next, it deals with the following cases:
– If u0 = 0:
1. For i ∈[1, λ]:
(a) cti = ri∥Fenc.Eval(kenc, ri) ⊕α[i].
2. ypad = Fpad.Eval(kpad, x)[1 : m −λ · (λ + 1)].
3. Output ct1∥. . . ∥ctλ∥ypad.
– If u0 = 1:
1. Parse u2 = (¯r1, ¯c1, ¯r2, ¯c2) ∈{0, 1}λ × {0, 1} × {0, 1}λ × {0, 1}.
2. μ1 = Fenc.Eval(kenc, ¯r1) ⊕¯c1.
3. μ2 = Fenc.Eval(kenc, ¯r2) ⊕¯c2.
4. μ = μ1 ⊼μ2.

Public-Key Watermarking Schemes for Pseudorandom Functions
661
5. ct = rλ+1∥Fenc.Eval(kenc, rλ+1) ⊕μ.
6. ypad = Fpad.Eval(kpad, x)[1 : m −(λ + 1)].
7. Output ct∥ypad.
– If u0 = 2:
1. Parse u3 = (¯r, ¯c) ∈{0, 1}λ × {0, 1}.
2. μ = Fenc.Eval(kenc, ¯r) ⊕¯c.
3. ct = rλ+2∥Fenc.Eval(kenc, rλ+2) ⊕μ.
4. ypad = Fpad.Eval(kpad, x)[1 : m −(λ + 1)].
5. Output ct∥ypad.
– If u0 = 3:
1. z = (u1, u2, u3, u4, u5).
2. ymask = Fmask.Eval(kmask, z).
3. Output ymask.
– If u0 = 4:
1. u′
4 = u4 ⊕α.
2. z = (u1, u2, u3, u′
4, u5).
3. ymask = Fmask.Eval(kmask, z).
4. Output (β∥0m−λ) ⊕ymask.
– If u0 = 5:
1. Parse u5 = (¯ri, ¯ci)i∈[1,λ] ∈({0, 1}λ × {0, 1})λ.
2. For i ∈[1, λ]:
(a) μi = Fenc.Eval(kenc, ¯ri) ⊕¯ci.
3. ν = μ1∥. . . ∥μλ.
4. u′
4 = u4 ⊕ν ⊕β.
5. z = (u1, u2, u3, u′
4, u5).
6. ymask = Fmask.Eval(kmask, z).
7. Output msg ⊕ymask.
– If u0 = 6 or u0 = 7:
1. ypad = Fpad.Eval(kpad, x).
2. Output ypad.
• Extract. On input a circuit C, the extraction algorithm ﬁrst obtains
ct1, . . . , ctλ as follows:
x′
0
$←{0, 1}n−n0, x0 = 000∥x′
0, y0 = C(x0)
(ct1, . . . , ctλ) = y0[1 : λ · (λ + 1)]
Then it computes:
x′
1
$←{0, 1}n−n0, x1 = 011∥x′
1, y1 = C(x1)
and samples γ
$←{0, 1}λ. Let P = ¯P[x′
1, C, y1, γ], where ¯P is deﬁned in Fig. 4.
Let |P| be the number of wires for the circuit P and label each wire of P with
a number in [1, |P|], where each wire has a larger label than its children. We
can label the input wires as 1, . . . , λ. Also, we can label the output wires as
|P| −λ + 1, . . . , |P|, where the i-th output wire is labeled with |P| −λ + i.
Next, the extraction algorithm proceeds as follows for j ∈[λ + 1, |P|], where
jL and jR are the labels of the children of the wire labelled with j:

662
R. Yang et al.
1. u(j)
1
$←{0, 1}n1.
2. (u(j)
3 , u(j)
4 , u(j)
5 )
$←{0, 1}n3 × {0, 1}n4 × {0, 1}n5.
3. If jL ̸= jR:
(a) u(j)
2
= (ctjL, ctjR).
4. If jL = jR:
(a) (¯u(j)
1 , ¯u(j)
2 )
$←{0, 1}n1 × {0, 1}n2.
(b) (¯u(j)
4 , ¯u(j)
5 )
$←{0, 1}n4 × {0, 1}n5.
(c) ¯u(j)
3
= ctjL.
(d) ¯u(j)
0
= 010.
(e) ¯x2,j = ¯u(j)
0 ∥¯u(j)
1 ∥¯u(j)
2 ∥¯u(j)
3 ∥¯u(j)
4 ∥¯u(j)
5 .
(f) ¯y2,j = C(¯x2,j).
(g) ¯ctjL = ¯y2,j[1 : λ + 1].
(h) u(j)
2
= (ctjL, ¯ctjL).
5. u(j)
0
= 001.
6. x2,j = u(j)
0 ∥u(j)
1 ∥u(j)
2 ∥u(j)
3 ∥u(j)
4 ∥u(j)
5 .
7. y2,j = C(x2,j).
8. ctj = y2,j[1 : λ + 1].
After obtaining ct|P|−λ+1, . . . , ct|P|, the extraction algorithm ﬁnally extracts
the message as follows:
1. (u1, u2, u3, u4)
$←{0, 1}n1 × {0, 1}n2 × {0, 1}n3 × {0, 1}n4.
2. u5 = (ct|P|−λ+1, . . . , ct|P|).
3. u0 = 101.
4. x3 = u0∥u1∥u2∥u3∥u4∥u5.
5. y3 = C(x3).
6. ˜u0 = 011.
7. ˜u4 = u4 ⊕γ.
8. ˜x3 = ˜u0∥u1∥u2∥u3∥˜u4∥u5.
9. ˜y3 = C(˜x3).
10. msg = ˜y3 ⊕y3.
Finally, it outputs msg.
Theorem 6.1. If Fenc, Fmask, Fpad are secure PRFs and FIR is a secure invoker
randomizable PRF, then UOF is a secure robust unobfuscatable PRF family with
negl(λ)-robust learnability.
We present proof of Theorem 6.1 in the full version.
7
Construction of Public-Key Watermarkable PRFs
Now, we present the general construction of public-key watermarkable PRFs
from public-key hinting watermarkable PRFs and robust unobfuscatable PRFs.

Public-Key Watermarking Schemes for Pseudorandom Functions
663
¯P
Constant: x′
1, C, y1, γ
Input: a
1. Parse x′
1 = (u1, u2, u3, u4, u5) ∈{0, 1}n1 × {0, 1}n2 × {0, 1}n3 × {0, 1}n4 × {0, 1}n5.
2. ˜u0 = 100.
3. ˜u4 = u4 ⊕a.
4. ˜x1 = ˜u0∥u1∥u2∥u3∥˜u4∥u5.
5. ˜y1 = C(˜x1).
6. b = (˜y1 ⊕y1)[1 : λ].
7. Output b ⊕γ.
Fig. 4. The circuit ¯P.
Let λ be the security parameter. Let n, m, m1, m2, κ, l, l1, l2, Q be positive
integers that are polynomial in λ and satisfy m = m1 + m2 and l = l1 + l2. Let
ϵ1, ϵ2, ϵ be real values in (0, 1) s.t. ϵ = min(ϵ1, ϵ2).12
Our construction is built on the following building blocks:
• A
public-key
hinting
watermarkable
PRF
HWF
=
(HWF.Setup,
HWF.KeyGen, HWF.Eval, HWF.Mark, HWF.Extract)
with
input
space
{0, 1}n, output space {0, 1}m1, and message space {0, 1}κ. Also, we use l1
to denote the length of the hint of HWF (i.e., each hint can be represented
by a string in {0, 1}l1).
• A
robust
unobfuscatable
PRF
UOF
=
(UOF.Setup, UOF.KeyGen,
UOF.Eval, UOF.Extract) with input space {0, 1}n, output space {0, 1}m2,
and message space {0, 1}l.
• A PRF F = (F.KeyGen, F.Eval) with key space {0, 1}l2, input space {0, 1}n
and output space {0, 1}m1.
We construct the public-key watermarkable PRF WPRF = (Setup, KeyGen,
Eval, Mark, Extract), which has input space {0, 1}n, output space {0, 1}m and
message space {0, 1}κ as follows:
• Setup. On input the security parameter 1λ, the setup algorithm samples
pphw ←HWF.Setup(1λ) and ppuo ←UOF.Setup(1λ). Then it outputs the
public parameter PP = (pphw, ppuo).
• KeyGen. On input the public parameter PP = (pphw, ppuo), the key gen-
eration algorithm ﬁrst generates (khw, hint) ←HWF.KeyGen(pphw), kf ←
F.KeyGen(1λ), and kuo ←UOF.KeyGen(ppuo, hint∥kf). Then, it outputs the
PRF key K = (khw, kf, kuo).
• Eval. On input the public parameter PP = (pphw, ppuo), the PRF key K =
(khw, kf, kuo), and an input x ∈{0, 1}n, the evaluation algorithm proceeds as
follows:
1. yhw = HWF.Eval(pphw, khw, x).
2. yf = F.Eval(kf, x).
12 Here, ϵ1, ϵ2, ϵ can be the negligible function negl(λ) instead of a concrete value.

664
R. Yang et al.
3. yuo = UOF.Eval(ppuo, kuo, x).
4. Outputs y = (yhw ⊕yf, yuo).
• Mark. On input the public parameter PP = (pphw, ppuo), the PRF key K =
(khw, kf, kuo), and a message msg ∈{0, 1}κ, the marking algorithm computes
Chw ←HWF.Mark(pphw, khw, msg). Then it outputs a circuit C : {0, 1}n →
{0, 1}m s.t. for any x ∈{0, 1}n:
C(x) = (Chw(x) ⊕F.Eval(kf, x), UOF.Eval(ppuo, kuo, x))
• Extract. On input the public parameter PP = (pphw, ppuo), and a circuit C,
the extraction algorithm proceeds as follow:
1. Set Cuo as a circuit that for any x ∈{0, 1}n, Cuo(x) = C(x)[m1 + 1 : m].
2. (hint, kf) ←UOF.Extract(ppuo, Cuo).
3. If (hint, kf) =⊥: output ⊥.
4. Set Chw as a circuit that for any x ∈{0, 1}n, Chw(x) = C(x)[1 : m1] ⊕
F.Eval(kf, x).
5. Output msg ←HWF.Extract(pphw, Chw, hint).
Theorem 7.1. If HWF is a secure public-key hinting watermarkable PRF with
Q-bounded ϵ1-unremovability, UOF is a secure robust unobfuscatable PRF with
ϵ2-robust learnability, and F is a secure PRF, then WPRF is a secure public-key
watermarkable PRF with Q-bounded ϵ-unremovability.
We present proof of Theorem 7.1 in the full version.
Acknowledgement. We appreciate the anonymous reviewers for their valuable com-
ments. Part of this work is supported by the National Science Foundation China
(Project No. 61972332), the Innovation Technology Fund (Project No. ITS/224/20FP),
the Hong Kong Research Grant Council (Project No. 17201421), and HKU Seed Fund
(grant number: 201909185070). Willy Susilo is partially supported by the Australian
Research Council Discovery Projects DP200100144 and DP220100003.
References
[AJLA+12] Asharov, G., Jain, A., L´opez-Alt, A., Tromer, E., Vaikuntanathan, V.,
Wichs, D.: Multiparty computation with low communication, computa-
tion and interaction via threshold FHE. In: Pointcheval, D., Johansson,
T. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2012. LNCS, vol. 7237, pp. 483–501. Springer,
Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-29011-4 29
[ALL+21] Aaronson, S., Liu, J., Liu, Q., Zhandry, M., Zhang, R.: New approaches
for quantum copy-protection. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) CRYPTO
2021. LNCS, vol. 12825, pp. 526–555. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-030-84242-0 19
[AR17] Agrawal, S., Rosen, A.: Functional encryption for bounded collusions,
revisited. In: Kalai, Y., Reyzin, L. (eds.) TCC 2017. LNCS, vol. 10677,
pp. 173–205. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
70500-2 7

Public-Key Watermarking Schemes for Pseudorandom Functions
665
[AV19] Ananth, P., Vaikuntanathan, V.: Optimal bounded-collusion secure func-
tional encryption. In: Hofheinz, D., Rosen, A. (eds.) TCC 2019. LNCS,
vol. 11891, pp. 174–198. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-36030-6 8
[BCP14] Boyle, E., Chung, K.-M., Pass, R.: On extractability obfuscation. In: Lin-
dell, Y. (ed.) TCC 2014. LNCS, vol. 8349, pp. 52–73. Springer, Heidelberg
(2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-54242-8 3
[BGI+01] Barak, B., et al.: On the (im)possibility of obfuscating programs. In: Kil-
ian, J. (ed.) CRYPTO 2001. LNCS, vol. 2139, pp. 1–18. Springer, Heidel-
berg (2001). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44647-8 1
[BGI14] Boyle, E., Goldwasser, S., Ivan, I.: Functional signatures and pseudoran-
dom functions. In: Krawczyk, H. (ed.) PKC 2014. LNCS, vol. 8383, pp.
501–519. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-
54631-0 29
[BLW17] Boneh, D., Lewi, K., Wu, D.J.: Constraining pseudorandom functions
privately. In: Fehr, S. (ed.) PKC 2017. LNCS, vol. 10175, pp. 494–524.
Springer, Heidelberg (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-54388-
7 17
[BP13] Bitansky, N., Paneth, O.: On the impossibility of approximate obfuscation
and applications to resettable cryptography. In: STOC, pp. 241–250 (2013)
[BSW11] Boneh, D., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Functional encryption: deﬁnitions
and challenges. In: Ishai, Y. (ed.) TCC 2011. LNCS, vol. 6597, pp.
253–273. Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-
19571-6 16
[BW13] Boneh, D., Waters, B.: Constrained pseudorandom functions and their
applications. In: Sako, K., Sarkar, P. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2013. LNCS,
vol. 8270, pp. 280–300. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-642-42045-0 15
[CHN+16] Cohen, A., Holmgren, J., Nishimaki, R., Vaikuntanathan, V., Wichs, D.:
Watermarking cryptographic capabilities. In: STOC, pp. 1115–1127 (2016)
[GKM+19] Goyal, R., Kim, S., Manohar, N., Waters, B., Wu, D.J.: Watermarking
public-key cryptographic primitives. In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio, D.
(eds.) CRYPTO 2019. LNCS, vol. 11694, pp. 367–398. Springer, Cham
(2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-26954-8 12
[GKP+13] Goldwasser, S., Kalai, Y., Popa, R.A., Vaikuntanathan, V., Zeldovich, N.:
Reusable garbled circuits and succinct functional encryption. In: STOC,
pp. 555–564 (2013)
[GSW13] Gentry, C., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Homomorphic encryption from learning
with errors: conceptually-simpler, asymptotically-faster, attribute-based.
In: Canetti, R., Garay, J.A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2013. LNCS, vol. 8042, pp.
75–92. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-
40041-4 5
[GVW12] Gorbunov, S., Vaikuntanathan, V., Wee, H.: Functional encryption with
bounded collusions via multi-party computation. In: Safavi-Naini, R.,
Canetti, R. (eds.) CRYPTO 2012. LNCS, vol. 7417, pp. 162–179. Springer,
Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-32009-5 11
[HMW07] Hopper, N., Molnar, D., Wagner, D.: From weak to strong watermarking.
In: Vadhan, S.P. (ed.) TCC 2007. LNCS, vol. 4392, pp. 362–382. Springer,
Heidelberg (2007). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-70936-7 20
[JLS21] Jain, A., Lin, H., Sahai., A.: Indistinguishability obfuscation from well-
founded assumptions. In: STOC, pp. 60–73 (2021)

666
R. Yang et al.
[KNY21] Kitagawa, F., Nishimaki, R., Yamakawa, T.: Secure software leasing from
standard assumptions. In: Nissim, K., Waters, B. (eds.) TCC 2021. LNCS,
vol. 13042, pp. 31–61. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-90459-3 2
[KPTZ13] Kiayias, A., Papadopoulos, S., Triandopoulos, N., Zacharias, T.: Dele-
gatable pseudorandom functions and applications. In: CCS, pp. 669–684.
ACM (2013)
[KW17] Kim, S., Wu, D.J.: Watermarking cryptographic functionalities from stan-
dard lattice assumptions. In: Katz, J., Shacham, H. (eds.) CRYPTO 2017.
LNCS, vol. 10401, pp. 503–536. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-319-63688-7 17
[KW19] Kim, S., Wu, D.J.: Watermarking PRFs from lattices: stronger security
via extractable PRFs. In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio, D. (eds.) CRYPTO
2019. LNCS, vol. 11694, pp. 335–366. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-030-26954-8 11
[MP12] Micciancio, D., Peikert, C.: Trapdoors for lattices: simpler, tighter, faster,
smaller. In: Pointcheval, D., Johansson, T. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2012.
LNCS, vol. 7237, pp. 700–718. Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-642-29011-4 41
[Nis13] Nishimaki, R.: How to watermark cryptographic functions. In: Johans-
son, T., Nguyen, P.Q. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2013. LNCS, vol. 7881, pp.
111–125. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-
38348-9 7
[NSS99] Naccache, D., Shamir, A., Stern, J.P.: How to copyright a function? In:
Imai, H., Zheng, Y. (eds.) PKC 1999. LNCS, vol. 1560, pp. 188–196.
Springer, Heidelberg (1999). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-49162-7 14
[NWZ16] Nishimaki, R., Wichs, D., Zhandry, M.: Anonymous traitor tracing: how to
embed arbitrary information in a key. In: Fischlin, M., Coron, J.-S. (eds.)
EUROCRYPT 2016. LNCS, vol. 9666, pp. 388–419. Springer, Heidelberg
(2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-49896-5 14
[O’N10] O’Neill, A.: Deﬁnitional issues in functional encryption. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Report 2010/556 (2010). https://ia.cr/2010/556
[PS18] Peikert, C., Shiehian, S.: Privately constraining and programming PRFs,
the LWE way. In: Abdalla, M., Dahab, R. (eds.) PKC 2018. LNCS, vol.
10770, pp. 675–701. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-319-76581-5 23
[PS20] Peikert, C., Shiehian, S.: Constraining and watermarking PRFs from
milder assumptions. In: Kiayias, A., Kohlweiss, M., Wallden, P., Zikas, V.
(eds.) PKC 2020. LNCS, vol. 12110, pp. 431–461. Springer, Cham (2020).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-45374-9 15
[QWZ18] Quach, W., Wichs, D., Zirdelis, G.: Watermarking PRFs under stan-
dard assumptions: public marking and security with extraction queries.
In: Beimel, A., Dziembowski, S. (eds.) TCC 2018. LNCS, vol. 11240,
pp. 669–698. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
03810-6 24
[SW14] Sahai, A., Waters, B.: How to use indistinguishability obfuscation: deni-
able encryption, and more. In: STOC, pp. 475–484 (2014)
[YAL+19] Yang, R., Au, M.H., Lai, J., Xu, Q., Yu, Z.: Collusion resistant watermark-
ing schemes for cryptographic functionalities. In: Galbraith, S.D., Moriai,
S. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2019. LNCS, vol. 11921, pp. 371–398. Springer,
Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-34578-5 14

Public-Key Watermarking Schemes for Pseudorandom Functions
667
[YAYX20] Yang, R., Au, M.H., Yu, Z., Xu, Q.: Collusion resistant watermarkable
PRFs from standard assumptions. In: Micciancio, D., Ristenpart, T. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2020. LNCS, vol. 12170, pp. 590–620. Springer, Cham (2020).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-56784-2 20
[YF11] Yoshida, M., Fujiwara, T.: Toward digital watermarking for cryptographic
data. IEICE Trans. Fundam. Electron. Commun. Comput. Sci. 94(1), 270–
272 (2011)
[Zha21] Zhandry, M.: White box traitor tracing. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2021. LNCS, vol. 12828, pp. 303–333. Springer, Cham (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84259-8 11

