Round-Optimal Black-Box MPC
in the Plain Model
Yuval Ishai1(B), Dakshita Khurana2, Amit Sahai3,
and Akshayaram Srinivasan4
1 Technion, Haifa, Israel
yuvali@cs.technion.ac.il
2 UIUC, Champaign, USA
3 UCLA, Los Angeles, USA
4 Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Bengaluru, India
Abstract. We give the ﬁrst construction of a (fully) black-box round-
optimal secure multiparty computation protocol in the plain model. Our
protocol makes black-box use of a sub-exponentially secure two-message
statistical sender private oblivious transfer (SSP-OT), which in turn can
be based on (sub-exponential variants of) most of the standard crypto-
graphic assumptions known to imply public-key cryptography.
1
Introduction
The exact round complexity of secure computation has been a focus of research
in cryptography over the past two decades. This has been especially well-studied
in the synchronous setting in the plain model, with up to all-but-one static
malicious corruptions. It is known that general-purpose secure multiparty com-
putation (MPC) protocols in this setting admitting a black-box simulator require
at least 4 rounds of simultaneous exchange [GK96b,KO04,GMPP16].1 In this
work we focus on MPC with black-box simulation. On the positive side, there
has been a long sequence of works [GMPP16,BHP17,ACJ17,KS17,BGI+17,
BGJ+18,CCG+20] improving the round complexity, culminating in a round-
optimal construction that relies on the minimal assumption that a 4-round
malicious-secure OT protocol exists [CCG+20].
Black-Box Use of Cryptography. Notably, all MPC protocols discussed above
make non-black-box use of cryptography, which is typically associated with sig-
niﬁcant overheads in eﬃciency. It is interesting, from both a theoretical and a
practical perspective, to realize fully black-box protocols [RTV04] where not only
does the simulator make black-box use of an adversary, but also the construction
itself can be fully speciﬁed given just oracle access to the input-output relation
of the underlying cryptographic primitives, and without being given any explicit
1 By simultaneous message exchange we mean that in each round, every party can
send a message over a broadcast channel. However, we allow the adversarial parties
to be rushing, meaning that they can wait until they receive all the honest party
messages in each round before sending their own messages.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2023
H. Handschuh and A. Lysyanskaya (Eds.): CRYPTO 2023, LNCS 14081, pp. 393–426, 2023.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-38557-5_13

394
Y. Ishai et al.
representation of these primitives. In the following, we refer to this standard
notion of fully black-box protocols as simply black-box protocols. The focus of
this work is on the following natural question:
What is the round complexity of black-box MPC in the plain model?
It was only recently that the concrete round complexity of black-box MPC
in the plain model was studied. Ishai et al. [IKSS21] obtained a ﬁve-round MPC
protocol making only black-box use of a public-key encryption scheme with pseu-
dorandom public keys, along with any 2-message OT protocol satisfying semi-
malicious security. They also gave 4-round protocols for a restricted class of
functionalities that consist of parallel copies of “sender-receiver” two-party func-
tionalities. While signiﬁcantly improving over prior works, which required more
than 15 rounds, it did not generally match the known 4-round lower bound.
Indeed, round-optimal black-box protocols are not known even for the restricted
case of two-sided 2PC, where both parties receive the output at the end of
the protocol execution. Furthermore, [IKSS21] highlighted signiﬁcant barriers in
extending their techniques to obtain a round-optimal construction.
Our Results. In this work, we overcome these barriers to obtain a 4-round black-
box MPC, thereby obtaining the ﬁrst round-optimal fully-black-box MPC in
the plain model for general functions. Our construction makes black-box use
of any sub-exponential secure two-message OT, that satisﬁes a well-studied
“statistical sender privacy” (SSP-OT) property. This essentially requires that
the sender input remain statistically hidden from an unbounded malicious
receiver. Such an OT protocol can be instantiated based on (sub-exponential
variants) of standard cryptographic assumptions such as DDH/QR/N th Residu-
osity/LWE [NP01,AIR01,Kal05,HK12,BD18,DGI+19]. This covers most of the
standard cryptographic assumptions known to imply public-key cryptography,
with LPN being the most notable exception2
On the Role of Subexponentially Secure OT. We stress that even though we
rely on sub-exponentially secure OT, our ﬁnal simulator still runs in expected
polynomial time. This itself may seem counter-intuitive, and indeed we see it
as a highlight of our technique and work. Very roughly, the reason why subex-
ponentially secure OT is helpful to us for achieving polynomial-time simulation
is that we design a protocol that admits two separate means for extracting the
adversary’s input. One is an “optimistic” extraction that runs in expected polyno-
mial time, and the other is a super-polynomial extraction that achieves stronger
properties. We use the super-polynomial extraction to essentially “bootstrap”
and allow the optimistic extraction to succeed for the purposes of simulation.
(See Technical Overview below for more details.) We believe this technique is of
independent interest and may inspire progress in other settings where standard
polynomial simulation is desired, but there is a need to reduce round complexity
2 Recently, SSP-OT was constructed from low-noise LPN and a standard derandom-
ization assumption [BF22] (building on [DGH+20]). However, this construction is
only secure against quasi-polynomial sized adversaries.

Round-Optimal Black-Box MPC in the Plain Model
395
beyond a barrier that arises from the need for some component of the protocol
to achieve simulation security.
Finally, we note that the 4-round lower bound [GK96b,KO04,GMPP16]
holds even when considering protocols that rely on sub-exponential hardness
assumptions as long as the simulator runs in (expected) polynomial time.
1.1
Related Work
The black-box round-complexity of general purpose secure computation as well
as for speciﬁc tasks such as oblivious transfer, zero-knowledge, non-malleable
commitments etc., has a long and rich history.
General Purpose MPC. Haitner et al. [HIK+11] gave the ﬁrst construction of a
malicious-secure black-box MPC protocol in the plain model based on any semi-
honest secure oblivious transfer. However, the round complexity of this construc-
tion grew linearly in the number of parties (denoted by n) even if one starts with
a constant round semi-honest OT protocol. A later work of Wee [Wee10] gave a
O(log∗n) black-box protocol by relying on stronger cryptographic assumptions
such as dense cryptosystems, or homomorphic encryption, or lossy encryption.
This was later improved by Goyal [Goy11] to give a constant round protocol
under similar assumptions. Unfortunately, this constant was more than 15 which
is a far cry from the lower bound of 4. A recent work of Ishai et al. [IKSS21] gave
a black-box ﬁve-round protocol based on any PKE with pseudorandom public
keys and any two-message OT protocol with semi-malicious security.
Special Secure Computation Tasks. For the case of oblivious transfer, Ostrovsky
et al. [ORS15] gave a round-optimal (i.e., a four-round) construction that made
black-box use of enhanced trapdoor permutations. Friolo et al. [FMV19] gave a
round-optimal black-box construction of OT based on any public key encryption
with pseudorandom public keys. Other black-box constructions of four-round OT
from lower level primitives were given in [CCG+21,MOSV22].
Ishai et al. [IKSS21] extended these results to the multiparty setting and
gave a round-optimal protocol for pairwise oblivious transfer functionality. In
the pairwise OT setting, each ordered pair of parties, namely, Pi and Pj execute
an OT instance with Pi acting as the sender and Pj acting as the receiver.
This can be extended to parallel instances of general two-party sender-receiver
functionalities.
Hazay and Venkitasubramanian [HV18] and Khurana et al. [KOS18] gave
round-optimal black-box constructions of zero-knowledge arguments based on
injective one-way functions. Hazay et al. [HPV20] showed that unless the poly-
nomial hierarchy collapses, all of NP cannot have a black-box zero-knowledge
argument based on one-way functions.
Goyal et al. [GLOV12] gave the ﬁrst constant-round black-box construction
of non-malleable commitments based on one-way functions. A latter work of
Goyal et al. [GPR16] gave a three-round (which is round-optimal) black-box
construction that is secure against a weaker class of synchronizing adversaries
assuming the existence of injective one-way functions.

396
Y. Ishai et al.
2
Technical Overview
In this section, we give an overview of the main techniques used in our construc-
tion of a round-optimal black-box secure multiparty computation protocol.
Starting Point. The starting point of our work is the recent result of Ishai
et al. [IKSS21] who gave a construction of a ﬁve-round MPC protocol that
makes black-box use of any public-key encryption scheme with pseudorandom
public keys and any two-message semi-malicious OT protocol.3 Their protocol
is obtained via a round-eﬃcient implementation of the IPS compiler [IPS08] in
the plain model.
We note a key component that was used in their instantiation: a four-round
black-box protocol that securely implements the watchlist functionality. Infor-
mally speaking, the watchlist functionality is an n-party functionality where each
ordered pair of parties (Pi, Pj) where i, j ∈[n] are involved in a k-out-of-m OT
instance with Pi acting as the sender and Pj acting as the receiver. Using this
four-round watchlist protocol, Ishai et al. [IKSS21] showed that with an addi-
tional round of interaction, it is possible to securely compute any multiparty
functionality. Furthermore, the resulting protocol only made black-box use of
cryptographic primitives.
Going Below Five Rounds. In the same work, Ishai et al. [IKSS21] also observed
that to get a four-round protocol (which is round-optimal) in the plain model
by making use of the IPS compiler, one needs a three-round watchlist protocol.
However, such a protocol cannot satisfy the standard simulation based security
deﬁnition w.r.t. a simulator that only makes black-box use of the adversary. This
is because such a simulation-secure watchlist protocol almost directly implies
a three-round protocol for oblivious transfer that satisﬁes standard simulation
security. We know that such a protocol is impossible to construct (even with
non-black-box use of cryptography) if the simulator uses the adversary in a
black-box manner [KO04]. Furthermore, to make matters more complicated, the
proof of security of the overall compiler given in [IKSS21] crucially relied on the
watchlist protocol to satisfy the standard simulation-style deﬁnition. Therefore,
to go below ﬁve rounds and obtain a round-optimal construction, we need to
come up with a new set of techniques.
Our Approach in a Nutshell. In this work, we show how to instantiate the IPS
compiler using a weaker notion of watchlists, that we call watchlists with promise
security. As one of our main contributions, we give a construction of a three-
round watchlist protocol that satisﬁes promise security. In Sect. 2.1, we motivate
the deﬁnition of this weaker watchlist protocol and show how it can be used
to instantiate the IPS compiler and in Sect. 2.2, we give the main ideas in con-
structing such a watchlist protocol.
3 Recall that semi-malicious adversaries are stronger than the standard semi-honest
adversaries and are allowed to ﬁx the random tape of adversarial parties to arbitrary
values. However, like in the semi-honest setting, they are forced to follow the protocol
speciﬁcation.

Round-Optimal Black-Box MPC in the Plain Model
397
2.1
Instantiating the IPS Compiler with Three-Round Watchlist
What Security can be achieved in Three Rounds?
The work of Ishai et
al. [IKSS21] gave a round-preserving compiler that transforms any two-party
computation protocol that satisﬁes certain additional properties (which we will
ignore for the moment) to a watchlist protocol. To understand what security
properties can be achieved by a three-round watchlist protocol, let us ﬁrst try to
understand what type of security can be achieved by a three-round 2PC protocol.
Recall that in the standard two-party protocol setting, there is a receiver
who holds an input x and there is a sender who holds an input y. At the end of
the protocol, the receiver obtains the output of f(x, y) for some pre-determined
functionality f. If we consider three-round protocols for the above task, then the
ﬁrst and the third round messages in the protocol are sent by the sender and
the second round message is sent by the receiver.4 As the sender is tasked with
sending both the ﬁrst and the third round message, a simulator could potentially
rewind the second and the third round messages in the protocol and extract the
eﬀective private input from an adversarial sender. In other words, a three-round
2PC protocol could satisfy standard simulation-based security deﬁnition against
malicious senders. However, the receiver in this protocol is only sending a single
message, namely, the second round message. In fact, it is impossible to design a
black-box PPT simulator that could extract the eﬀective private input from an
adversarial receiver.
The key observation is that if we allow the simulator against malicious
receivers to run in super-polynomial time, then such a simulator can extract the
eﬀective receiver input and provide security against malicious receivers. There-
fore, in the three-round setting, we can hope to construct a two-party protocol
that satisﬁes standard simulation based security against malicious senders and
super-polynomial time simulation security against malicious receivers. Indeed, as
we explain later, we give a construction of such a three-round protocol that makes
black-box use of a sub-exponentially hard two-message OT protocol with statis-
tical sender security. Such an OT protocol is known from the (sub-exponential
variant) of standard cryptographic hardness assumptions such as DDH/N th
residuosity/LWE/QR [AIR01,NP01,Kal05,HK12,BD18,DGI+19].
Instantiating the IPS Compiler with the Three-Round Watchlist. Given the two-
party protocol above, we could hope to obtain a three-round watchlist satisfying
“semi-SPS” security by following ideas in prior work [IKSS21]. If this were pos-
sible, could we directly get a four-round MPC protocol by instantiating the IPS
compiler with this “semi-SPS” three-round watchlist protocol? Unfortunately,
this is not quite possible, as we now explain. To understand this better, we give
a brief overview of the IPS compiler which is simpliﬁed and tailored to con-
structing a four-round protocol. The IPS compiler makes use of the following
components:
4 We note that any protocol, even one in the bidirectional communication model, can
be reduced to this setting.

398
Y. Ishai et al.
– A two-round client-server MPC protocol that is secure against a malicious
adversary that corrupts an arbitrary number of clients and a constant fraction
of the servers. This is called as the outer protocol. Such an outer protocol
was constructed by Ishai et al. [IKP10,Pas12] by making black-box use of
any PRG.
– A four-round inner protocol that satisﬁes the following robustness property.
Speciﬁcally, even if the adversary behaves maliciously and deviates arbitrar-
ily from the protocol speciﬁcation in the ﬁrst three rounds, it cannot learn
any information about the inputs of the honest parties. Furthermore, if the
adversary is able to produce an input, random tape that correctly explains
that the messages sent by it in the ﬁrst three rounds, then the last round
message from the honest parties only reveals the output of the functionality.5
– A three-round watchlist protocol that satisﬁes the standard extraction of
the adversarial sender inputs and super-polynomial time extraction of the
adversarial receiver inputs.
In the compiled protocol, each party plays the role of a client in the outer
protocol and computation done by the servers are emulated by the inner protocol.
To ensure that the adversary only cheats in at most a small number of these inner
protocol executions, we make use of the watchlist protocol. Speciﬁcally, each
party acting as the receiver in the watchlist protocol chooses a random subset
of k executions as part of its secret watchlist. Every other party acting as the
sender uses the input, randomness used in each of the inner protocol executions
as the sender inputs. This watchlist protocol is run in parallel with the ﬁrst three
rounds of the inner protocol. At the end of the third round, each party checks if
the input, randomness pair provided by every other party corresponding to its
watched executions are consistent. If it detects any inconsistency, then it aborts.
Using standard probabilistic arguments, it is possible to show that if the honest
parties have not aborted at the end of their watchlist check, then the adversary
only deviates in a tiny constant fraction of the inner protocol executions. These
deviations can be directly mapped to the corresponding server corruptions in
the outer protocol. Since the outer protocol is secure against a constant fraction
of the server corruptions, security of the overall protocol follows.
While the above intuition seems sound, we encounter a major issue while
formalizing it. In particular, recall that we are aiming for standard polynomial
security for our 4-round protocol, but we are relying on super-polynomial time
extraction as an ingredient. Thus, we are only able to show that this protocol
satisﬁes security via a super-polynomial time simulator. The “super-polynomial”
part in this simulator is needed to extract the receiver inputs used by the adver-
sarial parties in the watchlist protocol. Recall that in the watchlist protocol, the
5 For technical reasons, we actually need the inner protocol to run in three rounds
instead of four rounds. However, to keep the exposition simple, we will ignore this
in the overview. In the main body, we give a black-box construction of such a three-
round inner protocol based on two-round semi-malicious OT protocol (which is
implied by two-round SSP OT). This construction builds on the protocols given
in [GS18,PS21].

Round-Optimal Black-Box MPC in the Plain Model
399
adversarial receiver inputs correspond to the set of watched executions of the
corrupted parties. We need to extract this information in order to invoke the
security of the outer protocol.6 Further, the simulator also needs to additionally
extract the adversarial sender inputs. As mentioned earlier, we cannot hope to
simultaneously achieve eﬃcient polynomial time extraction of both the sender
and the receiver inputs.
Our Solution: “Promise-Style” Extraction. In order to get around this issue,
we use a “promise-style” extraction technique that is inspired by the notion of
Promise Zero-Knowledge [BGJ+18]. Speciﬁcally, we seek to devise an alternative
polynomial-time extraction system that guarantees extraction of the adversarial
receiver inputs only against those adversaries that send a valid third round
message in the watchlist protocol (with non-negligible probability). For all other
adversaries, we do not provide any guarantees. Let us now explain how this
weaker extraction guarantee is suﬃcient to instantiate the IPS compiler.
The simulator of the compiled protocol starts generating the ﬁrst-round mes-
sages of the outer protocol using some default inputs for the honest parties. Note
that these ﬁrst round messages correspond to the inputs to the inner protocol
executions. The simulator uses these “dummy” inputs to the inner protocol and
starts interacting with the adversary for the ﬁrst three rounds. If the adversary
aborts during this interaction, or fails to send a valid third round message in
the watchlist protocol, then the simulator simply outputs the view of this adver-
sary. On the other hand, if the adversary sends a valid third round message
in the watchlist protocol, then the simulator uses the “promise-style” extractor
to extract the set of watched executions. This information is then used by the
simulator to simulate the messages in the main thread (using Goldreich-Kahan
simulation technique [GK96a]).
A subtle point to note here is that the third round message in the watchlist
protocol is sent by the adversary only after it receives the third round message
from the honest parties (as we are considering rushing adversaries). However,
the third round message of the watchlist protocol delivers the input, randomness
used by the honest parties corresponding to the adversarial watched executions.
Recall that the simulator described above uses “dummy” inputs in the inner pro-
tocol executions and tries to extract the adversarial watched executions. This
will succeed only if the distribution of the messages generated by the simulator
is computationally indistinguishable to the messages in the real protocol. Specif-
ically, to prove this indistinguishability, we need to make sure that the output
of the watchlist protocol when using the real inputs is indistinguishable to the
case when the simulator uses default inputs.
To argue this, we rely on the security of the outer protocol. Recall that the
inputs given to the inner protocol executions correspond to the messages sent
by the clients to the servers. By corrupting the servers corresponding to the
6 Speciﬁcally, the set of watched executions of the adversarial parties correspond to a
subset of the corrupted servers in the outer protocol. To invoke the security of the
outer protocol, we need to extract this information from the watchlist messages.

400
Y. Ishai et al.
adversarial watched executions, we are guaranteed that the ﬁrst round message
sent to these servers reveals no information about the inputs of the honest clients.
To give a bit more details, this is realized by ﬁrst relying on the SPS security
of the watchlist protocol against adversarial receivers to extract the adversarial
watched executions, and then switch the input to a default value by relying
the security of the outer protocol, and then switch back to an honest watchlist
execution using the default inputs.
Another point to note here is that we cannot guarantee perfect extraction
of the adversarial receiver inputs even if it sends a valid third round message
with non-negligible probability. Due to technical reasons, we can only guarantee
“almost” perfect extraction. By this, we mean that whenever the output received
by the adversarial receiver is not ⊥, the output of the promise extractor is
identical to the SPS extractor. In other cases, there are no guarantees about the
extracted value. We show that this weaker property is suﬃcient to instantiate
the IPS compiler. Roughly, this is because if the output of the watchlist protocol
is provided to the adversary is ⊥, the adversary learns no information about
the input, randomness for any inner protocol execution. Hence, if the promise
extractor “over-extracts” the adversarial watched executions, this does not create
any trouble with the simulation.
2.2
Constructing Three-Round Watchlists with Promise Extraction
A core ingredient of our black-box MPC protocol is a three-round “watchlist”
protocol with promise-style extraction guarantees. For every i ∈[n], j ∈[n]\{i},
this functionality enables Pi to choose a (private) subset K ⊆[m] of protocol
executions of size k, and obtain the input and randomness used by Pj in all
executions in the set K, while all other input and randomness values of Pj
remain hidden from Pi.
Our ﬁrst goal is to develop a three round protocol that realizes the watch-
list functionality in the plain model in the presence of malicious corruptions,
with super-polynomial simulation and (polynomial) promise-style extraction.
Following [IKSS21], we observe that it would suﬃce to implement “sender non-
malleable” OTs with super-polynomial simulation-based “real/ideal” security and
with promise-style polynomial extraction; where in the (i, j)-th execution for
i ∈[n], j ∈[n] \ {i}, Pi is the receiver and Pj is the sender. Pj’s input to the
OT will be the input and randomness it used in each of the m instances of the
inner protocol, and Pi’s input is a random subset K of [m] of size k. By sender
non-malleability, we mean that the adversarial parties cannot maul the sender
messages in an OT execution with an honest party to obtain a “related” sender
inputs in an OT execution with an honest receiver.
The work of [IKSS21] showed how to implement such sender non-malleable
OT in four rounds from any four-round simulation-secure two-party computation
protocol with certain additional properties (which we ignore for the momemt).
Since we need three-round watchlists, we would need to begin with three-round
two-party computation, which is impossible to realize with black-box polynomial-
time simulation security. Nevertheless, we show that it is possible to realize

Round-Optimal Black-Box MPC in the Plain Model
401
such two-party computation with super-polynomial simulation and promise-style
extraction, which is one of our key technical contributions. We describe this in the
next subsection; here we discuss how such a two-party protocol can be compiled
into 3-round non-malleable OT.
Our overall approach builds on [IKSS21], but also diverges in some key techni-
cal aspects. Like [IKSS21], our construction relies on a secure two-party protocol
between a sender and a receiver realizing a special functionality F (described
in Fig. 1). Unlike [IKSS21], we must develop a three-round compiler instead of a
four round one.
In the [IKSS21] compiler, the sender S on input (m0, m1) ﬁrst encodes these
messages using an appropriate 2-split-state non-malleable code (enc, dec).7 For
technical reasons pertaining to the use of watchlists in our ﬁnal protocol, we
require our watchlists to satisfy 1-rewinding security, i.e., no adversary should be
able to distinguish the joint distribution of a main and a rewinding thread (with
common preﬁx) from the real distribution, from those sampled according to the
simulated distribution. This was not needed by [IKSS21], but this requirement
in our setting necessitates deviating from the [IKSS21] template, relying on (a
special type of) 3-split-state non-malleable code – speciﬁcally one that is also a
3-out-of-3 secret sharing scheme – instead of 2-split-state non-malleable codes.
Speciﬁcally, our sender encodes m0 into L0, M0, R0 and encodes m1 into
L1, M1, R1. The receiver obtains input a choice bit b ∈{0, 1}, and additionally
samples a uniformly random c ∈{0, 1, 2}. S and R invoke a two-party secure
protocol Π to compute functionality F, described in Fig. 1.
Sender Inputs: m0, L0, M0, R0, m1, L1, M1, R1, Receiver Inputs: b, c
The functionality F is deﬁned as follows.
1. Check if L0, M0, R0 is a valid encoding of m0 and if not, output ⊥.
2. Check if L1, M1, R1 is a valid encoding of m1 and if not, output ⊥.
3. If c = 0, output (mb, L0, L1).
4. If c = 1, output (mb, M0, M1).
5. If c = 2, output (mb, R0, R1).
Fig. 1. The functionality F
We note that the ideal functionality F only reveals mb to the receiver, and sta-
tistically hides m1−b. This is because the receiver obtains only one of L1−b, M1−b
and R1−b, and secrecy follows from the security of the secret sharing scheme.
Thus, given one of the states the message m1−b is information-theoretically hid-
den. Further, even given two executions of the ideal functionality on the same
7 Recall that a split-state non-malleable code (enc, dec) encodes any message m into
multiple states, such that the distribution of the tampered message obtained by
tampering the each state individually is independent of m.

402
Y. Ishai et al.
sender inputs, same receiver input b, and diﬀerent receiver challenges c, the
receiver only obtains mb and two out of L1−b, M1−b and R1−b. Given two out
of these three shares, m1−b is again statistically hidden. Indeed, when F is real-
ized via a secure protocol Π, m1−b continues to be computationally hidden even
given a main and rewinding thread (with same inputs m0, m1, b). This protocol Π
makes only black-box use of cryptography, and can be based on black-box access
to our three-round two-party computation protocol that additionally satisﬁes
certain amount of rewinding security, which we discuss in the next subsection.
Proving Sender Non-malleability. We must prove that running this protocol Π
between every pair of parties in parallel securely realizes the watchlist function-
ality. We model the adversary as a man-in-the-middle, which acts as a receiver in
“left” sessions and as sender in “right” sessions. We require that there is a simulator-
extractor Sim-Ext that given the inputs of all honest receivers (in all right ses-
sions), is able to extract all the implicit inputs used by the man-in-the-middle in
all its right sessions. Crucially, Sim-Ext does not have access to the inputs of honest
senders. Since the underlying protocol Π may be susceptible to arbitrary mauling
attacks, achieving this property is non-trivial, as we discuss next.
Similar to [IKSS21], we use the speciﬁc way that sender inputs are encoded
to introduce an alternate extraction mechanism. Speciﬁcally, one could imagine
rewinding the second and the third round message of Π twice, with ﬁrst round
message ﬁxed, and using inputs c = 0, c = 1 and c = 2 on behalf of the
honest receiver in the real and rewinding threads, respectively. Our two-party
computation protocol will be developed in such a way that ﬁxing the ﬁrst round
message will ﬁx all other inputs m0, m1, b in all left and right sessions. Let us
make the simplifying assumption that our adversary does not abort. Therefore,
we expect to obtain outputs (L0, L1), ( M0, M1) and (R0, R1) in the right session
in the real and rewinding threads respectively. At this point, we can use the
decoder of the non-malleable code to obtain (m0, m1), which, by correctness of
the two-party protocol, should correspond to the implicit inputs of the MIM in
the right session.
The Need for 2-Rewinding Security. Before we can rely on non-malleable codes
to formally argue security, we need to replace the two-party protocol Π with
its simulated version. At the same time, we need to argue that the joint dis-
tribution of values extracted from the strategy above (via extracting (L0, L1),
( M0, M1) and (R0, R1)) from the simulated two-party protocol, matches the
distribution in the real protocol. This requires the two-party protocol Π to
satisfy a stronger security property, that we call 2-rewind sender security.
This roughly means that any adversarial receiver/MIM that rewinds the hon-
est sender one time in the third and fourth rounds, with its input c set to a
possibly diﬀerent value, does not learn more than the output of F on (ﬁxed)
inputs (m0, m1, L0, L1, M0, M1, R0, R1,b, c = 0), (m0, m1, L0, L1, R0, R1,b, c = 1)
and (m0, m1, L0, L1, R0, R1,b, c = 2). This can be formalized by demonstrating
the existence of a simulator that simulates the receiver’s view in the real and
rewinding threads, given only (mb, L0, L1) in the main thread, and (mb, M0, M1),

Round-Optimal Black-Box MPC in the Plain Model
403
(mb, R0, R1) respectively in each of the rewinding threads (w.l.o.g.). Now, it may
seem like the sum total of this information could essentially allow the receiver
to recover m1−b. Yet, we show that if Π satisﬁes this property, it becomes pos-
sible to replace m1−b with an arbitrary value (say 0λ). Here we make use of the
fact that the diﬀerent states of the non-malleable code are available to the MIM
in separate (i.e. real and rewinding) executions, which allows us to rely on the
security guarantees provided by non-malleable codes, by arguing that each of
these states are essentially tampered by independent functions.
Finally, we note that just as in [IKSS21], we require these codes to satisfy
many-many non-malleability. At a high level, these are codes that are secure
against multiple tamperings of a codeword [CGL16]. We note that a construc-
tion of 3-out-of-3 non-malleable secret sharing from [GSZ21] satisﬁes all the
required properties (if instantiated with the CGL non-malleable code). Also
following [IKSS21], to deal with adversaries who might abort, we will modify
the protocol and functionality F so that instead of encoding (m0, m1) a single
time, the sender generates λ (where λ is the security parameter) fresh encodings
{(Li
b, Mi
b, Ri
b)}i∈[λ],b∈{0,1} of m0 and m1. The receiver picks λ choice bits c1, . . . , cλ
instead of a single bit c. The functionality F checks if for every i ∈[n], b ∈{0, 1},
{(Li
b, Mi
b, Ri
b)}i∈[λ],b∈{0,1} encode mb. If the check fails, F outputs ⊥. If it passes,
then for every i ∈[n], it outputs (Li
0, Li
1) if ci = 0, (Mi
0, Mi
1) if ci = 1, and
otherwise, outputs (Ri
0, Ri
1). We also recall that our watchlists need to satisfy
super-polynomial simulation with “promise-style” extraction, but we note that
these properties in fact carry over from the underlying special two-party com-
putation protocol.
2.3
Constructing Three-Round 2PC with Special Extraction
In this subsection, we explain the key ideas behind our construction of a
three-round 2PC that satisﬁes the “promise-style” extraction guarantee and “2-
rewinding” sender security.
3-Round OT Protocol. As a ﬁrst step, we construct a three-round black-box
OT protocol that satisﬁes standard simulation-based security against mali-
cious senders and super-polynomial time simulation security against malicious
receivers. For this purpose, we rely on a (sub-exponentially hard) two-round OT
protocol that has super-polynomial time simulation security against malicious
receivers. To enable polynomial time extraction of the malicious sender input,
we additionally require the sender to generate an extractable commitment to its
input. To ensure the consistency of inputs used in the extractable commitment
and the ones used in the OT protocol, we rely on the IPS compiler. Speciﬁ-
cally, we use the 1-out-of-2 SPS OT to construct a k-out-of-m SPS OT protocol
(using Yao’s garbled circuits) and use this as the watchlist protocol. We show
that this watchlist protocol is suﬃcient to instantiate the IPS compiler when we
only require SPS security against malicious receivers.

404
Y. Ishai et al.
3-Round 2PC. As a next step, we use the above OT protocol to construct a three-
round 2PC protocol that satisﬁes standard simulation security against malicious
senders and SPS security against malicious receivers. This step involves stan-
dard tools and closely follows the construction given in [IKSS21]. Additionally,
we also show how to add 2-rewinding sender security to this protocol. Speciﬁ-
cally, we show that if the underlying 3-round OT is 2-rewinding sender secure
and we also have a 2-rewinding secure extractable commitment scheme (which
was constructed in [BGJ+18]), we get a 2-rewinding sender secure 2PC protocol.
Further, we note that 2-rewinding sender security of our 3-round OT protocol
just boils down to instantiating the underling extractable commitment on the
sender side (as explained earlier) with a 2-rewinding secure one, and we instan-
tiate this with the construction given in [BGJ+18].
3-Round 2PC with Special Extraction. We then use the above 3-round 2PC
protocol to construct a protocol that additionally satisﬁes the “promise-style”
extraction guarantee. To achieve this, we require the receiver to commit to its
input (as well as the randomness) used in the 2PC protocol via a three-round
extractable commitment. Again, as in the case of OT protocol, we need to make
sure that the inputs committed via the extractable commitment is consistent
with the inputs used in the 2PC protocol. As before, we rely on the IPS compiler
but we observe that we do not need the “full-blown” watchlist protocol. Instead,
we require the sender in the second round to send a set of executions to be
opened in the clear and the receiver in the ﬁnal round opens the extractable
commitment corresponding to these executions. The sender then checks whether
the input, randomness committed via the extractable commitment is consistent
with the messages sent in the 2PC protocol. If they are consistent for randomly
opened set of executions, then by standard statistical argument, we can show
that they are consistent for a majority of the executions with overwhelming
probability. This allows us to rewind and extract the receiver’s input via the
extractable commitment. We note that we are only able to guarantee “almost”
perfect extraction due to the existence of a “small” set of inconsistent executions.
Speciﬁcally, the “small” set of inconsistent executions could force the output
of the watchlist protocol to be ⊥, but even in this case, our polynomial time
extract could extract some receiver input. But as explained earlier, this is not
problematic and is suﬃcient to instantiate the IPS compiler. We also note that
if the underlying 2PC protocol is 2-rewinding sender secure then this property
is inherited by the 2PC protocol with special extraction as well.
Organization. Due to lack of space, we only present the watchlist protocol and
defer the other constructions and their proof of security to the full version.
3
Preliminaries
We recall some standard cryptographic deﬁnitions in this section.

Round-Optimal Black-Box MPC in the Plain Model
405
Split-State Non-malleable Codes We will use non-malleable codes in the split-
state model that are one-many secure and satisfy a special augmented non-
malleability [AAG+16] property, as discussed below.
Deﬁnition 1 (One-many augmented split-state non-malleable codes).
Fix any polynomials ℓ(·), p(·). An ℓ(·)-augmented non-malleable code with error
ϵ(·) for messages m ∈{0, 1}p(λ) consists of algorithms NM.Code, NM.Decode
where
– NM.Code(m) →(L, M, R) where L ∈L, M ∈M and R ∈R (we will assume
that L = M = R) are a three-out-of-three secret sharing of the message,
– For every m ∈{0, 1}p(λ),
NM.Decode(NM.Code(m)) = m, and
– For every set of functions f = (f1, f2, . . . fℓ(λ)), g = (g1, g2, . . . gℓ(λ)), h =
(h1, h2, . . . hℓ(λ)) and every set of permutations {σi}i∈[ℓ(λ)], σ′ on (L, M, R)
there exists a random variable Df,g,h,σ,σ′ on R×{{0, 1}p(λ)∪same∗}ℓ(λ) which
is independent of the randomness in NM.Code such that for all messages
m ∈{0, 1}p(λ) it holds that the statistical distance between the distributions
σ′(L), σ′(M), {NM.Decode

fi(σi(L)), gi(σi(M)), hi(σi(R))

}i∈[ℓ(λ)]
and (replace(Df,g,h,σ,σ′, m)) where (L, M, R ←NM.Code(m))
is at most ϵ(λ), where the function replace : {0, 1}∗×{0, 1}∗→{0, 1} replaces
all occurrences of same∗in its ﬁrst input with its second input, and outputs
the result.
We note that the construction of non-malleable secret sharing in [GSZ21] can
be proven to satisfy this deﬁnition. This is already implicit in [GSZ21] for the case
of single tampering but extension of their proof to the case of multiple tamperings
follows directly if we use a strong two-source non-malleable extractors that is
multi-tamperable [CGL16]. Thus, we have the following:
Lemma 1.
[GSZ21] For every polynomial ℓ(·), there exists a polynomial q(·)
such that for every λ ∈N, there exists an explicit ℓ-augmented, split-state non-
malleable code satisfying Deﬁnition 1 with eﬃcient encoding and decoding algo-
rithms with code length q(λ), rate q(λ)−Ω(1) and error 2−q(λ)Ω(1).
Low-Depth Proofs. Any computation performed by a family of polynomial sized
ciruits can be transformed into a proof that is veriﬁable by a family of circuits in
NC1. We refer to the transformation as a low-depth proof, and we require such
a proof to satisfy the following deﬁnition.
Deﬁnition 2 (Low-Depth Non-interactive Proofs).
A low-depth non-
interactive proof with perfect completeness and soundness for a relation R con-
sists of an (eﬃcient) prover P and a veriﬁer V that satisfy:

406
Y. Ishai et al.
– Perfect completeness. A proof system is perfectly complete if an honest
provers can always convince an honest veriﬁer. For all x ∈L we have
Pr[V (π) = 1|π ←P(x)] = 1
– Perfect soundness. A proof system is perfectly sound if it is infeasible to
convince an honest veriﬁer when the statement is false. For all x ̸∈L and all
(even unbounded) adversaries A we have
Pr[V (x, π) = 1|π ←A(x)] = 0.
– Low Depth. The veriﬁer V can be implemented in NC1.
It is shown in [IKSS21] building on [GGH+13] how such a non-interactive proof
can be constructed in a simple way. Looking ahead, our construction of watchlists
makes use of a (malleable) two-party computation protocol for NC1 that must
verify validity of a non-malleable code. We rely on low-depth proofs to ensure
that the two-party computation protocol only performs NC1 computations.
3.1
3-Round Two-Party Computation Protocol with Special
Extraction
The watchlist protocol requires a special two-party computation protocol. We
give a construction of this protocol in the full version and present the deﬁnition
here.
Syntax. A three-round protocol Π = (Π1, Π2, Π3, outΠ) between a sender and
a receiver proceeds as follows. In each round r ∈[3], the sender runs Πr on its
identity, the transcript, its input and randomness to generate msgS
r . Similarly,
in round r, the receiver runs Πr on its identity, the transcript, its input and
randomness to generate msgR
r . The sender sends msgS
r to the receiver and the
receiver sends msgR
r to the sender and these messages are then added to the
transcript. At the end of the protocol, the receiver run outΠ on its identity,
transcript, its input and randomness to compute the output which is a string
z or ⊥. The sender runs outΠ on its identity and the ﬁrst round message from
the receiver, the second round message from the sender and third round message
from the receiver and outputs either accept/reject. We note that while the output
computation of the receiver requires access to its private random tape, the output
of the sender is publicly computable.
Deﬁnition 3. A three-round two-party protocol Π = (Π1, Π2, Π3, outΠ) for
computing a function f is said to satisfy k-special extraction if:
– Public Coin Second Round Messages. The second round messages from
the sender and the receiver are both public coin.

Round-Optimal Black-Box MPC in the Plain Model
407
– Security against Malicious Senders. There exists an expected PPT
machine SimS such that for every non-uniform A the corrupts the sender
and for every receiver’s input x ∈{0, 1}n, we have:

ViewA(⟨R(1λ, x), A(1λ)⟩), outR(⟨R(1λ, x), A(1λ)⟩)

≈c

(ViewA, f(x, y)) : (ViewA, y) ←(SimS)A(1λ)

In the above deﬁnition, we note that if y output by SimS is the special symbol
⊥, then the output of f is also ⊥. We additionally need the existence of a
straight-line SPS simulator SPSimS that has the same guarantees as SimS.
– Super-Polynomial Time Simulation Security against Malicious
Receivers. There exists a super-polynomial time machine SPSimR
=
(SPSim1
R, SPExtR, SPSim2
R, SPSim3
R) such that for every adversary A corrupt-
ing the receiver and for every sender’s input y ∈{0, 1}n, we have:

ViewA(⟨A(1λ), S(1λ, y)⟩)

≈c IdealR(1λ, y, A, SPSimR)
where the experiment IdealR is described in Fig. 2.
– 2-Rewinding Sender Security against Sub-Exponential Adversaries.
We require that this protocol to be secure against any malicious sub-
exponential time receiver that could rewind an honest sender twice by giving
possibly diﬀerent second round messages in each rewind.
– Special Extraction of the Malicious Receiver Input. There exists a
super-polynomial time extractor SPSpecExtR such that for any adversary A
corrupting the receiver and for any sender input y ∈{0, 1}n, the probability
the following experiment outputs 1 is negligible:
1. Sample a transcript T from IdealR(1λ, y, A, SPSimR).
2. If the output of the sender S in the transcript T is reject, then output of
the experiment is 0.
3. Run SPExtR(msg1
R) (where msg1
R ∈T) to obtain x. If x = ⊥, output of
the experiment is 0.
4. Else, run SPSpecExt(T) to obtain x′.
5. The output of the experiment is 1 if and only if x ̸= x′.
– Existence of k accepting Transcript Extractor. There exists a polyno-
mial time machine ExtR that on input any k transcripts T1, . . . , Tk such that
in each of the transcript the output of the sender is accept outputs x such that
x = SPSpecExt(T1) with overwhelming probability.
– Delayed Function Selection. The function to be computed can be chosen
by the sender in the third round.
4
The Watchlist Protocol
In this section, we formally construct and prove security of three-round watchlist
protocol. Recall that in the watchlist protocol, each ordered pair of parties Pi

408
Y. Ishai et al.
– Run SPSim1
R(1λ) to obtain (msgS
1 , st) and send msgS
1 to A. Receive msgR
1 from
A.
– Run SPExtR(msgR
1 ) to obtain x, st′.
– Sample (msgS
2 , st′′) from SPSim2
R(st, st′) and send msgS
2 to A.
– Receive msgR
2 from A.
– Run SPSim3
R(st′′, f(x, y), msgR
1 , msgR
2 , msgS
2 ) to obtain msgS
3 and send this to
A.
– Receive msgR
3 from A.
– Output view of A.
Fig. 2. Description of IdealR.
and Pj invoke a ℓ-out-of-m OT functionality where Pi acts as the receiver and
Pj acts as the sender. Speciﬁcally, the private input of party Pj in this OT
instance consists of of xj which is the vector of sender inputs of dimension m
and the private input of party Pi is Ki which is a subset of [m] of size ℓ. The
output to party Pi consists of {xj,k}k∈Ki. We note that in the watchlist protocol,
every honest party Pi uses the same Ki in each instance of the OT functionality
when acting as the receiver and same xi in each instance when acting as the
sender. However, the corrupted party Pi may choose diﬀerent Ki and xi for each
instance when acting as the receiver and the sender respectively. For ease of
notation, whenever we use Ki as the receiver input of a corrupted party Pi, we
actually mean a set of subsets {Ki,j}j∈H. Similarly, whenever we use xj as the
sender input of a corrupted party Pj, we actually mean set of vectors, one for
each honest party.
4.1
Deﬁnitions
Before we proceed to the formal deﬁnition of the watchlist protocol, we give an
informal overview of the various properties that the protocol needs to satisfy.
1. The ﬁrst requirement is the existence of a straight-line super-polynomial time
simulator SimWL that has oracle access to the watchlist functionality and
produces a view of the adversary that is computationally indistinguishable to
the real world. This requirement is same as standard SPS security. Here, it is
crucial that the simulator is straight-line i.e., it does not rewind the adversary.
2. The second property is about the existence of an “alternate” extraction mecha-
nism of the malicious receiver inputs. Speciﬁcally, we require that if the output
of all the honest parties when acting as the sender is not ⊥in the protocol,
then there exists an alternate super-polynomial time extractor SPExtWL,R
that extracts the adversarial receiver inputs using the accepting transcript.
Further, for each corrupted party, these inputs are the same as the ones
extracted by SimWL except in the case that it is ⊥.

Round-Optimal Black-Box MPC in the Plain Model
409
3. The third property is about the existence of polynomial-time rewinding
extractor (that rewinds the adversary until it obtains k accepting transcripts)
and outputs the malicious receiver inputs that is identical to the one output
by SPExtWL,R. For technical reasons, we need to separate out the existence of
a polynomial time rewinding extractor and super-polynomial time extractor
in the alternate extraction mechanism.
4. The fourth property is about the one-rewinding sender non-malleability.
Roughly speaking, it requires that adversarial sender inputs cannot depend
on the honest party sender inputs even if the adversary is allowed to rewind
the second and third round message of the protocol once.
Deﬁnition 4. (Extractable (n, m, ℓ)-Watchlists). Fix any polynomials n =
n(λ), m = m(λ), ℓ= ℓ(λ). An extractable (n, m, ℓ)-watchlist is a protocol that
achieves the simultaneous n-party m-choose-ℓOT functionality with the follow-
ing security guarantees:
1. Real-Ideal Security with Straight-line SPS simulator. There exists
a (stateful) straight-line super-polynomial time simulator SimWL such that
for any (stateful) adversary A that is corrupting an arbitrary subset M of
the parties and for any choice of honest party inputs {xj, Kj}j∈H (where H
denotes the set of honest parties, xj’s denote the sender inputs of party j,
and Kj’s denote the set of executions that player j watches), we have the
following two distributions are computationally indistinguishable:
(a) View of the adversary and the output of all the honest parties H in the
real execution of the protocol.
(b) IdealSP S(1λ, M, A, SimWL) where IdealSP S is given in Fig. 3.
Furthermore, the distribution of the messages generated by SimWL on behalf
of honest receivers is identically distributed to the real receiver messages with
dummy inputs.
2. Special Extraction of the Malicious Receiver Input. There exists a
super-polynomial time extractor SPExtWL,R such that for any adversary A
corrupting a subset M of the parties and for any choice of honest party inputs
{xj, Kj}j∈H, the probability that the following experiment outputs 1 is negli-
gible:
(a) Sample a transcript T from IdealSP S experiment and let {σj}j∈H be the
output of the honest parties.
(b) If σj = ⊥for each j ∈H in IdealSP S experiment, then output of the
experiment is 0.
(c) Else, run SimWL({msgi
1}i∈M) (where {msgi
1}i∈M
∈
T) to obtain
({Ki}i∈M, st).
(d) Run SPExtWL,R(T) to obtain {K′
i}i∈M.
(e) The output of the experiment is 1 if and only if there exists an i ∈H such
that K′
i ̸= Ki whenever Ki ̸= ⊥.
3. Existence of k accepting Transcript Extractor. There exists a polyno-
mial time machine ExtWL,R such that on input any k transcripts T1, . . . , Tk
with common ﬁrst message such that in each of the transcript the out-
put of the honest parties is not ⊥outputs {Kj}j∈H such that {Kj}j∈H =
SPExtWL,R(T1) with overwhelming probability.

410
Y. Ishai et al.
4. One-Rewinding Sender Non-Malleability. We require the existence of
an (expected) PPT algorithm ExtWL,S such that for any 1-rewinding adver-
sary A corrupting any set M of the parties (by 1-rewinding, we refer to an
adversary that is allowed to rewind the second and third round message of
the protocol once) and for any choice of honest party inputs {xj, Kj}j∈H
such that the following two distributions are computationally indistinguish-
able against adversaries that run in time which is polynomial in the running
time of SPSimWL,R:
(a) Consider the IdealSP S experiment in Fig. 3 with the 1-rewinding adversary
A (i.e., step-4 in the experiment is repeated once more). Let us denote the
ﬁrst execution with the adversary as the main thread and the rewinding
execution with A as the rewind thread. After step-4, run SimWL on the
messages generated in the main thread to compute {xi}i∈M. Output the
view of the adversary A and {xi}i∈M.
(b) Sample uniform random tape {rj}j∈H and execute the protocol honestly
with the 1-rewinding adversary A using the honest inputs {Kj, xj}j∈H
with the above random tape. Run ExtWL,S(1λ, {Kj, xj, rj}j∈H) to obtain
{xi}i∈M. Output view of the adversary in the above honest execution along
with {xi}i∈M.
1. Run SimWL(1λ, M) to obtain {msgj
1}j∈H
and send this to A. Receive
{msgi
1}i∈M from A.
2. Run SimWL({msgi
1}i∈M) to obtain ({Ki}i∈M, st).
3. Compute the output of the watchlist received by the parties in M when
the honest sender inputs are {xj}j∈H and the malicious receiver inputs are
{Ki}i∈M. Let {σi}i∈M be this output.
4. For each r ∈{2, 3}:
(a) Run SimWL({σi}i∈M, st, {msgi
k}k∈[r−1],i∈M) to obtain {msgj
r}j∈H and
send this to A. Receive {msgi
r}i∈M from A.
5. Run SimWL({msgi
k}i∈M,k∈[3]) to obtain {xi}i∈M.
6. Compute the output of the watchlist received by the parties in H when
the honest receiver inputs are {Kj}j∈H and the malicious sender inputs are
{xi}i∈M. Let {σj}j∈H be this output.
7. Output view of A and {σj}j∈H.
Fig. 3. Description of IdealSP S.
4.2
Construction
Our construction is described in Fig. 4, and makes use of the following ingredi-
ents:

Round-Optimal Black-Box MPC in the Plain Model
411
– A 3 round two-party secure computation protocol Π satisfying Deﬁnition
3 with delayed-function selection for NC1 circuits and 2-rewinding sender
security.
– An information-theoretic m(λ) · ℓ(λ) non-malleable coding scheme satisfy-
ing Deﬁnition 1.
– A low-depth proof for P according to Deﬁnition 2.
– An existentially unforgetable signature scheme with algorithms denoted by
Signature.Setup, Signature.Sign and Signature.Verify.
We describe our protocol formally in Fig. 4. The correctness of this protocol
follows from correctness of the underlying oblivious transfer, non-malleable codes
and signature scheme. In what follows, we formally prove security according to
Deﬁnition 4.
Theorem 1. Let λ denote the security parameter, and m = m(λ), k = k(λ), ℓ=
ℓ(λ) be arbitrary polynomials. There exists a 3 round ℓnon-malleable

m
k

obliv-
ious transfer protocol satisfying Deﬁnition 4 that makes black-box use of any 3
round two-party secure computation protocol Π satisfying Deﬁnition 3 with 2-
rewinding sender security, and any existentially unforgeable signature scheme.
Proof of Theorem 1. We observe that properties 2 and 3 carry over from the prop-
erties of the underlying two-party computation protocol, and 1 is implied by 4
together with SPS security of the two-party protocol against malicious adver-
saries (following [IKSS21]). Our key goal is to prove that the protocol satisﬁes
property 4. To keep exposition simple, we prove this property against polyno-
mial time distinguishers. We note that indistinguishability against distinguishers
running in time which is polynomial in the running time of SPExtWL,R follows
directly from the 2-rewinding sender security of the underlying 2PC protocol
against such distinguishers.
We now consider a man-in-the-middle adversary that participates as an OT
receiver in upto ℓ(λ) executions of this protocol on the right, and participates
as an OT sender in upto ℓ(λ) executions on the left. Towards proving that our
protocol satisﬁes property 1, we will prove that there exists a PPT algorithm
Sim-Ext, that with black-box access to the MIM, and to ℓcopies of the ideal OT
functionality OT = {OTj({mi,j}i∈[m], ·)}j∈[ℓ] and with input {Kj}j∈[ℓ], simu-
lates an execution of the protocol with the MIM and extracts all the inputs
{({mi,j}i∈[m])}j∈[ℓ] used by the MIM in the executions where the MIM is sender.
We will prove that the 1-rewinding view output by Sim-Ext, that we denote by
IdealMIM({mi,j}i∈[m],j∈[ℓ], {Kj}j∈[ℓ]) will be such that
RealMIM⟨{Sj({mi,j}i∈[m])}j∈[ℓ], {Rj(Kj)}j∈[ℓ]⟩≈c IdealMIM({mi,j}i∈[m],j∈[ℓ], {Kj}j∈[ℓ])
where the expression on the left denotes the joint distribution of the view and
messages committed by a 1-rewinding adversary in an interaction where honest
senders Sj have inputs {mi,j}i∈[m], and honest receivers Rj have inputs Kj.

412
Y. Ishai et al.
Inputs: Sender S has inputs {mj}j∈m and receiver R has input a set K ⊆[m]
where |K| = k.
Protocol: S and R do the following.
1. S samples (vk, sk) ←Signature.Setup(1λ), then does the following.
– For each i ∈[λ], j ∈[m], pick uniform randomness ri,j and compute
(Li,j, Mi,j, Ri,j) = NM.Code((vk|mj); ri,j).
– Set instance x = (vk, {(Li,j, Mi,j, Ri,j, mj)}i∈[λ],j∈[m]) and language
L =

(vk, {(Li,j, Mi,j, Ri,j, mj)}i∈[λ],j∈[m]) :
∀i ∈[λ], j ∈[m], NM.Decode(Li,j, Mi,j, Ri,j) = (vk|mj)

.
Compute ldp = LDP.Prove(x, L).
2. For each i ∈[λ], R picks ci ←{0, 1, 2}.
3. Both parties engage in the protocol Π to compute functionality F where:
– R plays the receiver with input K committed in round 1 and delayed
function (c1, . . . , cλ) chosen in round 2.
– S
plays
the
sender
with
input
(x, ldp),
where
x
is
parsed
as
(vk, {mj, (Li,j, Mi,j, Ri,j)}i∈[λ],j∈[m].
– The functionality F on input (vk, {mj, Li,j, Mi,j, Ri,j}i∈[λ],j∈[m], K, {ci}i∈[λ])
generates an output as follows:
• If LDP.Verify(x, ldp) ̸= 1, output ⊥. Otherwise set out = vk, {mj}j∈K.
• Additionally, for every i ∈[λ], if ci = 0, append ({Li,j}j∈[m]) to out,
if ci = 1, append ({Mi,j}j∈[m]) to out, else append ({Ri,j}j∈[m]) to
out.
• Output out.
Additionally, S signs messages generated according to Π, denoted
by
(Π1, Π3).
It
sets
σ1
=
Signature.Sign(Π1, idS, sk),
σ3
=
Signature.Sign(Π3, idS, sk) where idS is the identity of the sender. It sends
(σ1, σ3) to R.
4. R obtains output out and parses out = (vk, {mj}j∈K, ·). It outputs {mj}j∈K
iﬀSignature.Verify(σ1, Π1, idSvk)∧Signature.Verify(σ3, Π3, idS, vk) = 1, other-
wise outputs ⊥.
Fig. 4. ℓ(λ) Non-Malleable m(λ)-choose-k(λ) Oblivious Transfer
To prove indistinguishability, we deﬁne a sequence of hybrid experiments,
where the ﬁrst one outputs the distribution RealMIM⟨{Sj({mi,j}i∈[m])}j∈[ℓ],
{Rj(Kj)}j∈[ℓ]
and
the
ﬁnal
one
outputs
the
distribution
IdealMIM
({mi,j}i∈[m],j∈[ℓ], {Kj}j∈[ℓ]). Formally, these hybrids are deﬁned as follows:
Hyb0 : This corresponds to an execution of the MIM with ℓhonest senders
{Sj}j∈[ℓ] on the left, each using inputs {mi,j}i∈[m] respectively and ℓhonest

Round-Optimal Black-Box MPC in the Plain Model
413
receivers on the right with inputs ({Kj}j∈[ℓ]) respectively. The output of this
hybrid is RealMIM⟨{Sj({mi,j}i∈[m])}j∈[ℓ], {Rj(Kj)}j∈[ℓ].
Hyb1 : This experiment modiﬁes Hyb1 by introducing an additional abort
condition.
Speciﬁcally,
the
experiment
ﬁrst
executes
the
complete
pro-
tocol
corresponding
to
the
real
execution
of
the
MIM
exactly
as
in
Hyb0
(including
rewinding
the
MIM
once)
to
obtain
the
distribution
RealMIM⟨{Sj({mi,j}i∈[m])}j∈[ℓ], {Rj(Kj)}j∈[ℓ]⟩.
Let p(λ) denote the probability that the MIM completes this execution with-
out aborting. Set γ(λ) = max

λ, p−2(λ)

. With the ﬁrst two rounds of the tran-
script ﬁxed, the rewind the right execution up to γ2(λ) times, picking inputs
(cj
1, . . . , cj
λ) for each of the ℓreceivers {Rj}j∈[ℓ] independently and uniformly
at random in every run. If there exist two rewinding threads where the MIM
completes the protocol execution, denote the inputs chosen by the challenger
on behalf of the honest receiver in these rewinding threads by (c′j
1, . . . , c′j
λ) and
(c′′j
1, . . . , c′′j
λ) respectively. For every j ∈[ℓ], let index αj ∈[λ] be such that
cj
αj = 0, c′j
αj = 1, c′′j
αj = 2.
Additionally for every j ∈[ℓ], i ∈[m], use (Lj
αj,i, Mj
αj,i, Rj
αj,i) obtained as
output from the main and rewinding executions respectively to compute mj
i =
NM.Decode(Lj
αj,i, Mj
αj,i, Rj
αj,i).
If no such rewinding thread exists, or if there exists j ∈[ℓ] for which there
does not exist α ∈[λ] such that cj
α = 0, c′j
α = 1, c′′j
α = 2, then set mj
i = ⊥for
all i ∈[m]. Now, the output of this hybrid is the joint distribution
ViewMIM⟨{Sj({mj
i}i∈[m])}j∈[ℓ], {Rj(Kj)}j∈[ℓ]⟩, {mj
i}j∈[ℓ],i∈[m].
Lemma 2. For every unbounded distinguisher D and large enough λ ∈N,
			Pr[D(Hyb0) = 1] −Pr[D(Hyb1) = 1]
			 = negl(λ)
Proof. Since the MIM’s inputs {mj
i}j∈[ℓ] are committed in round 1 of the pro-
tocol, then conditioned on the adversary providing a non-aborting transcript in
rewinding executions in Hyb1, by simulation security of the 2pc, {(mj
i}j∈[ℓ] are
correctly extracted.
Therefore, to prove this lemma it suﬃces to show that two rewinding exe-
cutions (with a non-aborting transcript) can be found within γ2(λ) attempts,
except with probability negl(λ). To see this, we observe that the probability of
a non-aborting transcript is p(λ), and therefore, the probability that γ2(λ) −1
out of the γ2(λ) trials abort is negl(λ).
Hyb2: This experiment modiﬁes Hyb1 to execute the superpolynomial simulator
of Π in all sessions where the MIM is a receiver. Speciﬁcally, in these executions,
instead of the honest sender strategy with input {mj
i}i∈[m],j∈[ℓ], we execute the

414
Y. Ishai et al.
superpolynomial simulator Sim-2PC
MIM,F(inpSj ,·)
Sen
where
inpSj = ({mj
i, Lj
1,i, . . . , Lj
λ,i, Mj
1,i, . . . , Mj
λ,i, Rj
1,i, . . . , Rj
λ,i}i∈[m]).
Sim-2PCSen expects round 1 and round 2 messages from the MIM, and the MIM
in turn expects corresponding messages from the receiver in the right execution.
Receiver messages for the right execution are generated using honest receiver
strategy with inputs Kj ﬁxed, and inputs cj
1, . . . , cj
λ chosen uniformly at random,
exactly as in Hyb1. Denote the view of the MIM by
ViewSim
{F(inpSj ,·)}j∈[ℓ]⟨{Rj(Kj)}j∈[ℓ]⟩,
where for every j ∈[ℓ], inpSj is as deﬁned above.
Next, with the ﬁrst round of the transcript ﬁxed, the challenger rewinds the
right execution up to γ2(λ) times, picking inputs (cj
1, . . . , cj
λ) for Rj indepen-
dently and uniformly at random in every run, and generating messages in the
left execution by running the simulator Sim-2PCSen each time.
If there exist two rewinding executions where the MIM completes the proto-
col, denote the inputs chosen by the challenger on behalf of the honest receiver
in this rewinding thread by (c′j
1, . . . , c′j
λ) and (c′′j
1, . . . , c′′j
λ) respectively. For
every j ∈[ℓ], let index αj ∈[λ] be such that cj
αj = 0, c′j
αj = 1, c′′j
αj = 2.
Additionally for every j ∈[ℓ], i ∈[m], use (Lj
αj,i, Mj
αj,i, Rj
αj,i) obtained as
output from the main and the two rewinding executions respectively to com-
pute mj
i = NM.Decode(Lj
αj,i, Mj
αj,i, Rj
αj,i). If no such rewinding thread exists,
or if there exists j ∈[ℓ] for which there does not exist α ∈[λ] such that
cj
α = 0, c′j
α = 1, c′′j
α = 2, then abort.
The output of this hybrid is the joint distribution:
ViewSim
{F(inpSj ,·)}j∈[ℓ]⟨{Rj(Kj)}j∈[ℓ]⟩, {mj
i}j∈[ℓ],i∈[m],
where for every j ∈[ℓ], inpSj is as deﬁned above.
Lemma 3. Assuming 2-rewinding secure two party computation according to
Deﬁnition 3, for every PPT distinguisher D and large enough λ ∈N,
			Pr[D(Hyb1) = 1] −Pr[D(Hyb2) = 1]
			 = negl(λ)
Proof. We consider a sequence of sub-hybrids Hyb1,0, Hyb1,1, . . . Hyb1,ℓwhere for
every j ∈[ℓ], Hyb1,j is identical to Hyb1,j−1, except that instead of executing
the honest sender strategy using honest sender inputs {mj
i}i∈[m], we execute the
simulator in the jth left execution, where Sim-2PC
MIM,F(inpSj ,·)
Sen
where
inpSj = ({mj
i, Lj
1,i, . . . , Lj
λ,i, Mj
1,i, . . . , Mj
λ,i, Rj
1,i, . . . , Rj
λ,i}i∈[m])
Suppose the lemma is not true. Then for every large enough λ ∈N there
exists j∗(λ) ∈[ℓ(λ)], a polynomial p(·) and a distinguisher D such that for
inﬁnitely many λ ∈N,
			Pr[D(Hyb1,j∗−1) = 1] −Pr[D(Hyb1,j∗) = 1]
			 =
1
q(λ)

Round-Optimal Black-Box MPC in the Plain Model
415
We derive a contradiction by building a reduction A that on input λ, obtains
j∗(λ) as advice and with black-box access to the MIM and to D contradicts 2-
rewinding security of the two party computation protocol. A proceeds as follows:
– A ﬁrst creates receiver R′ that interacts with the external challenger as fol-
lows.
• Obtain the ﬁrst round sender message from the 2pc challenger, and for-
ward this to the MIM as Sj∗’s message in the j∗th left execution. In
addition, generate the ﬁrst round messages according to receiver strat-
egy with inputs {Kj}j∈[ℓ] for the right execution. Obtain the ﬁrst round
message from the MIM, which includes a (malicious) sender message for
the right execution and a (malicious) receiver message for the left execu-
tion. Output the MIM’s receiver message in the j∗th left execution to the
challenger of the 2pc.
• Generate the second round message for the right execution according to
honest receiver strategy, and obtain the second round message for the left
execution from the challenger. Forward the MIM’s message in left session
j∗to the challenger.
• Obtain the third round message for the left execution externally from
the challenger, and forward this to the MIM as S’s message in the j∗th
left execution. Generate messages for the right executions using honest
receiver strategy. Obtain the third round message from the MIM for the
right execution.
– Next, A rewinds R′ twice with ﬁxed ﬁrst round, and obtains MIM outputs
as follows.
• Run the second round with honest receiver strategy on the right, and
obtain challenger messages on the left. Obtain the second round mes-
sage from the MIM, and output the MIM’s message in session j∗to the
challenger.
• Obtain the third round message for the left execution externally from the
challenger, and forward this to the MIM as S’s message in the j∗th left
execution. Obtain the third round messages from the MIM.
– If none of the executions abort, for every j ∈[ℓ], ﬁnd αj ∈[λ] such
that cj
αj = 0, c′j
αj = 1, c′′j
αj = 2. If these do not exist, abort. Other-
wise use the outputs of the two-party computation protocol to compute
mj
i = NM.Decode(Lj
αj,i, Mj
αj,i, Rj
αj,i) for i ∈[m], j ∈[ℓ]. Else, set mj
i = ⊥
for i ∈[m], j ∈[ℓ]
– A outputs the entire view of R′ together with {mj
i}i∈[m],j∈[ℓ]. If the challenger
used honest sender messages, we denote the distribution output by A in this
experiment by Dist1 and if the challenger used simulated messages, we denote
the distribution output by A in this experiment by Dist2.
If the challenger’s messages correspond to the real sender S, then the distribu-
tion output by A conditioned on not aborting corresponds to Hyb1, and if the
challenger’s messages correspond to Sim-2PCSen, then the distribution output by
A conditioned on not aborting corresponds to Hyb2.

416
Y. Ishai et al.
By assumption, for inﬁnitely many λ ∈N,
			Pr[D(Hyb1) = 1] −Pr[D(Hyb2) = 1]
			 =
1
q(λ)
Since the MIM completes any run of the protocol without aborting with prob-
ability at least p(λ), and because aborts are independent of the distinguishing
advantage, for inﬁnitely many λ ∈N:
			Pr[D = 1 ∧¬abort|Hyb1] −Pr[D = 1 ∧¬abort|Hyb2]
			 ≥
1
p2(λ) · q(λ)
where ¬abort denotes the event that an execution that is completed in the main
thread, is also completed without aborting in one rewinding execution.
This implies that for inﬁnitely many λ ∈N:
			Pr[D(Dist1) = 1] −Pr[D(Dist2) = 1]
			 ≥
1
p2(λ) · q(λ),
where Dist1 and Dist2 denote the real and ideal distributions of the underlying
2-party computation protocol under 2-rewinding security. This implies that D
contradicts 2-rewinding security of the two party computation protocol.
Hyb3: This hybrid is the same as Hyb2 except whenever the challenger obtains
as output a veriﬁcation key in one of the right sessions that is identical to a
veriﬁcation key used in one of the left sessions, the hybrid outputs ⊥. By exis-
tential unforgeability of the signature scheme, given any PPT adversary MIM,
Hyb2 and Hyb3 are computationally indistinguishable.
Hyb4: This hybrid is the same as Hyb3 except that inpSj is set diﬀerently.
Speciﬁcally, for every j ∈[ℓ], i ∈[m] and α ∈[λ], we set (Lj
α,i, Mj
α,i, Rj
α,i) ←
NM.Sim(1p(λ)), and set
inpSj = ({mj
i, Lj
1,i, . . . , Lj
λ,i, Mj
1,i, . . . , Mj
λ,i, Rj
1,i, . . . , Rj
λ,i}i∈[m]).
We note that at this point, the functionality {F(inpSj, ·)}j∈[ℓ] can be perfectly
simulated with access to the ideal functionality {OTj(mj
i, mj
i, ·)}j∈[ℓ]. Moreover,
this hybrid runs the super-polynomial simulator of the two-party computation
protocol, which can be split into a straight-line simulator that extracts adver-
sarial receiver input from the ﬁrst round, and then a rewinding-based expected
polynomial-time simulator that extracts adversarial sender input. The latter
can also be replaced by a straight-line superpolynomial simulator that extracts
the adversarial sender-input by running the straight-line superpolynomial sim-
ulator of the two-party computation protocol. Finally, as long as the under-
lying two-party computation protocol has its ideal distribution be identical
to an honest execution with dummy inputs, the same is true for our proto-
col. Therefore, the output of this hybrid is identical to the ideal distribution
IdealMIM({mj
i}i∈[m],j∈[ℓ], {Kj}j∈[ℓ]).

Round-Optimal Black-Box MPC in the Plain Model
417
Lemma 4. Assuming m(λ)·ℓ(λ) symmetric non-malleable codes satisfying Def-
inition 1, for every unbounded distinguisher D and large enough λ ∈N,
			Pr[D(Hyb4) = 1] −Pr[D(Hyb3) = 1]
			 = negl(λ)
Proof. We prove indistinguishability between Hyb3 and Hyb4 by considering a
sequence of sub-hybrids, {Hyb3,i,j,k}i∈[1,m],j∈[1,ℓ],k∈[0,λ] where:
– Hyb3 = Hyb3,0,ℓ,λ, Hyb4 = Hyb3,m,ℓ,λ,
– for i ∈[m], Hyb3,i−1,ℓ,λ = Hyb3,i,1,0
– for j ∈[ℓ], Hyb3,i,j−1,λ = Hyb3,i,j,0,
– for every i ∈[m], j ∈[ℓ], k ∈[λ], Hyb3,i,j,k is identical to Hyb3,i,j,k−1 except
that Hyb3,i,j,k samples (Lj
k,i, Mj
k,i, Rj
k,i) ←NM.Code(0).
Suppose the lemma is not true. Then there exists i∗∈[m], j∗∈[ℓ], k∗∈[λ],
an unbounded distinguisher D and a polynomial p(·) such that for large enough
λ ∈N,
			Pr[D(Hyb3,i∗,j∗,k∗) = 1] −Pr[D(Hyb3,i∗,j∗,k∗−1) = 1]
			 =
1
p(λ)
(1)
We now deﬁne a set of tampering functions (fMIM, gMIM, hMIM), and a set of
additional functions (wMIM, yMIM, zMIM). Before deﬁning them, we deﬁne a shared
state for these functions, that is generated as follows:
– Execute Sim-2PCMIM
Sen , using honest R strategy in the right executions with
input {Kj}j∈[ℓ] and uniformly chosen {cj
1, . . . cj
λ}j∈[ℓ], until Sim-2PCSen gen-
erates a query to the ideal functionality F at the end of round 2.
– At this point, Sim-2PCMIM
Sen
outputs a view and transcript of the MIM until
the third round, as well as { Kj}j∈[ℓ] that correspond to the receiver’s inputs
in the left execution.
– Rewind the second round twice with uniformly and independently chosen
{c′j
1, . . . , c′j
λ}j∈[ℓ] and {c′′j
1, . . . , c′′j
λ}j∈[ℓ] respectively in each rewind. If for
every j ∈[ℓ(λ)], there exists αj ∈[λ] such that cj
αj = 0, c′j
αj = 1, c′′j
αj = 2,
continue, otherwise abort.
– Obtain the rewinding message of the adversary in the second round (with
the same ﬁrst round preﬁx), as well as (c1, . . . , cn) and (
c1, . . . ,
cn) that cor-
respond to the receiver’s chosen functions in the j∗th left session in this
rewinding execution.
– If ck∗, ck∗and 
ck∗are all diﬀerent, continue. Otherwise, abort.
– Generate (Lj
k,i, Mj
k,i, Rj
k,i) for every (i, j, k) ∈[m] × [ℓ] × [λ] \ {i∗, j∗, k∗}
according to Hyb3,i∗,j∗,k∗−1 (this is identical to setting them according to
Hyb3,i∗,j∗,k∗).
– Output the view of the MIM until round 2 in the main the rewinding
threads,
and
also
output
(i∗, j∗, k∗),
and
the
values
(Lj
k,i, Mj
k,i,
Rj
k,i)(i,j,k)∈[m]×[ℓ]×[λ]\{i∗,j∗,k∗}.

418
Y. Ishai et al.
– Additionally, output the receiver’s inputs { Kj,cj
1, . . . ,cj
λ}j∈[ℓ] and also output
the sender’s inputs {skj, vkj, {mj
i}i∈[m]}j∈[ℓ], along with randomness r.
The functions fMIM,i,j, gMIM,i,j and hMIM,i,j correspond to tampering functions,
and are deﬁned as follows.
– The deterministic function fMIM,i,j on input L, sets Lj∗
k∗,i∗= L, Mj∗
k∗,i∗=
0, Rj∗
k∗,i∗= 0.
Now, using hardwired values {vkj, {mj
i}i∈[m]}j∈[ℓ], { Kj,cj
1, . . . ,cj
λ}j∈[ℓ] as
well as the values (Lj
k,i, Mj
k,i, Rj
k,i)(i,j,k)∈[m]×[ℓ]×[λ]\{i∗,j∗,k∗}, it computes
out = {Fj(vkj, {mi, Lj
k,i, Mj
k,i, Rj
k,i}i∈[m],k∈[λ], Kj, {cj
k}k∈[λ])}j∈[ℓ].
It then invokes Sim-2PCSen using randomness r on out to generate the third
round message of the protocol transcript in the thread corresponding to the
receiver challenge being 0. It outputs the value Lj
αj,i or Mj
αj,i or Rj
αj,i obtained
from the MIM.
– The function gMIM,i,j on input M, sets Mj∗
k∗,i∗= M, Rj∗
k∗,i∗= Lj∗
k∗,i∗= 0.
Now, using hardwired values {vkj, {mj
i}i∈[m]}j∈[ℓ], { Kj,cj
1, . . . ,cj
λ}j∈[ℓ] as
well as the values (Lj
k,i, Mj
k,i, Rj
k,i)(i,j,k)∈[m]×[ℓ]×[λ]\{i∗,j∗,k∗}, it computes
out = {Fj(vkj, {mi, Lj
k,i, Mj
k,i, Rj
k,i}i∈[m],k∈[λ], Kj, {cj
k}k∈[λ])}j∈[ℓ].
It then invokes Sim-2PCSen using randomness r on out to generate the third
round message of the protocol transcript in the thread corresponding to the
receiver challenge being 1. It outputs the value Lj
αj,i or Mj
αj,i or Rj
αj,i obtained
from the MIM.
– The function hMIM,i,j on input R, sets Rj∗
k∗,i∗= R, Mj∗
k∗,i∗= Lj∗
k∗,i∗= 0.
Now, using hardwired values {vkj, {mj
i}i∈[m]}j∈[ℓ], { Kj,cj
1, . . . ,cj
λ}j∈[ℓ] as
well as the values (Lj
k,i, Mj
k,i, Rj
k,i)(i,j,k)∈[m]×[ℓ]×[λ]\{i∗,j∗,k∗}, it computes
out = {Fj(vkj, {mi, Lj
k,i, Mj
k,i, Rj
k,i}i∈[m],k∈[λ], Kj, {cj
k}k∈[λ])}j∈[ℓ].
It then invokes Sim-2PCSen using randomness r on out to generate the third
round message of the protocol transcript in the thread corresponding to the
receiver challenge being 2. It outputs the value Lj
αj,i or Mj
αj,i or Rj
αj,i obtained
from the MIM.
The functions wMIM, yMIM, zMIM generate the threads themselves and are deﬁned
as follows.
– Next, the function wMIM on input L, sets Lj∗
k∗,i∗= L, Mj∗
k∗,i∗= 0, Rj∗
k∗,i∗= 0.
Now, using hardwired values {vkj, {mj
i}i∈[m]}j∈[ℓ], { Kj,cj
1, . . . ,cj
λ}j∈[ℓ] as
well as the values (Lj
k,i, Mj
k,i, Rj
k,i)(i,j,k)∈[m]×[ℓ]×[λ]\{i∗,j∗,k∗}, it computes
out = {Fj(vkj, {mi, Lj
k,i, Rj
k,i}i∈[m],k∈[λ], Kj, {cj
k}k∈[λ])}j∈[ℓ].

Round-Optimal Black-Box MPC in the Plain Model
419
It then invokes Sim-2PCSen on out to generate the third round message of
the protocol transcript in the thread corresponding to receiver left challenge
being 0. It outputs the resulting transcript as one thread in the view of the
MIM.
– Next, the function yMIM on input M, sets Lj∗
k∗,i∗= 0, Mj∗
k∗,i∗= M, Rj∗
k∗,i∗= 0.
Now, using hardwired values {vkj, {mj
i}i∈[m]}j∈[ℓ], { Kj,cj
1, . . . ,cj
λ}j∈[ℓ] as
well as the values (Lj
k,i, Mj
k,i, Rj
k,i)(i,j,k)∈[m]×[ℓ]×[λ]\{i∗,j∗,k∗}, it computes
out = {Fj(vkj, {mi, Lj
k,i, Rj
k,i}i∈[m],k∈[λ], Kj, {cj
k}k∈[λ])}j∈[ℓ].
It then invokes Sim-2PCSen on out to generate the third round message of
the protocol transcript in the thread corresponding to receiver left challenge
being 1. It outputs the resulting transcript as another thread in the view of
the MIM.
– Next, the function zMIM on input R, sets Lj∗
k∗,i∗= 0, Mj∗
k∗,i∗= 0, Rj∗
k∗,i∗= R.
Now, using hardwired values {vkj, {mj
i}i∈[m]}j∈[ℓ], { Kj,cj
1, . . . ,cj
λ}j∈[ℓ] as
well as the values (Lj
k,i, Mj
k,i, Rj
k,i)(i,j,k)∈[m]×[ℓ]×[λ]\{i∗,j∗,k∗}, it computes
out = {Fj(vkj, {mi, Lj
k,i, Rj
k,i}i∈[m],k∈[λ], Kj, {cj
k}k∈[λ])}j∈[ℓ].
It then invokes Sim-2PCSen on out to generate the third round message of
the protocol transcript in the thread corresponding to receiver left challenge
being 2. It outputs the resulting transcript as another thread in the view of
the MIM.
Note that there is a ﬁxed set of permutations σi,j
such that fMIM,i,j,
gMIM,i,j, hMIM,i,j can be relabeled as functions Fi,j, Gi,j, Hi,j such that Fi,j out-
puts L values, Gi,j outputs 
M values, and Hi,j outputs R values.
By Deﬁnition 1 of ℓaugmented non-malleable codes, we have that for every
permutation σ and σ′ on L, M, R, and every Fi,j, Gi,j and Hi,j,

σ′(L), σ′(M), {NM.Decode

Fi,j(σi,j(L)), Gi,j(σi,j(M)), Hi,j(σi,j(R))

}i,j
			L, M, R ←NM.Code(mj∗
i∗)

≈ϵ

σ′(L), σ′(M), {NM.Decode

Fi,j(σi,j(L)), Gi,j(σi,j(M)), Hi,j(σi,j(R))

}i,j
			L, M, R ←NM.Code(0)

But these distributions upon post-processing (via the functions wMIM,
yMIM, zMIM) exactly correspond to the outputs of Hyb3,i∗,j∗,k∗−1 and Hyb3,i∗,j∗,k∗
respectively, whenever cj∗
k∗, cj∗
k∗and 
cj∗
k∗are all diﬀerent. On the other hand,
when any two of the three values cj∗
k∗, cj∗
k∗and 
cj∗
k∗are identical, the distribu-
tions Hyb3,i∗,j∗,k∗−1 and Hyb3,i∗,j∗,k∗are statistically indistinguishable because
of the two-out-of-three secret sharing property of the code, i.e. they jointly do
not depend on all three of the shares, L, R and M. Since ϵ(λ) = negl(λ), this
contradicts Eq. (1), as desired.

420
Y. Ishai et al.
Finally, this proof also extends to show that security of the watchlist protocol
holds against sub-exponential adversaries that run in time less than or equal to
T, where T denotes the running time of adversaries against which the underlying
two-party computation protocol is 2-rewinding sender secure.
5
4-Round Black-Box MPC Protocol
In this section, we give our construction of a four-round black-box MPC proto-
col from any two-message OT protocol that has super-polynomial time security
against malicious receivers and sub-exponential indistinguishability-based secu-
rity against malicious senders. Speciﬁcally, we prove the following theorem.
Theorem 2. For some ϵ > 0, assume black-box access to a two-round oblivious
transfer protocol with super-polynomial time simulation security against mali-
cious receivers and (2λϵ, 2−λϵ)-indistinguishability-based security against mali-
cious senders. Then, there exists a four-round protocol for computing general
functions.
5.1
Building Blocks
The construction makes use of the following building blocks:
1. A three-round watchlist protocol WL = (WL1, WL2, WL3, outWL) satisfying
Deﬁnition 4. Let T1(λ) (abbreviated as T1) be the running time of SimWL
(which is the SPS simulator for the watchlist protocol). Let T2(λ) (abbre-
viated as T2) to be the running time of SimWL,R (which is the special SPS
extractor that over extracts the receiver inputs).
2. A two-round n-client, m-server MPC protocol Φ = (Φ1, Φ2, outΦ) that sat-
isﬁes ((T1 + T2) · poly(·), negl)-privacy with knowledge of outputs property
against any adversary corrupting upto t servers and an arbitrary number of
clients. By (T, ϵ)-security, we require ϵ distinguishing advantage against any
adversary that runs in time T. By privacy with knowledge of outputs [IKP10],
we consider a weaker notion of security (when compared to standard mali-
cious security in the real/ideal paradigm), wherein the adversary has the
additional power to determine the outputs of the honest parties. This is mod-
elled by the ideal functionality getting an output to be delivered to the honest
parties from the adversary. We call this protocol as the outer protocol. We
set t = 2λn2 and m = 3t+1. We need this protocol to additionally satisfy the
property that the ﬁrst round message generated by the simulator on behalf
of the honest clients to the corrupted servers is identically distributed to the
ﬁrst round messages generated by honest clients on some default input. We
note that [IKP10,Pas12] constructed such a protocol making black-box use of

Round-Optimal Black-Box MPC in the Plain Model
421
a ((T1 +T2)·poly(·), negl)-secure PRG. As noted in [IKSS21], we can delegate
the PRG computations done by the servers to the clients and ensure that the
computations done by the servers are information-theoretic.
3. For each h ∈[m], a three-round inner protocol Πh = (Πh,1, Πh,2, Πh,3, outΠh)
for computing the functionality of the h-th server in the outer protocol. We
require this protocol to satisfy Deﬁnition 5 (discussed below) against adver-
saries running in time (T1 + T2) · poly(λ) and the distinguishing advantage
being negl(λ).
Syntax. The three-round inner protocol computing a function f is given by a
tuple of algorithms (Π1, Π2, Π3, outΠ) with the following syntax. For each round
r ∈[3], the i-th party in the protocol runs Πr on 1λ, the index i, the private
input xi and the transcript of the protocol in the ﬁrst (r −1) rounds to obtain
πi
r. It sends πi
r to every other party via a broadcast channel. We use π(r) to
denote the transcript of Π in the ﬁrst r rounds. At the end of the interaction,
parties run the public decoder outΠ(π(3)) to compute the output.
Deﬁnition 5 ( [IKSS21]). The protocol Π is said to be an inner protocol for
computing a function f if it satisﬁes the following properties.
– Correctness. The protocol Π correctly computes a function f if for every
choice of inputs xi for party Pi,
Pr[outΠ(π(3)) = f(x1, . . . , xn)] = 1
where π(3) denotes the transcript of the protocol Π when the input of Pi is
xi.
– Security. Let A be an adversary corrupting a subset of the parties indexed
by the set M and let H be the set of indices denoting the honest parties. We
require the existence of a simulator SimΠ such that for any choice of honest
parties inputs {xi}i∈H, we have:
Real(A, {xi, ri}i∈H) ≈c Ideal(A, SimΠ, {xi}i∈H)
where the real and ideal experiments are described as in [IKSS21] (details
deferred to the full version due to lack of space).
Given these building blocks, our construction is described in Fig. 5.
Due to space constraints, the full proof of security of this construction is
deferred to the full version.

422
Y. Ishai et al.
– Round-1: In the ﬁrst round, the party Pi with input χi does the following:
1. It chooses a random MAC key ki ←{0, 1}∗and sets zi := (χi, ki).
2. It computes (φi→1
1
, . . . , φi→m
1
) ←Φ1(1λ, i, zi).
3. It chooses a random subset Ki ⊂[m] of size λ and sets xi,j = Ki for every
j ∈[n] \ {i}.
4. It chooses a random string ri,h ←{0, 1}∗for every h ∈[m] and sets
yi,j = {ri,h, φi→h
1
}h∈[m] for every j ∈[n] \ {i}.
5. It computes WLi
1 ←WL1(1λ, i, {xi,j, yi,j}j∈[n]\{i}).
6. It broadcasts WLi
1.
– Round-2: In the second round, Pi does the following:
1. For each h ∈[m], it computes πi
h,1 := Πh,1(1λ, i, φi→h
1
; ri,h).
2. It computes WLi
2 ←WL2(1λ, i, {xi,j, yi,j}j∈[n]\{i}, WL(1)). (Here, WL(r)
denotes the transcript in the ﬁrst r rounds of WL.)
3. It broadcasts {πi
h,1}h∈[m], WLi
2.
– Round-3: In the third round, Pi does the following:
1. For every h ∈[m], it computes πi
h,2 := Πh,2(1λ, i, φi→h
1
, πh(1); ri,h). (Here,
πh(r) denotes the transcript in the ﬁrst r rounds of Πh.)
2. It computes WLi
3 ←WL3(1λ, i, {xi,j, yi,j}j∈[n]\{i}, WL(2)).
3. It broadcasts {πi
h,2}h∈[m], WLi
3.
– Round-4: In the fourth round, Pi does the following:
1. It runs outWL on i, {xi,j, yi,j}j∈[n]\{i}, the random tape used to generate
the messages in WL and WL(3) to obtain {rj,h, φj→h
1
}j∈[n]\{i},h∈Ki.
2. For each j ∈[n] \ {i} and h ∈Ki, it checks:
(a) If the PRG computations in φj→h
1
are correct.
(b) For each ℓ∈[2], whether πj
h,ℓ:= Πh,ℓ(1λ, j, φj→h
1
, πh(ℓ−1); rj,h)
where πh(0) is set to be the null string.
3. If any of the above checks fail, then it aborts.
4. Else, for each h ∈[m], it computes πi
h,3 := Πh,3(1λ, i, φi→h
1
, πh(2); ri,h).
5. It broadcasts {πi
h,3}h∈[m] to every party.
– Output Computation. To compute the output, Pi does the following:
1. If a party has aborted before sending the fourth round message, output
⊥.
2. For every h ∈[m], it computes φh
2 := outΠh(i, πh(3)).
3. It runs outΦ on ({φh
2}h∈[m]) to recover (y, σ1, . . . , σn).
4. It checks if σi is a valid tag on y using the key ki. If yes, it outputs y and
otherwise, it aborts.
Fig. 5. Description of the Four-Round MPC Protocol
Acknowledgment. Y. Ishai was supported in part by ERC Project NTSC (742754),
BSF grant 2018393, ISF grant 2774/20, and a Google Faculty Research Award. D. Khu-
rana was supported in part by NSF CAREER CNS-2238718 and DARPA SIEVE. A.
Sahai was supported in part from a Simons Investigator Award, DARPA SIEVE award,
NTT Research, NSF Frontier Award 1413955, BSF grant 2012378, a Xerox Faculty
Research Award, a Google Faculty Research Award, and an Okawa Foundation Research

Round-Optimal Black-Box MPC in the Plain Model
423
Grant. This material is based upon work supported by the Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency through Award HR00112020024. A. Srinivasan was supported in part
by a SERB startup grant and Google India Research Award.
References
[AAG+16] Aggarwal, D., Agrawal, S., Gupta, D., Maji, H.K., Pandey, O., Prab-
hakaran, M.: Optimal computational split-state non-malleable codes. In:
Kushilevitz, E., Malkin, T. (eds.) TCC 2016. LNCS, vol. 9563, pp.
393–417. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-
49099-0_15
[ACJ17] Ananth, P., Choudhuri, A.R., Jain, A.: A new approach to round-optimal
secure multiparty computation. In: Katz, J., Shacham, H. (eds.) CRYPTO
2017. LNCS, vol. 10401, pp. 468–499. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-319-63688-7_16
[AIR01] Aiello, B., Ishai, Y., Reingold, O.: Priced oblivious transfer: how to sell
digital goods. In: Pﬁtzmann, B. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2001. LNCS, vol. 2045,
pp. 119–135. Springer, Heidelberg (2001). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-
44987-6_8
[BD18] Brakerski, Z., Döttling, N.: Two-message statistically sender-private OT
from LWE. In: Beimel, A., Dziembowski, S. (eds.) TCC 2018. LNCS, vol.
11240, pp. 370–390. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-030-03810-6_14
[BF22] Bitansky, N., Freizeit, S.: Statistically sender-private ot from LPN and
derandomization. In: Dodis, Y., Shrimpton, T. (eds.) Advances in Cryp-
tology, CRYPTO 2022. CRYPTO 2022. LNCS, vol. 13509. Springer, Cham
(2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15982-4_21
[BGI+17] Badrinarayanan, S., Garg, S., Ishai, Y., Sahai, A., Wadia, A.: Two-message
witness indistinguishability and secure computation in the plain model from
new assumptions. In: Takagi, T., Peyrin, T. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2017.
LNCS, vol. 10626, pp. 275–303. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-319-70700-6_10
[BGJ+18] Badrinarayanan, S., Goyal, V., Jain, A., Kalai, Y.T., Khurana, D., Sahai,
A.: Promise zero knowledge and its applications to round optimal MPC.
In: Shacham, H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2018. LNCS, vol. 10992,
pp. 459–487. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
96881-0_16
[BHP17] Brakerski, Z., Halevi, S., Polychroniadou, A.: Four round secure computa-
tion without setup. In: Kalai, Y., Reyzin, L. (eds.) TCC 2017. LNCS, vol.
10677, pp. 645–677. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-319-70500-2_22
[CCG+20] Rai Choudhuri, A., Ciampi, M., Goyal, V., Jain, A., Ostrovsky, R.: Round
optimal secure multiparty computation from minimal assumptions. In: Pass,
R., Pietrzak, K. (eds.) TCC 2020. LNCS, vol. 12551, pp. 291–319. Springer,
Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-64378-2_11
[CCG+21] Choudhuri, A.R., Ciampi, M., Goyal, V., Jain, A., Ostrovsky, R.: Oblivious
transfer from trapdoor permutations in minimal rounds. In: Nissim, K.,
Waters, B. (eds.) TCC 2021. LNCS, vol. 13043, pp. 518–549. Springer,
Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-90453-1_18

424
Y. Ishai et al.
[CGL16] Chattopadhyay, E., Goyal, V., Li, X.: Non-malleable extractors and codes,
with their many tampered extensions. In: Wichs, D., Mansour, Y. (eds.),
48th ACM STOC, pp. 285–298, Cambridge, MA, USA, 18–21 June 2016.
ACM Press
[DGH+20] Döttling, N., Garg, S., Hajiabadi, M., Masny, D., Wichs, D.: Two-round
oblivious transfer from CDH or LPN. In: Canteaut, A., Ishai, Y. (eds.)
EUROCRYPT 2020. LNCS, vol. 12106, pp. 768–797. Springer, Cham
(2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-45724-2_26
[DGI+19] Döttling, N., Garg, S., Ishai, Y., Malavolta, G., Mour, T., Ostrovsky, R.:
Trapdoor hash functions and their applications. In: Boldyreva, A., Miccian-
cio, D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019. LNCS, vol. 11694, pp. 3–32. Springer, Cham
(2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-26954-8_1
[FMV19] Friolo, D., Masny, D., Venturi, D.: A black-box construction of fully-
simulatable, round-optimal oblivious transfer from strongly uniform key
agreement. In: Hofheinz, D., Rosen, A. (eds.) TCC 2019. LNCS, vol. 11891,
pp. 111–130. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
36030-6_5
[GGH+13] Garg, S., Gentry, C., Halevi, S., Raykova, M., Sahai, A., Waters. B.: Can-
didate indistinguishability obfuscation and functional encryption for all cir-
cuits. In: 54th FOCS, pp. 40–49, Berkeley, CA, USA, 26–29 October 2013.
IEEE Computer Society Press
[GK96a] Goldreich, O., Kahan, A.: How to construct constant-round zero-knowledge
proof systems for NP. J. Cryptol. 9(3), 167–189 (1996). https://doi.org/10.
1007/BF00208001
[GK96b] Goldreich, O., Krawczyk, H.: On the composition of zero-knowledge proof
systems. SIAM J. Comput. 25(1), 169–192 (1996)
[GLOV12] Goyal, V., Lee, C.K., Ostrovsky, R., Visconti, I.: Constructing non-
malleable commitments: a black-box approach. In: 53rd FOCS, pp. 51–60,
New Brunswick, NJ, USA, 20–23 October 2012. IEEE Computer Society
Press
[GMPP16] Garg, S., Mukherjee, P., Pandey, O., Polychroniadou, A.: The exact round
complexity of secure computation. In: Fischlin, M., Coron, J.-S. (eds.)
EUROCRYPT 2016. LNCS, vol. 9666, pp. 448–476. Springer, Heidelberg
(2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-49896-5_16
[Goy11] Goyal. V.: Constant round non-malleable protocols using one way functions.
In: Fortnow, L., Vadhan, S.P. (eds.) 43rd ACM STOC, pp. 695–704, San
Jose, CA, USA, 6–8 June 2011. ACM Press
[GPR16] Goyal, V., Pandey, O., Richelson, S.: Textbook non-malleable commitments.
In: Wichs, D., Mansour, Y. (eds.) 48th ACM STOC, pp. 1128–1141, Cam-
bridge, MA, USA, 18–21 June 2016. ACM Press
[GS18] Garg, S., Srinivasan, A.: Two-round multiparty secure computation from
minimal assumptions. In: Nielsen, J.B., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EUROCRYPT
2018. LNCS, vol. 10821, pp. 468–499. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-319-78375-8_16
[GSZ21] Goyal, V., Srinivasan, A., Zhu, C.: Multi-source non-malleable extractors
and applications. In: Canteaut, A., Standaert, F.-X. (eds.) EUROCRYPT
2021. LNCS, vol. 12697, pp. 468–497. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-030-77886-6_16
[HIK+11] Haitner, I., Ishai, Y., Kushilevitz, E., Lindell, Y., Petrank, E.: Black-box
constructions of protocols for secure computation. SIAM J. Comput. 40(2),
225–266 (2011)

Round-Optimal Black-Box MPC in the Plain Model
425
[HK12] Halevi, S., Tauman Kalai, Y.: Smooth projective hashing and two-message
oblivious transfer. J. Cryptol. 25(1), 158–193 (2012)
[HPV20] Hazay, C., Pass, R., Venkitasubramaniam, M.: Which languages have 4-
round fully black-box zero-knowledge arguments from one-way functions?
In: Canteaut, A., Ishai, Y. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2020. LNCS, vol. 12107,
pp. 599–619. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
45727-3_20
[HV18] Hazay, C., Venkitasubramaniam, M.: Round-optimal fully black-box zero-
knowledge arguments from one-way permutations. In: TCC 2018. Part I,
LNCS, pp. 263–285. Springer, Heidelberg, (2018)
[IKP10] Ishai, Y., Kushilevitz, E., Paskin, A.: Secure multiparty computation with
minimal interaction. In: Rabin, T. (ed.) CRYPTO 2010. LNCS, vol. 6223,
pp. 577–594. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
642-14623-7_31
[IKSS21] Ishai, Y., Khurana, D., Sahai, A., Srinivasan, A.: On the round complexity
of black-box secure MPC. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) CRYPTO 2021.
LNCS, vol. 12826, pp. 214–243. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-84245-1_8
[IPS08] Ishai, Y., Prabhakaran, M., Sahai, A.: Founding cryptography on oblivious
transfer – eﬃciently. In: Wagner, D. (ed.) CRYPTO 2008. LNCS, vol. 5157,
pp. 572–591. Springer, Heidelberg (2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
540-85174-5_32
[Kal05] Kalai, Y.T.: Smooth projective hashing and two-message oblivious trans-
fer. In: Cramer, R. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2005. LNCS, vol. 3494, pp. 78–95.
Springer, Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/11426639_5
[KO04] Katz, J., Ostrovsky, R.: Round-optimal secure two-party computation. In:
Franklin, M. (ed.) CRYPTO 2004. LNCS, vol. 3152, pp. 335–354. Springer,
Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-28628-8_21
[KOS18] Kiyoshima, S.: Round-optimal black-box commit-and-prove with succinct
communication. In: Micciancio, D., Ristenpart, T. (eds.) CRYPTO 2020.
LNCS, vol. 12171, pp. 533–561. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-56880-1_19
[KS17] Khurana, D., Sahai, A.: Two-message non-malleable commitments from
standard sub-exponential assumptions. IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive
2017, 291 (2017)
[MOSV22] Madathil, V., Orsini, C., Scafuro, A., Venturi. D.: From privacy-only to
simulatable OT: black-box, round-optimal, information-theoretic. In: ITC
2022, vol. 230, pp.5:1–5:20 (2022)
[NP01] Naor, M., Pinkas. B.: Eﬃcient oblivious transfer protocols. In: Rao
Kosaraju, S. (ed.) Proceedings of the Twelfth Annual Symposium on Dis-
crete Algorithms, 7–9 January 2001, Washington, DC, USA., pp. 448–457.
ACM/SIAM (2001)
[ORS15] Ostrovsky, R., Richelson, S., Scafuro, A.: Round-optimal black-box two-
party computation. In: Gennaro, R., Robshaw, M. (eds.) CRYPTO 2015.
LNCS, vol. 9216, pp. 339–358. Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-662-48000-7_17
[Pas12] Paskin-Cherniavsky. A.: Secure computation with minimal interaction.
Ph.D. thesis, Technion, 2012. http://www.cs.technion.ac.il/users/wwwb/
cgi-bin/tr-get.cgi/2012/PHD/PHD-2012-16.pdf

426
Y. Ishai et al.
[PS21] Patra, A., Srinivasan, A.: Three-round secure multiparty computation from
black-box two-round oblivious transfer. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2021. LNCS, vol. 12826, pp. 185–213. Springer, Cham (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84245-1_7
[RTV04] Reingold, O., Trevisan, L., Vadhan, S.: Notions of reducibility between cryp-
tographic primitives. In: Naor, M. (ed.) TCC 2004. LNCS, vol. 2951, pp. 1–
20. Springer, Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-24638-
1_1
[Wee10] Wee. H.: Black-box, round-eﬃcient secure computation via non-malleability
ampliﬁcation. In: 51st FOCS, pp. 531–540, Las Vegas, NV, USA, October
23–26, 2010. IEEE Computer Society Press

