Secret Sharing with Certiﬁed Deletion
James Bartusek1(B) and Justin Raizes2
1 UC Berkeley, Berkeley, USA
james.bartusek@gmail.com
2 Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, USA
jraizes@cmu.edu
Abstract. Secret sharing allows a user to split a secret into many shares
so that the secret can be recovered if, and only if, an authorized set of
shares is collected. Although secret sharing typically does not require
any computational hardness assumptions, its security does require that
an adversary cannot collect an authorized set of shares. Over long peri-
ods of time where an adversary can beneﬁt from multiple data breaches,
this may become an unrealistic assumption.
We initiate the systematic study of secret sharing with certiﬁed dele-
tion in order to achieve security even against an adversary that eventu-
ally collects an authorized set of shares. In secret sharing with certiﬁed
deletion, a (classical) secret s is split into quantum shares that can be
destroyed in a manner veriﬁable by the dealer.
We put forth two natural deﬁnitions of security. No-signaling secu-
rity roughly requires that if multiple non-communicating adversaries
delete suﬃciently many shares, then their combined view contains negli-
gible information about s, even if the total set of corrupted parties forms
an authorized set. Adaptive security requires privacy of s against an
adversary that can continuously and adaptively corrupt new shares and
delete previously-corrupted shares, as long as the total set of corrupted
shares minus deleted shares remains unauthorized.
Next, we show that these security deﬁnitions are achievable: we show
how to construct (i) a secret sharing scheme with no-signaling certiﬁed
deletion for any monotone access structure, and (ii) a threshold secret
sharing scheme with adaptive certiﬁed deletion. Our ﬁrst construction
uses Bartusek and Khurana’s (CRYPTO 2023) 2-out-of-2 secret sharing
scheme with certiﬁed deletion as a building block, while our second con-
struction is built from scratch and requires several new technical ideas.
For example, we signiﬁcantly generalize the “XOR extractor” of Agarwal,
Bartusek, Khurana, and Kumar (EUROCRYPT 2023) in order to obtain
better seedless extraction from certain quantum sources of entropy, and
show how polynomial interpolation can double as a high-rate randomness
extractor in our context of threshold sharing with certiﬁed deletion.
1
Introduction
Secret sharing [9,17,23] is a foundational cryptographic primitive that allows a
dealer to distribute a secret s among n parties so that only certain “authorized”
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2024
L. Reyzin and D. Stebila (Eds.): CRYPTO 2024, LNCS 14926, pp. 184–214, 2024.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-68394-7_7

Secret Sharing with Certiﬁed Deletion
185
subsets of the parties may recover the secret. A particularly common scenario
is (k, n) threshold secret sharing, where the dealer splits s into n shares such
that any k of the shares can be combined to recover the secret s, but any k −1
or fewer shares leak no information about s. However, one can also consider a
much more versatile setting, in which the authorized subsets of n are deﬁned
by any monotone access structure S.1 Secret sharing schemes are ubiquitous
in cryptography, and we refer the reader to Beimel’s survey [7] for a broader
discussio, including several applications.
A particularly appealing aspect of secret sharing that sets it apart from most
other cryptographic primitives is that it doesn’t require computational hard-
ness assumptions. That is, one can construct secret sharing schemes for arbi-
trary monotone access structures secure against any computationally unbounded
adversary (e.g. [8,17,19]).
However, the security of these schemes still rests on a stringent assumption:
over the course of the (potentially unbounded) adversary’s operation, it only ever
sees an unauthorized set of shares. This may be unacceptable for users sharing
particularly sensitive information. Even if an adversary initially may only access
a limited number of shares, over time they may be able to corrupt more and more
parties, or perhaps more and more shares become compromised independently
and are leaked into the public domain. A user who becomes paranoid about this
possibility generally has no recourse, and, worse yet, cannot even detect if an
adversary has obtained access to enough shares to reconstruct their secret.
In this work, we ask whether it is possible to strengthen the standard notion
of secret sharing security, and relax the assumption that the adversary only ever
corrupts an unauthorized set of parties. In particular:
Is it possible to achieve meaningful secret sharing security against
adversaries that may eventually corrupt authorized sets of parties?
Now, if the shares consist of only classical data, then there is no hope of
answering the above question in the aﬃrmative. Indeed, once an adversary
obtains any share, they can make a copy and store it away. Once they’ve col-
lected and stored an authorized set, they’ll be able to recover the secret due to
the correctness of the secret sharing scheme.
Certiﬁed Deletion. On the other hand, the uncertainty principle of quantum
mechanics oﬀers some hope: if shares are encoded into quantum states, then the
useful share information may be erased by applying certain destructive measure-
ments. Thus, a user that is worried about an adversary eventually corrupting an
authorized set of shares may request and verify that this “deletion” operation is
performed on some set of their shares. Now, even if the adversary learns enough
shares in the future to constitute an authorized set, the already-deleted shares
will remain useless, and there is hope that the user’s secret remains private.
1 A set S of subsets of [n] is monotone if for any subset S ∈S, it holds that S′ ∈S for
all supersets S′ ⊃S.

186
J. Bartusek and J. Raizes
Indeed, the basic idea of leveraging the uncertainty principle to perform “cer-
tiﬁed deletion” of private information was ﬁrst put forth by Broadbent and Islam
[11] in the context of one-time-pad encryption, and has since been applied in
several contexts throughout cryptography, e.g. [3–5,14–16,20]. In fact, Bartusek
and Khurana [4] previously constructed a very limited ﬂavor of secret sharing
with certiﬁed deletion, namely, 2-out-of-2 secret sharing where only one of the
two shares admits the possibility the deletion. Their scheme allows a user to
split a secret s into a quantum share |sh1⟩and a classical share sh2. If an adver-
sary ﬁrst obtains and deletes |sh1⟩, then obtains sh2, it will still be unable to
reconstruct the secret s. One can also view the original one-time-pad encryption
with certiﬁed deletion scheme of [11] as exactly this ﬂavor of 2-out-of-2 secret
sharing with certiﬁed deletion, where the quantum share is the ciphertext and
the classical share is the secret key. In this work, we show that it is possible to
introduce certiﬁed deletion guarantees into more versatile and general ﬂavors of
secret sharing, addressing several deﬁnitional and technical issues along the way.
1.1
Our Results
We formulate two powerful but incomparable notions of certiﬁed deletion secu-
rity for general-purpose secret sharing schemes, and show how to construct a
scheme satisfying each deﬁnition. One of our key technical tools is a high-rate
seedless extractor from certain quantum sources of entropy that signiﬁcantly
generalizes and improves upon the “XOR extractor” of [1].
No-signaling Security. First, we address the shortcomings of [4]’s security def-
inition for 2-out-of-2 secret sharing sketched above, and formulate a natural
extension that (i) applies to schemes for any monotone access structure, and (ii)
allows for the possibility that any of the shares may be deleted.
In particular, we model a scenario involving multiple non-communicating
adversaries that each individually have access to some unauthorized set of shares.
These adversaries may even share entanglement, but may not exchange messages.
Now, the user may request that some of its shares are deleted. If the adversaries
jointly delete enough shares so that the remaining undeleted shares form an
unauthorized set, then we combine the views of all the adversaries together, and
require that the user’s secret remains private even given this joint view. That
is, even if a single adversarial entity is eventually able to corrupt up to all of
the parties, they will still not be able to recover the secret if enough shares have
previously been deleted.2
We refer to this security notion for secret sharing schemes as no-signaling
security (see Sect. 4 for a precise deﬁnition), emphasizing the fact that shares
must be deleted by adversaries that cannot yet pool information about an autho-
rized set of shares, as this would trivially allow for reconstruction of the secret.
2 We remark that this deﬁnition also captures adversaries that don’t end up corrupting
all the shares, by imagining that there is a separate component of the adversary that
honestly deletes the uncorrupted shares.

Secret Sharing with Certiﬁed Deletion
187
Then, in Sect. 5 we show how to combine [4]’s simple 2-out-of-2 secret sharing
scheme with any standard secret sharing scheme for monotone access structure S
(e.g. [8,17,19]) in order to obtain a secret sharing scheme for S with no-signaling
security.
Theorem 1 (Informal). There exists a secret sharing scheme with no-
signaling certiﬁed deletion security for any monotone access structure S.
Adaptive Security. Next, we consider a particularly cunning but natural class
of adversaries that exhibit the following behavior. Suppose that initially the
adversary only obtains access to some unauthorized set of shares. At some point,
the user becomes paranoid and requests that some subset of these shares are
deleted. The adversary obliges but then continues to corrupt new parties or
locate other leaked shares. The adversary may continue to delete some of these
shares to appease the user, while continuing to work behind the scenes to mount
a long-term attack on the system. However, as long as the set of corrupted parties
minus the set of certiﬁably deleted shares continues to be unauthorized, we can
hope that the user’s secret remains private from such an adversary.
Unfortunately, the notion of no-signaling security does not capture the behav-
ior of such an adaptive adversary. That is, no-signaling security only models
adversaries that delete once, and then receive some extra information after this
single round of deletion. Thus, we formalize adaptive security as an alternative
and quite strong notion of certiﬁed deletion security for secret sharing schemes
(see Sect. 4 for a precise deﬁnition).
Protecting against such arbitrarily adaptive adversaries turns out to be a
signiﬁcant challenge. The main technical component of our work realizes a secret
sharing scheme with adaptive certiﬁed deletion security for the speciﬁc case of
threshold access structures (Sect. 6).
Theorem 2 (Informal). There exists a threshold secret sharing scheme with
adaptive certiﬁed deletion security.
High-rate Seedless Extractors from Quantum Sources of Entropy. One of our
technical building blocks is an improved method for seedless extraction from
certain quantum sources of entropy. Roughly, the source of entropy comes from
performing a standard basis measurement on a register that is in superposition
over a limited number of Fourier basis states.
While seedless extraction from such sources of entropy [1] has been a cru-
cial component in previous realizations of cryptographic primitives with certiﬁed
deletion [4],3 the technique had been limited to (i) extracting from qubit regis-
ters (i.e. where data is natively represented as superpositions of bitstrings) and
(ii) extracting only a single bit of entropy. Here, we generalize these techniques
to extract from qudit registers (i.e. where data is natively represented as super-
positions of vectors over ﬁnite ﬁelds), and produce several ﬁeld elements worth of
entropy, vastly improving the rate of extraction. Beyond being interesting in its
3 See discussion therein why seedless as opposed to seeded extraction is crucial.

188
J. Bartusek and J. Raizes
own right, it turns out that these improvements are crucial for showing security
our construction of threshold sharing with adaptive certiﬁed deletion. Moreover,
we show how these high-rate extraction techniques can be applied to extension
ﬁelds, meaning that we can represent our quantum shares as string of qubits (as
opposed to qudits), removing the need for entanglement in our construction. We
refer the reader to Sect. 2.3 and Sect. 3 for more details.
2
Technical Overview
Intuitively, certiﬁed deletion for secret sharing aims to keep the secret private
from an adversary if the total set of undeleted shares they have access to is
unauthorized. One could formalize this by considering an adversary who ini-
tially receives an unauthorized set of shares and then deletes some of them.
If the undeleted shares are still unauthorized when combined with the shares
that the adversary did not receive, then we allow the adversary to access these
remaining shares. This closely matches the deﬁnition of encryption with certiﬁed
deletion, where the adversary initially receives and deletes a ciphertext Enc(k, m)
encrypting message m using key k, and then later receives the key k.
However, this deﬁnition is not meaningful for all access structures. For exam-
ple, in a k out of n access structure where k < n/2, the shares that the adversary
does not start with already form an authorized set on their own, so it never makes
sense to allow the adversary to access all of these shares at once. In this section,
we give an overview of two diﬀerent ways to address this deﬁnitional deﬁciency:
no-signaling certiﬁed deletion and adaptive certiﬁed deletion.
2.1
No-Signaling Certiﬁed Deletion
In no-signaling certiﬁed deletion, we address this problem by allowing the adver-
sary to delete from multiple sets of shares P1, . . . , Pℓ. However, if P1 ∪· · · ∪Pℓ
contains all shares, then the adversary as a whole gets to see every share before
it generates any deletion certiﬁcates. Thus, to prevent trivial attacks, we do not
allow the adversary to communicate across sets. However, the diﬀerent parts
of the adversary may still share entanglement. This modiﬁcation yields the no-
signaling certiﬁed deletion game SS-NSCDS(s) for secret s and access structure
S over n parties, which we describe here.
1. The challenger secret-splits s into n shares with access structure S.
2. Each adversary Advi is initialized with one register of a shared state |ψ⟩,
receives the shares in a set Pi, and produces some set of certiﬁcates
{certj}j∈Pi. If Advi does not wish to delete share j, then it may set certj = ⊥.
3. If the total set of shares that have not been deleted is unauthorized, then
output the joint view of the adversaries. Otherwise, output ⊥.
No-signaling certiﬁed deletion for secret sharing requires that for every secret pair
(s0, s1) and every partition P = (P1, . . . , Pℓ) of [n], the outputs of SS-NSCDS(s0)
and SS-NSCDS(s1) have negligible trace distance.

Secret Sharing with Certiﬁed Deletion
189
Tool: 2-of-2 Secret Sharing with Certiﬁed Deletion [4]. Recently, Bartusek and
Khurana constructed a variety of primitives with certiﬁed deletion. One of these
primitives is a secret sharing scheme which splits a secret s into a quantum share
|sh1⟩and a classical share sh2, along with a veriﬁcation key vk that can be used
to test the validity of deletion certiﬁcates. Given either one of the shares, the
secret is hidden. Furthermore, if an adversary given |sh1⟩performs a destructive
measurement that yields a valid deletion certiﬁcate, then they will never be able
to recover s, even if they later obtain sh2. Note that in this scheme, only one of
the two shares can be deleted.
A Black-Box Compiler. We show how to compile Bartusek and Khurana’s 2-of-2
certiﬁed deletion scheme together with any classical secret sharing scheme into a
secret sharing scheme with no-signaling certiﬁed deletion. Notably, the compiled
scheme inherits the same access structure as the classical secret sharing scheme.
Thus, one can construct secret sharing with no-signaling certiﬁed deletion for
general access structures by using any classical secret sharing scheme for general
access structures, e.g. [2,17].
As a starting point, let us ﬁrst construct a scheme where only one of the
shares can be deleted.
1. Secret split the secret s into a quantum share |qsh⟩and a classical share
csh using the 2-of-2 secret sharing scheme with certiﬁed deletion. This also
produces a veriﬁcation key vk.
2. Split the 2-of-2 classical share csh into classical shares csh1, . . . , cshn using
the classical secret sharing scheme for S.
3. The veriﬁcation key is vk and the i’th share is cshi. The deletable quantum
share is |qsh⟩.
Given the quantum share and any authorized set of classical shares, s can be
reconstructed by ﬁrst recovering csh from the authorized set. On the other hand,
any adversary which attempts to delete |qsh⟩with only access to an unauthorized
set of classical shares has no information about the 2-of-2 classical share csh.
Thus if they produce a valid deletion certiﬁcate, they will have no information
about s even after obtaining the rest of the classical shares, which only reveals
csh.
Who Deletes? To ﬁnish the compiler, we need to enable certiﬁed deletion of any
share. This can be achieved by adding a step at the beginning of the compiler
to create n classical shares sh1, . . . , shn of s with the same access structure S.
Then, the splitter can enable certiﬁed deletion for each share shi by using the
prior compiler to produce a set of classical shares cshi,1, . . . , cshi,n, a deletable
quantum share |qshi⟩, and a veriﬁcation key vki. The i’th share contains the
deletable state |qshi⟩, as well as {cshj,i}j∈[n].
Note that anyone holding share i is able to delete shi by deleting |qshi⟩, as
discussed previously. If suﬃciently many shares are deleted, so that the only
remaining shi form an unauthorized set, then no adversary can learn anything
about the secret even after obtaining all of the remaining shares and residual
states.

190
J. Bartusek and J. Raizes
Proof of Security: Guessing Deletions. Although the intuition is straightforward,
there is a nuance in the proof of security. When proving security, we wish to
replace the deleted 2-of-2 secrets shi with empty secrets ⊥. If we could do so,
then security immediately reduces to the security of the classical S-scheme, since
only an unauthorized set of shi remains. However, it is diﬃcult to determine
which of these 2-of-2 secrets shi to replace with ⊥when preparing the shares.
Since non-local operations commute, we could consider generating the shares
for each adversary Advi one at a time. For example, supposing Adv1 operates
on the set of shares P1 ⊂[n], the experiment could initialize Adv1 with uni-
formly random shares, and then for each i ∈P1, reverse-sample the shares
{cshi,j}j∈[n]\P1 for the rest of the adversaries to match either shi or ⊥, depending
on whether or not Adv1 deleted share i.
Unfortunately, we cannot continue this strategy for all of the adversaries. It
may be the case that the union of Adv1 and Adv2’s shares P1 ∪P2 contains an
authorized set. Thus, when initializing Adv2, the challenger must already know
whether, for each i ∈P2, the i’th share of s should be set to shi or ⊥(since
this will be determined by {cshi,j}j∈P1∪P2). This view is constructed before the
adversary decides whether or not to delete share i, so the only way for the
challenger to do this is to guess whether the adversary will delete share i or not.
Now, guessing which shares the entire set of adversaries will delete incurs
a multiplicative exponential (in n) loss in security. Fortunately, Bartusek and
Khurana’s 2-of-2 scheme actually satisﬁes an inverse exponential trace distance
between the adversary’s view of any two secrets, after deletion. Thus, by setting
the parameters carefully, we can tolerate this exponential loss from guessing, and
show that our scheme for general access structures satisﬁes negligible security.
2.2
Adaptive Certiﬁed Deletion
Intuitively, any deﬁnition of certiﬁed deletion should allow the adversary to even-
tually receive an authorized set of shares, as long as they have previously deleted
enough shares so that their total set of undeleted shares remains unauthorized.
In no-signaling certiﬁed deletion, we allowed multiple non-communicating adver-
saries to delete from diﬀerent unauthorized sets of shares. That is, when Advi
generates its set of certiﬁcates, it only has access to a single unauthorized set Pi.
However, one could also imagine a more demanding setting where, after deleting
some shares, the adversary can adaptively corrupt new shares, as long as their
total set of undeleted shares remains unauthorized. Then, they can continue
deleting shares and corrupting new shares as long as this invariant holds. This
setting arises naturally when we consider an adversary which covertly compro-
mises shares over a long period of time, while occasionally deleting shares to
avoid revealing the extent of the inﬁltration. We call this notion adaptive cer-
tiﬁed deletion. It is deﬁned using the following adaptive certiﬁed deletion game
SS-ACDS(s).
1. The challenger splits the secret s into n shares with access structure S. The
adversary starts with an empty corruption set C and an empty deletion set
D.

Secret Sharing with Certiﬁed Deletion
191
2. For as many rounds as the adversary likes, it gets to see the shares in C and
choose whether to corrupt or delete a new share.
Corrupt a new share. The adversary corrupts a new share i by adding i
to C. If C\D is authorized, the experiment immediately outputs ⊥.
Delete a share. The adversary outputs a certiﬁcate cert for a share i. If cert
is valid, add i to D. Otherwise, the experiment immediately outputs ⊥.
3. When the adversary is done, the experiment outputs its view.
Adaptive certiﬁed deletion for secret sharing requires that for every secret
pair (s0, s1), the outputs of SS-ACDS(s0) and SS-ACDS(s1) have negligible trace
distance. In this work, we focus on the (k, n) threshold access structure, where
any set of size ≥k is authorized.
Incomparable Deﬁnitions. We have already seen that no-signaling certiﬁed dele-
tion does not imply adaptive certiﬁed deletion. It is also the case that adaptive
certiﬁed deletion does not imply no-signaling certiﬁed deletion. Consider a two-
part no-signaling adversary Adv1 and Adv2 with views P1 and P2. To change
(Adv1, Adv2) to an adaptive adversary, one would need to come up with a trans-
formation that deletes the same shares as (Adv1, Adv2), in the same way. How-
ever, Adv1 might not even decide which shares to delete until after they have
seen every share in P1. So, the new adaptive adversary would have to corrupt
all of P1 before it can delete a single share that Adv1 would. Similarly, it would
also have to corrupt all of P2 before it knows which shares Adv2 would delete.
However, if P1 ∪P2 is authorized, then the experiment would abort before the
new adaptive adversary gets the chance to delete shares for both Adv1 and Adv2.
An Attack on the No-Signaling Construction.
Unfortunately, the previous
construction actually does not in general satisfy adaptive certiﬁed deletion
security. Indeed, observe that the classical parts of each share can never be
deleted. Because of this, an adversary could, for any i, obtain k classical shares
cshi,1, . . . , cshi,k that reveal cshi, simply by corrupting and immediately deleting
the ﬁrst k shares one-by-one. Afterwards, the adversary will always have both
the classical share cshi and the quantum share |qshi⟩when it corrupts a new
share i, so it can recover the underlying classical share shi. Now it can “delete”
the i’th share while keeping shi in its memory. Eventually, it can collect enough
shi in order to obtain the secret s.
The core problem with the no-signaling construction is the fact that it
encodes the 2-of-2 classical shares csh in a form which can never be deleted.
If we were to take a closer look at Bartusek and Khurana’s 2-of-2 scheme, we
would observe that csh contains a mapping θ of which parts of |qsh⟩encode the
secret (the “data indices”) and which parts contain only dummy information
used to verify certiﬁcates (the “check indices”). Without θ, there is no way to
decode the secret. Unfortunately, in order to encode θ in a deletable form, we
seem to be back where we started - we need secret sharing with adaptive certiﬁed
deletion!

192
J. Bartusek and J. Raizes
A New Construction. To avoid this pitfall, we take a new approach that allows
the parties to reconstruct without knowledge of the check indices. This removes
the need to encode θ altogether. To achieve this, we begin with Shamir’s secret
sharing [23], in which the shares are evaluation points of a degree k−1 polynomial
f where f(0) = s. This polynomial is over some ﬁnite ﬁeld K with at least n + 1
elements. A useful property of Shamir’s secret sharing is that it has good error-
correcting properties - in fact, it also forms a Reed-Solomon code, which has the
maximum possible error correction [21].
To split a secret s, we start by constructing a polynomial f where f(0) = s.
Each share contains some number of evaluations of f encoded in the computa-
tional basis. These evaluations are mixed with a small number of random Fourier
basis states that will aid in verifying deletion certiﬁcates. The positions of these
checks, along with the value encoded, make up the veriﬁcation key. An example
share and key are illustrated here.
sh = |f(1)⟩⊗|f(2)⟩⊗QFT |r1⟩⊗|f(4)⟩⊗QFT |r2⟩⊗. . .
vk =
∗
∗
r1
∗
r2
. . .
When reconstructing the secret, these checks are essentially random errors in the
polynomial evaluation. By carefully tuning the degree of the polynomial together
with the number of evaluations and checks in each share, we can ensure that any
k shares contain enough evaluation points to correct the errors from the check
positions, but that any k −1 shares do not contain enough evaluation points to
determine the polynomial. This results in f being determined by slightly more
than k −1 shares worth of evaluations. Additionally, we slightly increase the
degree of the polynomial to account for the limited amount of information that
an adversary can retain after deletion. See Sect. 6 for more details.
Share deletion and certiﬁcate veriﬁcation follow the established formula. To
delete a share, measure it in the Fourier basis and output the result as the
certiﬁcate. To verify the certiﬁcate, check that it matches the veriﬁcation key at
the check positions.
Proving Adaptive Certiﬁed Deletion. Intuitively, we want to show that after
the adversary deletes a share, the next share it corrupts gives it no additional
information, no matter how many shares the adversary has seen so far. To for-
malize this, we will show that the adversary cannot distinguish between the real
SS-ACD(k,n)(s) experiment and an experiment in which each share is generated
uniformly at random and independently of the others. Since the ﬁrst k−1 shares
to be corrupted do not yet uniquely determine the polynomial f, they already
satisfy this. Thus, we can restrict our attention to modifying the last n −k + 1
shares to be corrupted.
It will be useful to name the shares in the order they are corrupted or deleted.
The a’th share to be corrupted is ca, and the b’th share to be deleted is share
db. In the (k, n) threshold case, if ck−1+b is corrupted before db is deleted, then
C\D has size k and is authorized, so the experiment will abort.

Secret Sharing with Certiﬁed Deletion
193
Techniques from BK23. We begin by recalling the techniques introduced in [4] to
analyze 2-of-2 secret sharing with certiﬁed deletion, along with the construction.
These techniques will form the starting point of our proof. To share a single-bit
secret s ∈{0, 1}, sample random x, θ ←{0, 1}λ and output
sh1 = Hθ |x⟩,
sh2 =

θ, s ⊕

i:θi=0
xi

,
vk = (x, θ),
where Hθ denotes applying the Hadamard gate H to the i’th register for each
i : θi = 1. Bartusek and Khurana showed that if an adversary given sh1 produces
a certiﬁcate cert such that certi = xi for every check position i : θi = 1, then
they cannot distinguish whether s = 0 or s = 1 even if they later receive sh2.
Their approach has three main steps.
1. First, they delay the dependence of the experiment on s by initializing sh1 to
be the register X in 
x |x⟩X ⊗|x⟩Y. Later, the challenger can obtain x by
measuring register Y, and use it to derive s.
2. Second, they argue that if the adversary produces a valid deletion certiﬁcate,
then sh1 has been “almost entirely deleted”, in the sense that the challenger’s
copy satisﬁes a checkable predicate with high probability. Intuitively, this
predicate shows that the data positions (θi = 0) of the challenger’s copy have
high joint entropy when measured in the computational basis. To show that
the predicate holds, they use the fact that the adversary does not have sh2
in their view, so sh1 looks uniformly random. This allows a cut-and-choose
argument where the locations of the check indices are determined after the
adversary outputs its deletion certiﬁcate.
3. Finally, they show that the challenger derives a bit s that is uniformly random
and independent of the adversary’s view. This utilizes a result from [1] which
shows that XOR is a good seedless extractor for entropy sources that satisfy
the aforementioned predicate.
Adapting to Secret Sharing. As a starting point, let us try to adapt these tech-
niques to undetectably change shares to uniformly random. For concreteness,
consider the task of switching a share ck−1+b to uniformly random. Although
we have not yet outlined the general proof structure, we will eventually need to
perform this task. We will use this starting point to gain insights that will help
guide the eventual proof structure.
1. The ﬁrst step is to delay the synthesis of the secret information until after the
adversary outputs a deletion certiﬁcate. In our case, we will delay creating
share ck−1+b until after the adversary produces a valid certiﬁcate for share
db.
This can be achieved by sampling the ﬁrst k −1 corrupted shares to be uni-
formly random, then using polynomial interpolation to prepare the rest of the
shares. More concretely, consider the ﬁrst corrupted k −1 shares c1, . . . , ck−1.
The challenger will prepare each of these shares ca using two registers Cca

194
J. Bartusek and J. Raizes
and Sca, then send the share to the adversary in register Sca. To prepare
the j’th position of ca, the experiment challenger prepares either a uniform
superposition 
x∈K |x⟩Cca,j or 
x∈K QFT |x⟩Cca,j, depending on whether j is
an evaluation position or a check position. If j is an evaluation position for
share ca, the experiment challenger copies Cca,j to Sca,j in the computational
basis, yielding
∝

x∈K
|x⟩Sca,j ⊗|x⟩Cca,j ,
and otherwise it copies Cca,j to Sca,j in the Fourier basis, yielding
∝

x∈K
QFT |x⟩Sca,j ⊗QFT |x⟩Cca,j .
Note that the adversary cannot determine which positions are evaluation posi-
tions and which are check positions, since each Sca,j register looks maximally
mixed. Also observe that Cca contains a copy of share ca, and the evaluation
positions in the initial k −1 Cca registers determine the polynomial f. Then,
when the adversary requests to corrupt a later share, the challenger computes
the evaluation points for that share by performing a polynomial interpolation
using its copies of the prior shares. For reasons that will become apparent
shortly, we require that share db is included when interpolating ck−1+b. The
other points may be arbitrary.
The above procedure is actually slightly simpliﬁed; since the degree of f is
slightly larger than the number of evaluation positions in k−1 shares, the ﬁrst
k −1 shares do not quite determine f. To remedy this, we will also initialize
a small portion of every Si to be uniformly random, before any interpolation
takes place.
2. Next, we will need to show that Cdb, which contains the challenger’s copy of
share db, satisﬁes the deletion predicate if certdb passes veriﬁcation. This is
not hard to show if db was generated uniformly at random, but it is not clear
what happens if the adversary has some information about where the check
positions are in db before deleting it. The ﬁrst k −1 shares are uniformly
random in the original experiment, so this is not a problem for any share
which is deleted before ck is corrupted. However, later shares depend on earlier
shares, potentially leaking information about the check positions. This will
be our ﬁrst barrier to overcome.
3. Finally, we will need to show that interpolating ck−1+b using Cdb produces a
uniformly random value whenever Cdb satisﬁes the deletion predicate. In other
words, polynomial interpolation should double as a good randomness
extractor from deleted shares. Fortunately, polynomial interpolation is a
matrix multiplication, and we have intuition from the classical setting that
linear operations are good randomness extractors. Since a small amount of
every share is uniformly random “for free”, the extractor needs to produce
only slightly less than a full share’s worth of evaluations to produce ck−1+b.
This is our second technical contribution, which we will revisit in Sect. 2.3.

Secret Sharing with Certiﬁed Deletion
195
In step two, we seem to need the evaluation points in db to look like the
check positions when db is deleted, i.e. they should be uniformly random and
independent of the rest of the adversary’s view. A natural approach to ensure
this is to modify the shares to uniformly random round-by-round over a series
of hybrid experiments. In hybrid i, the ﬁrst k −1 + i shares to be corrupted are
uniformly random. Since di+1 must be deleted before ck+i is corrupted (or else
the experiment aborts), di+1 must have been one of the uniformly random shares.
Now we can apply the cut-and-choose argument to show that Cdi satisﬁes the
deletion predicate, thereby satisfying the extractor requirements to change ck+i
to be uniformly random and reach hybrid i+1. The ﬁrst k−1 shares are already
uniformly random, which gives us an opening to begin making modiﬁcations in
round k.
Unfortunately, the strategy of modifying the shares one-by-one to be uni-
formly random has a major ﬂaw. In particular, the challenger needs to produce
additional polynomial evaluations whenever the adversary wishes to corrupt
another share, which it does via interpolation. Recall that in order to claim
that ck−1+i is indistinguishable from random, we apply an extractor which uses
register Cdi as its source of entropy. But in order to invoke the security of the
extractor, it seems that we cannot allow the challenger to re-use Cdi when inter-
polating later points, as this might leak additional information about the source
to the adversary.
To get around this issue, we might require that the challenger never uses Cdi
again to interpolate later points. However, the randomness extractor outputs
less randomness than the size of a share. Intuitively, this occurs because the
adversary can avoid fully deleting the source share di by guessing the location of
a very small number of check positions.4 Imperfect deletion limits the entropy of
the source, which in turn limits the size of the extractor output. Now, since the
challenger started with exactly enough evaluations to uniquely determine f, if we
take away the points in Cdi then there are no longer enough evaluation points
remaining to create the rest of the shares, even given the newly interpolated
points.
Predicates First, Replacement Later. Intuitively, the problem outlined above
arises from the possibility that the adversary receives additional information
about earlier shares from the later ones, since they are all correlated through
the deﬁnition of the polynomial f. Our ﬁrst idea to overcome this issue is to prove
that the predicate holds for all rounds before switching any shares to uniformly
random. In particular, we will consider a sequence of hybrid experiments where
in the i’th hybrid, the challenger performs the predicate measurement on Cdi
4 One may wonder whether it is possible to instead use coset states for the shares,
which provide guarantees of full deletion [3]. Unfortunately, coset states induce errors
which are the sum of a small number of uniformly random vectors. It is not clear
how to correct these errors to reconstruct the secret without prior knowledge of the
underlying subspace. However, encoding the subspace brings us back to the original
problem of secret sharing with adaptive certiﬁed deletion.

196
J. Bartusek and J. Raizes
after receiving and verifying the corresponding certiﬁcate. If the measurement
rejects, the experiment immediately aborts and outputs ⊥.
If we can undetectably reach the last hybrid experiment, then it is possi-
ble to undetectably replace every share with uniform randomness by working
backwards. In the last hybrid experiment, either the predicate holds on the chal-
lenger’s copy Cdn−k+1 of share dn−k+1 or the experiment aborts. In either case,
the last share cn to be corrupted can be undetectably replaced with uniform
randomness. Since no further shares are interpolated, we no longer run into the
issue of re-using the randomness source Cdn−k+1, allowing the challenger to safely
complete the experiment. Then, once cn is uniformly random, the challenger
no longer needs to interpolate shares after cn−1, so cn−1 can also be replaced
with uniform randomness. This argument can be continued until all shares are
replaced.
To undetectably transition from hybrid i to hybrid i + 1, we must show
that the predicate measurement returns success with high probability on Cdi+1.
This is not hard to show for shares which are deleted before the k’th share is
corrupted, because the deleted shares must be one of the shares which were
generated uniformly at random. However, it is not clear how to show for shares
which are deleted after the k’th share is corrupted, since this seems to require
replacing ck with uniform randomness, which brings us back to our previous
problem.
Chaining Deletions via Truncated Experiments. Our second insight is the obser-
vation that the result of a measurement made when di is deleted is independent
of later operations. Thus, when arguing about the probability that the predicate
measurement accepts on Cdi, it is suﬃcient to argue about the truncated exper-
iment that ends immediately after the predicate measurement on Cdi. Crucially,
the adversary cannot corrupt share ck+i in the truncated experiment without
causing the experiment to abort due to |C\D| ≥k. Instead, ck−1+i is the last
share that can be corrupted. This prevents the catastrophic re-use of Cdi after
share ck−1+i is constructed.
Let us assume that we have already shown that the deletion predicate mea-
surement accepts on Cdi with high probability; for example, this clearly holds
for d1, which must be corrupted before ck is corrupted. How likely it is to accept
on Cdi+1? Say the deletion predicate measurement accepts on Cdi. Then we can
invoke the extractor to undetectably replace share ck−1+i with uniform random-
ness in the truncated game, since no further shares are corrupted before the game
ends. We can use similar logic to replace each of the ﬁrst k −1 + i shares to be
corrupted in the truncated game. At this point, the adversary has no choice but
to delete a uniformly random share as di+1, so we can apply a cut-and-choose
argument to show that the predicate holds with high probability on Cdi+1 This
argument can be repeated inductively to show that the predicate holds in each
of the polynomially many rounds.
Recap of the First Challenge. In summary, the ﬁrst challenge to address in
proving adaptive certiﬁed deletion is the possibility of later shares leaking

Secret Sharing with Certiﬁed Deletion
197
information about prior shares through the re-use of Cdb in interpolation. This
prevents directly replacing each share with uniform randomness. To sidestep this
issue, we ﬁrst argue that every Cdb is a good source of entropy using a series of
games which end after db is deleted. Then even if Cdb is used to interpolate both
share ck−1+b and ck+b, we can rely on the entropy from Cdb+1 to mask its re-usage
when interpolating ck+b.
2.3
High Rate Seedless Extractors from Quantum Sources
of Entropy
The ﬁnal task to ﬁnish the proof of adaptive certiﬁed deletion security in the
previous section is to show that polynomial interpolation is a good random-
ness extractor for entropy sources formed by deleted shares. Although polyno-
mial interpolation arises quite naturally in our construction, there are additional
technical reasons why it would be diﬃcult to design a construction for adaptive
certiﬁed deletion using existing extractors.
If we were to design a scheme using a seeded extractor, as done in [11], then
every deletion would need to be independent of the seed to avoid the entropy
source depending on the seed. However, as we saw with the no-signaling con-
struction, safely encoding the seed seems to already require secret sharing with
adaptive certiﬁed deletion. [4] makes use of the seedless XOR extractor developed
by [1] to avoid a similar problem. Unfortunately, the XOR extractor produces
only a single bit from a relatively large input. In the case of threshold secret
sharing, the extractor must use the randomness produced by deleting a single
share to extract an output which is only slightly smaller than a full share.
To address this need, we give a new family of seedless randomness extractors
for quantum entropy sources with high rate. These constructions have connec-
tions to linear error-correcting codes and may be of independent interest.
A Family of Extractors. The input of the extractor is a vector of M elements of a
ﬁnite ﬁeld F, and the output is a vector of m elements of F. The source consists of
a register X which may be arbitrarily entangled with a side-information register
A. If the register X is in superposition over Fourier basis vectors with Hamming
weight ≤(M −m)/2 in F, then we can argue that the output Extract(X) is
uniformly random, even given A.5
The extractor family consists of matrices R ∈Fm×M such that every set of
m columns of R are linearly independent. In other words, R is a parity check
matrix for a linear error-correcting code with distance at least m. An extractor
R is applied by coherently multiplying R with the source register X in the
computational basis and writing the result to the output register.
Application to Polynomial Interpolation. This family generalizes both the XOR
extractor and polynomial interpolation. The XOR extractor can be represented
as the all-ones matrix with one row. Each column is non-zero, so the extractor
5 The Hamming weight over a (potentially non-binary) ﬁnite ﬁeld is being the number
of nonzero entries in the vector.

198
J. Bartusek and J. Raizes
can produce a one-bit output. In the case of polynomial interpolation, we can
write the linear interpolation operator for a polynomial f as a matrix R with
deg(f) + 1 columns and a number of rows equal to the number of points being
interpolated. R is a sub-matrix of a parity check matrix for a Reed-Solomon
code, so it falls into the new extractor family. In fact, our result shows that any
subset of columns in a polynomial interpolation matrix forms a good randomness
extractor for an appropriate randomness source. When interpolating a share
ck−1+b, we can write the interpolation matrix as R = [R1|R2], where R2 is
applied to db and R1 is applied to the other points x on the polynomial. Then
the new share is ck−1+b = R1x + R2db. If db has satisﬁes the deletion predicate,
then our extractor result shows that R2db is uniformly random. Thus, the newly
interpolated share cb is also uniformly random.
Removing Entanglement. A downside of using polynomials for secret sharing
is that each evaluation point exists in ﬁeld F whose size scales with the total
number of distinct points that must be deﬁned on the polynomial. For example,
F might be Zp for some prime p > nt, where t is the number of evaluations per
share. Using the approach outlined so far, each check position must be encoded
in the Fourier basis over the same ﬁeld K. However, a logical Zp-qudit requires
⌈log2(nt + 1)⌉qubits, which must all be entangled to produce a Fourier basis
element of Zp.
We show how to remove the entanglement of the construction to only use
single-qubit states, either in the Hadamard basis or in the computational basis.
We modify the construction by setting the ﬁeld F to be the binary extension ﬁeld
with 2⌈log2(nt+1)⌉elements, so that each check position consists of ⌈log2(nt + 1)⌉
qubits. Then, we individually set each of these qubits to be a random Hadamard
basis element. The other parts of the construction remain the same. Note that
computational basis vectors over F can be encoded as a tuple of computational
basis qubits.
Proving the security of this modiﬁcation requires an expansion of the extrac-
tor theorem to allow general ﬁnite ﬁelds F, which may have pk elements for some
prime p and k ≥1. A Fourier basis element for such a ﬁeld is obtained by apply-
ing the quantum Fourier transform over the additive group of F, which is Zk
p. In
particular, a Fourier basis element of F consists of k Fourier basis elements of
Zp. In the case where p = 2, these are single-qubit Hadamard basis elements.
We emphasize that the only change is to modify how Fourier basis elements
are deﬁned by allowing general ﬁnite ﬁelds; both the extractor family and the
Hamming weight requirement remain the same (i.e. they are still deﬁned with
respect to F, not Zp). To gain intuition about the usefulness of this statement, let
us consider its application in our secret-sharing construction. Ideally, an honest
deleter would measure each qubit of its share in the Hadamard basis. However,
since the dealer can only verify check positions, which each consist of ⌈log2(nt +
1)⌉qubits, we can only prove a bound on the Hamming weight of the deleted
state over ⌈log2(nt+1)⌉-sized chunks, which corresponds to F. This matches the
entropy source requirements of the theorem. On the other hand, the polynomial
that the secret is encoded in is also over F, so polynomial interpolation must
take place over F. This matches the extractor family.

Secret Sharing with Certiﬁed Deletion
199
2.4
Open Problems
Although our results signiﬁcantly strengthen secret sharing to resist new classes
of attacks, we have only scratched the surface of an area with many fascinating
open problems. We mention a few of them here.
– Adaptive Certiﬁed Deletion for General Access Structures. Against
adaptive attacks, we construct a secret sharing scheme for the special case of
threshold access structures. Is it possible to construct one for general access
structures?
– Stronger Deﬁnitions. We prove the security of our schemes against either
“distributed” attacks (i.e. no-signaling security) or adaptive attacks. Can
we (i) formulate natural security deﬁnitions that capture both types of
attacks, and (ii) prove the security of secret sharing schemes under such all-
encompassing deﬁnitions?
– Public Veriﬁcation. The question of publicly veriﬁable certiﬁcates for
encryption with certiﬁed deletion has seen signiﬁcant progress recently
[3,6,15,18,20]. However, the techniques used seem to require the use of a
classical secret to decode the plaintext. For secret sharing with certiﬁed dele-
tion, this secret would need to also be encoded in a manner that can be
certiﬁably deleted, as mentioned in Sect. 2.2. Is it possible to construct secret
sharing with publicly veriﬁable certiﬁcates of deletion?
– Other Threshold Primitives. Aside from secret sharing, there are many
other primitives which use thresholds or other access structures. For example,
in threshold signatures, any k members may non-interactively sign messages
under a secret key split between n parties [13]. Is it possible to construct
threshold signatures or other threshold primitives with certiﬁed deletion?
– High Rate Commitments with Certiﬁed Deletion. A commitment
with certiﬁed deletion allows the committed message to be certiﬁably and
information-theoretically deleted [4,16]. However, current approaches either
work in the random oracle model or require Θ(λ) qubits to commit to a sin-
gle bit. Our new high-rate extractor (Theorem 3) provides a promising start
to reduce the commitment overhead. Unfortunately, the proof technique pio-
neered by [4] for the plain model requires guessing the committed message,
which incurs a security loss that is exponential in the size of the message. Is it
possible to overcome this diﬃculty and construct commitments with certiﬁed
deletion that have are not much larger than the committed message?
3
High-Rate Seedless Quantum Extractors
In this section, we study seedless extraction of large amounts of entropy from a
quantum source. The source of entropy comes from applying a quantum Fourier
transform to a state which is “almost” a computational basis state. In particular,
the source register X is in superposition over vectors with low Hamming weight,
and may be arbitrarily entangled with a register A that contains side-information
about the source. Previously, [1] showed that the XOR function perfectly extracts

200
J. Bartusek and J. Raizes
a single bit of entropy in this setting. However, in order to extract multiple bits
of entropy, they resorted to the use of a random oracle. We also remark that the
case of seeded extraction has been well-studied by, e.g. [10,12,22].
We describe a general class of extractors that produces multiple truly random
elements of any ﬁnite ﬁeld F, even conditioned on the side-information register
A. In the case where the ﬁnite ﬁeld has order pk for a prime p, we show that a
large amount of entropy is generated even when the quantum Fourier transform
is applied by interpreting each element x ∈Fpk as a vector x ∈Fk
p and applying
the transform mod p to each index (as opposed to applying the transform mod
pk directly to the ﬁeld element). This feature allows the source to be prepared
using less entanglement in our eventual application to secret sharing.
Notation. The Hamming weight hF(v) of a vector v ∈FM over a ﬁnite ﬁeld F
is its number of non-zero positions. We denote vectors v and matrices R using
bold font. Since we will be working with elements which can be interpreted
as elements of two diﬀerent ﬁelds, we use (·)F to denote that the contents of
the parentheses should be interpreted as elements and operations over F. For
example, (x + y)F denotes addition of x and y inside the ﬁeld F. If x, y ∈Fk,
then (x + y)F denotes vector addition. For an extension ﬁeld K of F, a scalar
x ∈K can also be interpreted as a vector x ∈Fk. In this case, for x, y ∈K,
(x·y)F produces a scalar in F. If an element can be interpreted as either a vector
or a scalar, we bold it depending on the context of the ﬁrst operation applied;
for example, (xy)K or (x · z)F for x ∈K, y ∈Kn, and z ∈Fk.
Theorem 3. Let F be a ﬁnite ﬁeld of order pk. Let X = X1, . . . , XM be a register
containing M F-qudits, and consider any quantum state
|γ⟩A,X =

u∈FM:hF(u)< M−m
2
|ψu⟩A ⊗|u + w⟩X
for some integer m ≤M and some ﬁxed string w ∈FM. Let R ∈Fm×M be a
matrix such that every set of m columns of R are linearly independent.
Let ρA,Y be the mixed state that results from the following procedure:
1. Apply a quantum Fourier transform over F’s additive group Zk
p to each reg-
ister Xi. In other words, interpret Xi as a sequence of registers Xi,1, . . . , Xi,k
containing Zp-qudits, then apply a quantum Fourier transform mod p to each
Xi,j.
2. Initialize a fresh register Y, and apply the isometry |x⟩X →|x⟩X ⊗|Rx⟩Y.
3. Trace out register X.
Then
ρA,Y = TrX[|γ⟩⟨γ|] ⊗
⎛
⎝
1
|F|m

y∈Fm
|y⟩⟨y|
⎞
⎠.

Secret Sharing with Certiﬁed Deletion
201
Remark 1. As an example, consider F to be the ﬁeld with 2n elements. Note
that for the source, the Hamming weight is taken over the larger ﬁeld F, but the
quantum Fourier transform is done over the individual qubits, which in this case
makes it just a Hadamard gate. The extractor R operates over F and produces
an output in Fm.
Proof. First, we apply the Fourier transform to |γ⟩to obtain

|F|−M

u∈FM:hF(u)< M−m
2
|ψu⟩A ⊗

x∈FM
ω
((u+w)F·x)Zp
p
|x⟩X ,
where ωp is a primitive p’th root of unity. Next, after applying the extractor,
but before tracing out X, the state becomes

|F|−M 
x∈FM
⎛
⎝

u∈FM:hF(u)< M−m
2
ω
((u+w)F·x)Zp
p
|ψu⟩A
⎞
⎠⊗|x⟩X ⊗|Rx⟩Y
(1)
:=

|F|−M 
x∈FM
|φx⟩A ⊗|x⟩X ⊗|Rx⟩Y .
(2)
Since the additive group of F is Zk
p, for every u, w ∈FM and x ∈ZkM
p
, we have
((u + w)F · x)Zp = ((u + w)Zkp · x)Zp = ((u + w) · x)Zp.
Tracing out register X yields
ρA,Y = |F|−M 
x∈FM
|φx⟩⟨φx| ⊗|Rx⟩⟨Rx|
(3)
= |F|−M

y∈Fm
x∈FM:(Rx)F=y
|φx⟩⟨φx| ⊗|y⟩⟨y|
(4)
= |F|−M

y∈Fm
x∈FM:(Rx)F=y
⎛
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎝

u1,u2∈FM:
hF(u1),hF(u2)≤M−m
2
ω
((u1+w)·x)Zp
p
ω
((u2+w)·x)Zp
p
|φu1⟩⟨φu2|
⎞
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎠⊗|y⟩⟨y|
(5)
=

u1,u2∈FM:
hF(u1),hF(u2)≤M−m
2
|φu1⟩⟨φu2|
⊗
⎛
⎝|F|−M 
y∈Fm
|y⟩⟨y|

x∈FM:(Rx)F=y
ω
((u1+w)·x−(u2+w)·x)Zp
p
⎞
⎠
(6)

202
J. Bartusek and J. Raizes
=

u1,u2∈FM:
hF(u1),hF(u2)≤M−m
2
|φu1⟩⟨φu2|
⊗
⎛
⎝|F|−M 
y∈Fm
|y⟩⟨y|

x∈FM:(Rx)F=y
ω
((u1−u2)·x)Zp
p
⎞
⎠.
(7)
Next, we apply Proposition 1, proven below, to show that every |φu1⟩⟨φu2|
term where u1 ̸= u2 has coeﬃcient 0. To see this, consider any such u1, u2 and
the value u = (u1 −u2)Zp = (u1 −u2)F. Condition 1 is satisﬁed by u since
u1 ̸= u2. Condition 2 is satisﬁed since hF(u) ≤hF(u1) + hF(u2) ≤M −m, so
there are at least m indices of u which are zero. Finally, condition 3 is satisﬁed
since any m columns of R are linearly independent.
Finally, noting that if u1 = u2, then the coeﬃcient of |φu1⟩⟨φu1| ⊗|y⟩⟨y| is
the number of solutions to (Rx)F = y, which is |F|M−m, we conclude that
ρA,Y =

u∈FM:hF(u)≤M−m
2
|φu⟩⟨φu| ⊗
⎛
⎝|F|−m 
y∈Fm
|y⟩⟨y|
⎞
⎠
(8)
= TrX[|γ⟩⟨γ|] ⊗
⎛
⎝|F|−m 
y∈Fm
|y⟩⟨y|
⎞
⎠.
(9)
⊓⊔
Proposition 1. Let u ∈FM and y ∈Fm, and suppose that
1. ui ̸= 0 for some index i.
2. There exists a set J ⊆[0, . . . , M −1] of size m such that for every j ∈J,
uj = 0.
3. The submatrix RJ consisting of the columns of R corresponding to J has full
rank.
Then

x∈FM:(Rx)F=y
ω
(u·x)Zp
p
= 0.
Remark 2. We note that in the case that F = Fp, then the above expression
actually holds for any u /∈rowspan(R), which follows from a standard argu-
ment. The three conditions above do imply that u /∈rowspan(R), but are more
restrictive. We take advantage of the extra restrictions in order to prove that
the expression holds even in the case where F is an extension ﬁeld of Fp.
Proof. Our strategy will be to partition the aﬃne subspace Sy = {x ∈FM :
(Rx)F = y} into parallel lines, and then claim that the sum over each line is 0.

Secret Sharing with Certiﬁed Deletion
203
To begin, deﬁne a vector z ∈FM so that
– zi = 1,
– zj = 0 for all j /∈J ∪{i}, and
– (Rz)F = 0m,
which is possible because the m×m submatrix RJ has full rank. By construction,
we have that for any c ∈F,
(u · (cz)F)Zp =
⎛
⎝ui · (czi)F +

j∈J
uj · (czj)F +

j /∈J∪{i}
uj · (0)F
⎞
⎠
Zp
= (ui · c)Zp,
(10)
where note that in the ﬁnal expression, ui and c are interpreted as vectors in
Zk
p.
Now, ﬁx any x ∈Sy and c ∈F. Then we have that (x + cz)F ∈Sy, since
(R(x+cz))F = y+0. Therefore, we can partition Sy into one-dimensional cosets
(lines) of the form {x + cz}c∈F.
We now show that the sum over any particular coset is 0, i.e. that for any
x ∈Sy,

c∈F
ω
(u·(x+cz)F)Zp
p
= 0.
Since the additive group of F is Zk
p, by Eq. (10) we have that
(u · (x + cz)F)Zp = (u · x + u · (cz)F)Zp
= (u · x + ui · c)Zp
We now view ui ∈F as a vector ui = ui,0, . . . , ui,k−1 ∈Zk
p. In particular, since
ui ̸= 0, there exists an index t such that uk,t ̸= 0 ∈Zp. By also interpreting c ∈F
as an element of Zk
p, we can decompose it as c = (c′ + ctet)Zp, where c′ ∈Zk
p is
such that c′
t = 0, where ct ∈Zp, and where et ∈Zk
p is the t’th standard basis
vector. Therefore
(u · (x + cz)F)Zp = (u · x + ui · c′ + ui,tct)Zp.
Since ui,t ̸= 0 and ωp is a primitive p’th root of unity, we know that ωui,t
p
̸= 1
is a p’th root of unity. Therefore,

c∈F
ω
(u·(x+cz)F)Zp
p
=

c′∈Zk
p:c′
t=0
ω
(u·x+ui·c′)Zp
p
·

ct∈Zp

ωui,t
p
ct
(11)
=

c′∈Zk
p:c′
t=0
ω
(u·x+ui·c′)Zp
p
· 0
(12)
= 0.
(13)
⊓⊔

204
J. Bartusek and J. Raizes
4
Deﬁnitions of Secret Sharing with Certiﬁed Deletion
A secret sharing scheme with certiﬁed deletion augments the syntax of a secret
sharing scheme with additional algorithms to delete shares and verify deletion
certiﬁcates. We deﬁne it for general access structures. As described in the full
version an access structure S ⊆P([n]) for n parties is a monotonic set of sets,
i.e. if S ∈S and S′ ⊃S, then S′ ∈S. Any set of parties S ∈S is authorized
to access the secret. A simple example of an access structure is the threshold
structure, where any set of at least k parties is authorized to access the secret.
We denote this access structure as (k, n).
Deﬁnition 1 (Secret Sharing with Certiﬁed Deletion). A secret sharing
scheme with certiﬁed deletion is speciﬁed by a monotone access structure S over
n parties, and consists of four algorithms:
– SplitS(1λ, s) takes in a secret s, and outputs n share registers S1, . . . , Sn and
a veriﬁcation key vk.
– ReconstructS({Si}i∈P ) takes in set of share registers for some P ⊆[n], and
outputs either s or ⊥.
– DeleteS(Si) takes in a share register and outputs a certiﬁcate of deletion cert.
– VerifyS(vk, i, cert) takes in the veriﬁcation key vk, an index i, and a certiﬁcate
of deletion cert, and outputs either ⊤(indicating accept) or ⊥(indicating
reject).
Deﬁnition 2 (Correctness of Secret Sharing with Certiﬁed Deletion).
A secret sharing scheme with certiﬁed deletion must satisfy two correctness
properties:
– Reconstruction Correctness. For all λ ∈N and all sets S ∈S,
Pr

ReconstructS({Si}i∈S) : (S1, . . . , Sn, vk) ←SplitS(1λ, s)

= 1.
– Deletion Correctness. For all λ ∈N and all i ∈[n],
Pr

VerifyS(vk, i, cert) = ⊤: (S1, . . . , Sn, vk) ←SplitS(1λ, s)
cert ←DeleteS(Si)

= 1.
The standard notion of security for secret sharing requires that no set of
unauthorized shares S /∈S reveals any information about the secret (see the full
version). We next present our notion of no-signaling certiﬁed deletion security.
Here, the shares are partitioned into unauthorized sets, and diﬀerent parts of the
adversary operate on each partition, potentially deleting some number of shares
from each. The diﬀerent parts of the adversary are allowed to share entanglement,
but are not allowed to signal. If the adversaries jointly produce a valid certiﬁcate
for at least one share from every authorized set, then we require that the joint
residual state of all of the adversaries contains no (or negligible) information
about the secret. Observe that this notion of security is at least as strong as the
standard notion of security for secret sharing (if we relax to statistical rather than

Secret Sharing with Certiﬁed Deletion
205
perfect security). Indeed, if the standard notion does not hold, and thus there
is some unauthorized set S that leaks information about the secret, then the
adversary would be able to win the certiﬁed deletion game by honestly deleting
every share except for those in S.
Deﬁnition 3 (No-Signaling
Certiﬁed
Deletion
Security
for
Secret
Sharing). Let P = (P1, . . . , Pℓ) be a partition of [n], let |ψ⟩be an ℓ-part state
on registers R1, . . . , Rℓ, and let Adv = (Adv1, . . . , Advℓ) be an ℓ-part adversary.
Deﬁne the experiment SS-NSCDS(1λ, P, |ψ⟩, Adv, s) as follows:
1. Sample (S1, . . . , Sn, vk) ←SplitS(1λ, s).
2. For each t ∈[ℓ], run ({certi}i∈Pt, R′
t) ←Advt({Si}i∈Pt, Rt), where R′
t is an
arbitrary output register.
3. If for all S ∈S, there exists i ∈S such that VerifyS(vk, i, certi) = ⊤, then
output (R′
1, . . . , R′
ℓ), and otherwise output ⊥.
A secret sharing scheme for access structure S has no-signaling certiﬁed dele-
tion security if for any “admissible” partition P = (P1, . . . , Pℓ) (i.e. for all
Pt ∈P and S ∈S, Pt ̸⊆S), any ℓ-part state |ψ⟩, any (unbounded) ℓ-part
adversary Adv, and any pair of secrets s0, s1,
TD[SS-NSCDS(1λ, P, |ψ⟩, Adv, s0), SS-NSCDS(1λ, P, |ψ⟩, Adv, s1)] = negl(λ).
Next, we present an alternative deﬁnition which allows the adversary to start
by corrupting some unauthorized set, and then continue to adaptively delete
some shares and corrupt new parties, as long as the total set of parties cor-
rupted minus the set of shares deleted is unauthorized. Similarly to the previous
deﬁnition, adaptive certiﬁed deletion for secret sharing subsumes the standard
notion of security for secret sharing.
Deﬁnition 4 (Adaptive Certiﬁed Deletion for Secret Sharing). Let Adv
be an adversary with internal register R which is initialized to a state |ψ⟩,
let S be an access structure, and let s be a secret. Deﬁne the experiment
SS-ACDS(1λ, |ψ⟩, Adv, s) as follows:
1. Sample (S1, . . . , Sn, vk) ←SplitS(1λ, s). Initialize the corruption set C = ∅
and the deleted set D = ∅.
2. In each round i, the adversary may do one of three things:
(a) End the experiment by outputting a register R ←Adv({Sj}j∈C, R).
(b) Delete a share by outputting a certiﬁcate certi, an index ji ∈[n], and
register (certi, ji, R) ←Adv({Sj}j∈C, R). When the adversary chooses
this option, if VerifyS(vk, ji, certi) outputs ⊤, then add ji to D. Otherwise,
immediately abort the experiment and output ⊥.
(c) Corrupt a new share by outputting an index ji ∈[n] and register (ji, R) ←
Adv({Sj}j∈C, R). When the adversary chooses this option, add ji to C.
If C\D ∈S, immediately abort the experiment and output ⊥.
3. Output R, unless the experiment has already aborted.

206
J. Bartusek and J. Raizes
A secret sharing scheme for access structure S has adaptive certiﬁed deletion
security if for any (unbounded) adversary Adv, any state |ψ⟩, and any pair of
secrets (s0, s1),
TD[SS-ACDS(1λ, |ψ⟩, Adv, s0), SS-ACDS(1λ, |ψ⟩, Adv, s1)] = negl(λ)
It will also be convenient to establish some notation for the order of the
corrupted and deleted shares. Let ca be the a’th share to be corrupted (i.e.
added to C) and let db be the b’th share to be deleted (i.e. added to D).
5
Secret Sharing with No-Signaling Certiﬁed Deletion
In this section, we’ll show how to combine any classical secret sharing scheme
(CSplitS, CReconstructS) (see the full version for the deﬁnition) for access struc-
ture S ∈P([n]) with a 2-out-of-2 secret sharing scheme with certiﬁed deletion
(Split2-2, Reconstruct2-2, Delete2-2, Verify2-2) (see the full version for the deﬁni-
tion) in order to obtain a secret sharing scheme for S that satisﬁes no-signaling
certiﬁed deletion security (Deﬁnition 3).
SplitS(1λ, s)
– Sample (sh1, . . . , shn) ←CSplitS(s).
– Set κ = max{λ, n}2, and for each i ∈[n], sample (|qshi⟩, cshi, vki) ←
Split2-2(1κ, shi).
– For each i ∈[n], sample (cshi,1, . . . , cshi,n) ←CSplitS(cshi).
– Set vk = (vk1, . . . , vkn), and initialize register Si to |qshi⟩, {cshj,i}j∈[n].
ReconstructS({Si}i∈P )
– Parse each register Si as |qshi⟩, {cshj,i}j∈[n].
– For each i ∈P, compute cshi ←CReconstructS({cshi,j}j∈P ), and output ⊥if
the result is ⊥.
– For each i ∈P, compute shi ←Reconstruct2-2(|qshi⟩, cshi).
– Output s ←CReconstructS({shi}i∈P ).
DeleteS(Si)
– Parse Si as |qshi⟩, {cshj,i}j∈[n] and output cert ←Delete2-2(|qshi⟩).
VerifyS(vk, i, cert)
– Parse vk = (vk1, . . . , vkn) and output Verify2-2(vki, cert).
Fig. 1. Secret sharing with no-signaling certiﬁed deletion security for any access struc-
ture S.

Secret Sharing with Certiﬁed Deletion
207
Theorem 4. The construction given in Fig. 1 satisﬁes no-signaling certiﬁed
deletion security (Deﬁnition 3).
Proof. Let Adv = (Adv1, . . . , Advℓ) be any ℓ-part adversary that partitions the
shares using an admissible partition P = (P1, . . . , Pℓ) and is initialized with
the ℓ-part state |ψ⟩on registers R1, . . . , Rℓ. Let s0, s1 be any two secrets, and
assume for contradiction that
TD[SS-NSCDS(1λ, P, |ψ⟩, Adv, s0), SS-NSCDS(1λ, P, |ψ⟩, Adv, s1)] = nonnegl(λ).
Now, for s ∈{s0, s1}, deﬁne a hybrid H1(s) as follows.
H1(s)
1. Sample C ←P([n]).
2. Sample (sh1, . . . , shn) ←CSplitS(s).
3. Set κ = max{λ, n}2, and for each i ∈[n], sample (|qshi⟩, cshi, vki) ←
Split2-2(1κ, shi).
4. For each i ∈[n], sample (cshi,1, . . . , cshi,n) ←CSplitS(cshi).
5. Set vk = (vk1, . . . , vkn), and initialize register Si to |qshi⟩, {cshj,i}j∈[n].
6. For each t ∈[ℓ], run ({certi}i∈Pt, R′
t) ←Advt({Si}i∈Pt, Rt).
7. Let C∗:= {i : Verify2-2(vki, i, certi) = ⊤}. Output (R′
1, . . . , R′
ℓ) if C = C∗
and [n] \ C∗/∈S, and otherwise output ⊥.
That is, H1(s) is the same as SS-NSCDS(1λ, P, |ψ⟩, Adv, s) except that H1(s)
makes a uniformly random guess C for the subset of shares for which the adver-
sary produces a valid deletion certiﬁcate, and aborts if this guess is incorrect.
Proposition 2. TD [H1(s0), H1(s1)] = nonnegl(λ) · 2−n.
Proof. This follows directly from the fact that H1(s)’s guess for C is correct with
probability 1/2n, and, conditioned on the guess being correct, H1(s) is identical
to SS-NSCDS(1λ, P, |ψ⟩, Adv, s).
⊓⊔
Now, for s ∈{s0, s1} and k ∈[0, . . . , n], deﬁne a sequence of hybrids H2,k(s)
as follows.
H2,k(s)
1. Sample C ←P([n]).
2. Sample (sh1, . . . , shn) ←CSplitS(s).
3. Set κ = max{λ, n}2 and for each i ∈[n], if i ≤k and i ∈C, sample
(|qshi⟩, cshi, vki) ←Split2-2(1κ, ⊥), and otherwise sample (|qshi⟩, cshi, vki) ←
Split2-2(1κ, shi).
4. For each i ∈[n], sample (cshi,1, . . . , cshi,n) ←CSplitS(cshi).
5. Set vk = (vk1, . . . , vkn), and initialize register Si to |qshi⟩, {cshj,i}j∈[n].
6. For each t ∈[ℓ], run ({certi}i∈Pt, R′
t) ←Advt({Si}i∈Pt, Rt).

208
J. Bartusek and J. Raizes
7. Let C∗:= {i : Verify2-2(vki, i, certi) = ⊤}. Output (R′
1, . . . , R′
ℓ) if C = C∗
and [n] \ C∗/∈S, and otherwise output ⊥.
First, note that H1(s0) = H2,0(s0) and H1(s1) = H2,0(s1). Next, we show
the following claim.
Proposition 3. H2,n(s0) ≡H2,n(s1).
Proof. In each experiment, if the output is not ⊥, then we know that
[n] \ C is an unauthorized set. Moreover, the experiments do not depend on
the information {shi}i∈C. Thus, the claim follows by the perfect privacy of
(CSplitS, CReconstructS), which implies that
{{shi}i∈C\[n] : (sh1, . . . , shn) ←CSplitS(s0)}
≡{{shi}i∈C\[n] : (sh1, . . . , shn) ←CSplitS(s1)}.
⊓⊔
Finally, we show the following claim.
Proposition 4. For s ∈{s0, s1} and k ∈[n], it holds that TD [H2,k−1(s),
H2,k(s)] = 2−Ω(κ).
Proof. The only diﬀerence between these hybrids is that if k ∈C, we switch
shk to ⊥in the third step. So, suppose that k ∈C, and consider the following
reduction to the certiﬁed deletion security (see the full version for the deﬁnition)
of (Split2-2, Reconstruct2-2, Delete2-2, Verify2-2). This experiment is parameterized
by a bit b which determines which one of two secrets the certiﬁed deletion chal-
lenger will share.
– The reduction samples C ←P([n]) and (sh1, . . . , shn) ←CSplitS(s), and sends
{shk, ⊥} to the challenger.
– The challenger samples (|qshk⟩, cshk, vkk) ←Split2-2(1κ, shk) if b = 0 or
(|qshk⟩, cshk, vkk) ←Split2-2(1κ, ⊥) if b = 1, and sends |qshk⟩to the
reduction.
– For each i ∈[n] \ {k}, if i < k and i ∈C, the reduction samples (|qshi⟩,
cshi, vki) ←Split2-2(1κ, ⊥), and otherwise samples (|qshi⟩, cshi, vki) ←
Split2-2(1κ, shi).
– Let t∗∈[ℓ] be such that k ∈Pt∗. For each i ∈[n] \ {k}, the reduc-
tion samples (cshi,1, . . . , cshi,n) ←CSplitS(cshi). Next, the reduction samples
{cshk,i}i∈Pt∗←Sim(Pt∗), where Sim is the simulator guaranteed by the pri-
vacy of (CSplitS, CReconstructS).
– For each i ∈Pt∗, initialize register Si to |qshi⟩, {cshj,i}j∈[n].
– The reduction runs ({certi}i∈Pt∗, R′
t∗) ←Advt∗({Si}i∈Pt∗, Rt∗), and sends
certk to the challenger.
– The challenger checks whether Verify2-2(vkk, certk) = ⊤. If so, the challenger
returns cshk, and otherwise the experiment aborts and outputs ⊥.

Secret Sharing with Certiﬁed Deletion
209
– The reduction samples {cshk,i}i∈[n]\Pt∗conditioned on the joint distribution
of (cshk,1, . . . , cshk,n) being identical to CSplitS(cshk). This is possible due to
the guarantee of Sim(Pt∗), that is,
{{cshk,i}i∈Pt∗: (cshk,1, . . . , cshk,n) ←CSplitS(cshk)}
≡{{cshk,i}i∈Pt∗: {cshk,i}i∈Pt∗←Sim(Pt∗)} .
– For each i
∈
[n]\Pt∗, the reduction initializes register Si to |qshi⟩,
{cshj,i}j∈[n].
– For each t ∈[ℓ]\{t∗}, run ({certi}i∈Pt, R′
t) ←Advt({Si}i∈Pt, Rt).
– Let C∗:= {i : Verify2-2(vki, i, certi) = ⊤}. The reduction outputs (R′
1, . . . , R′
ℓ)
if C = C∗and [n]\C∗/∈S, and otherwise outputs ⊥.
Observe that in the case b = 0, the output of this experiment is iden-
tical to H2,k−1(s) while if b = 1, the output of this experiment is identi-
cal to H2,k(s). Thus, the claim follows from the certiﬁed deletion security of
(Split2-2, Reconstruct2-2, Delete2-2, Verify2-2).
⊓⊔
Thus, by combining Proposition 3 and Proposition 4, we have that
TD [H1(s0), H1(s1)] = 2n · 2−Ω(κ) ≤2−Ω({max{λ,n}2}).
However, this violates Proposition 2, since
2−Ω({max{λ,n}2}) < nonnegl(λ) · 2−n,
which completes the proof.
⊓⊔
6
Threshold Secret Sharing with Adaptive Certiﬁed
Deletion
In this section, we show how to construct a secret sharing scheme for threshold
access structures that satisﬁes adaptive certiﬁed deletion (Deﬁnition 4).
6.1
Construction
Our construction is given in Fig. 3, which uses a set of parameters described in
Fig. 2. We provide some intuition about the parameter settings here.
The secret is encoded in a polynomial f of degree p. For security, we need p
to be at least as large as the number of points of f that the adversary can learn.
At most, the adversary can hold up to k −1 intact shares and the residual states
of n−k +1 deleted shares. Each of the k −1 intact shares contains t′ evaluations
of f. Additionally, the adversary may retain some small amount of information
about each of the deleted shares. We upper bound the retained information by
a parameter ℓfor each share. This gives the adversary a maximum of
(k −1)t′ + (n −k + 1)ℓ

210
J. Bartusek and J. Raizes
The construction in Figure 3 uses the following parameters.a
– Each share consists of t total K-registers, where
t = (k + 1)r

1 + (n −k + 1) log(λ)
λ

+ 1
– A share is divided into r check indices and t′ = t −r data indices, where
r = (λ + (n −k + 1) log(λ))2
– ℓintuitively represents an upper bound on the amount of information which
is not destroyed when an adversary generates a valid deletion certiﬁcate for a
share.
ℓ= tlog(λ)
√r
See the proof of security in the full version for a more precise usage of ℓ.
– The secret will be encoded in a polynomial of degree
p = (k −1)t′ + (n −k + 1)ℓ
a The parameters provided here are slightly looser than necessary, to facilitate
easier inspection. We present a tighter set of parameters in the full version.
Fig. 2. Parameters for Secret Sharing with Adaptive Certiﬁed Deletion
evaluations of f, which becomes the minimum safe setting for p.
Each share will also include a number of “check positions”, which contain
Fourier basis states that are used for veriﬁcation of deletion. The number of
check positions r and upper bound ℓare set roughly so that with overwhelming
probability, the adversary can retain no more than ℓevaluations of f when it
deletes a share (more precisely, the adversary may retain a superposition over
potentially diﬀerent sets of ℓevaluations). The reader may ﬁnd it useful to think
of ℓas being the maximum number of unexamined positions in a classical string
x when an adversary successfully creates a string y that matches x on r random
veriﬁcation indices. Finally, the total size t of each share is set so that k shares
contain less than (kt −p)/2 check positions, which is the maximum number of
errors that can be corrected in kt evaluations of a polynomial of degree p (see
the full version).
Theorem 5. There exists secret sharing for threshold access structures which
satisﬁes adaptive certiﬁed deletion.
Proof. The construction is given in Fig. 3. Deletion correctness is apparent from
inspection of the construction. We prove reconstruction correctness in Lemma 1.
See Sect. 2.2 for an overview of the security proof and the full version for more
details.
⊓⊔

Secret Sharing with Certiﬁed Deletion
211
Parameters: Let F2 be the binary ﬁeld and let K be the ﬁeld with 2⌈log2(nt+1)⌉
elements. See Figure 2 for descriptions and settings of the parameters t, t′, r, ℓ,
and p.
Split(k,n)(1λ, s)
– Sample a random polynomial f with coeﬃcients in K and degree p such that
f(0) = s.
– For each i ∈[n]:
1. Sample a random set of indices Ji ⊂[t] of size t′ = t −r.
2. For each j ∈Ji, set |ψi,j⟩= |f(it + j)⟩. These are the t′ data positions.
3. For each j ∈[t]\Ji, sample a uniform element yi,j ←K and set |ψi,j⟩=
H⊗⌈log2(n+1)⌉|yi,j⟩. These are the r check positions.
4. Initialize register Si to t
j=1 |ψi,j⟩.
– Set vk = {Ji, {yi,j}j∈[t]\Ji}i∈[n].
Reconstruct(k,n)(1λ, {Si}i∈P )
– If |P| < k, output ⊥. Otherwise, set P ′ to be any k shares in P.
– For each i ∈P ′, measure Si in the computational basis to obtain yi =
(yi,1, . . . , yi,t) ∈Kt.
– Compute f ←CorrectK,p({(it+j, yi,j)}i∈P ′,j∈[t]), as deﬁned in the full version.
– Output f(0).
Delete(k,n)(1λ, Si)
– Parse Si as a sequence of t⌈log2(n + 1)⌉single qubit registers, measure each
qubit register in Hadamard basis and output the result cert.
Verify(k,n)(1λ, vk, i, cert)
– Parse vk = {Ji, {yi,j}j∈[t]\Ji}i∈[n], and parse cert ∈Kt as a sequence of t
elements of K. Output ⊤if certj = yi,j for every j ∈Ji, and ⊥otherwise.
Fig. 3. Construction for Secret Sharing with Adaptive Certiﬁed Deletion
Lemma 1. The construction in Fig. 3 using parameters from Fig. 2 has recon-
struction correctness.
Proof. The set {(it + j, yi,j)}i∈P ′,j∈[t] contains kt pairs which were obtained by
measuring k shares. As mentioned in the full version, if all but e < (kt −p)/2
of these pairs (it + j, yi,j) satisfy yi,j = f(it + j), then CorrectK,p recovers the
original polynomial f, where f(0) = s. The only points which do not satisfy
this are the check positions, of which there are r per share, for a total of kr.

212
J. Bartusek and J. Raizes
Therefore for correctness, we require that
2kr < kt −p
(14)
= kt −(k −1)(t −r) −(n −k + 1)ℓ
(15)
= t + (k −1)r −(n −k + 1)ℓ
(16)
Therefore t −(n −k + 1)ℓ> (k + 1)r. Substituting ℓ= t log(λ)
√r
yields
t

1 −(n −k + 1)log(λ)
√r

> (k + 1)r
(17)
t > (k + 1)r
1
1 −(n −k + 1) log(λ)
√r
(18)
= (k + 1)r
√r
√r −(n −k + 1) log(λ)
(19)
= (k + 1)r

1 +
(n −k + 1) log(λ)
√r −(n −k + 1) log(λ)

(20)
= (k + 1)r

1 +
(n −k + 1) log(λ)
λ + (n −k + 1) log(λ) −(n −k + 1) log(λ)

(21)
= (k + 1)r

1 + (n −k + 1) log(λ)
λ

(22)
Note that Eq. (18) requires that

1 −(n −k + 1)t log(λ)
√r

> 0. Since the number
of check positions is r = (λ + (n −k + 1) log(λ))2, we have
1 −(n −k + 1)
log(λ)
λ + (n −k + 1) log(λ) > 1 −(n −k + 1) log(λ)
(n −k + 1) log(λ) = 0
(23)
Finally, observe that the choice of parameters in the construction satisﬁes these
constraints.
⊓⊔
Acknowledgements. We thank Orestis Chardouvelis and Dakshita Khurana for col-
laboration and insightful discussions during the early stages of this research.
References
1. Agarwal, A., Bartusek, J., Khurana, D., Kumar, N.: A new framework for quantum
oblivious transfer. In: Hazay, C., Stam, M. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2023, Part I.
LNCS, vol. 14004, pp. 363–394. Springer, Heidelberg (2023). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-031-30545-0 13
2. Applebaum, B., Beimel, A., Farr`as, O., Nir, O., Peter, N.: Secret-sharing schemes
for general and uniform access structures. In: Ishai, Y., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EURO-
CRYPT 2019, Part III. LNCS, vol. 11478, pp. 441–471. Springer, Heidelberg (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-17659-4 15

Secret Sharing with Certiﬁed Deletion
213
3. Bartusek, J., Goyal, V., Khurana, D., Malavolta, G., Raizes, J., Roberts, B.: Soft-
ware with certiﬁed deletion. In: Eurocrypt 2024 (2024, to appear)
4. Bartusek, J., Khurana, D.: Cryptography with certiﬁed deletion. In: Handschuh,
H., Lysyanskaya, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2023, Part V. LNCS, vol. 14085, pp. 192–223.
Springer, Heidelberg (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-38554-4 7
5. Bartusek, J., Khurana, D., Malavolta, G., Poremba, A., Walter, M.: Weakening
assumptions for publicly-veriﬁable deletion. In: Rothblum, G., Wee, H. (eds.) The-
ory of Cryptography, vol. 14372, pp. 183–197. Springer, Cham (2023). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-031-48624-1 7
6. Bartusek, J., Khurana, D., Poremba, A.: Publicly-veriﬁable deletion via target-
collapsing functions. In: Handschuh, H., Lysyanskaya, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2023,
Part V. LNCS, vol. 14085, pp. 99–128. Springer, Heidelberg (2023)
7. Beimel, A.: Secret-sharing schemes: a survey. In: Chee, Y.M., et al. (eds.) IWCC
2011. LNCS, vol. 6639, pp. 11–46. Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-642-20901-7 2
8. Josh Cohen Benaloh and Jerry Leichter: Generalized secret sharing and mono-
tone functions. In: Goldwasser, S. (ed.) CRYPTO’88. LNCS, vol. 403, pp. 27–35.
Springer, Heidelberg (1990). https://doi.org/10.1007/0-387-34799-2 3
9. Blakley, G.R.: Safeguarding cryptographic keys. In: 1979 International Workshop
on Managing Requirements Knowledge (MARK), pp. 313–318 (1979)
10. Bouman, N.J., Fehr, S.: Sampling in a quantum population, and applications. In:
Rabin, T. (ed.) CRYPTO 2010. LNCS, vol. 6223, pp. 724–741. Springer, Heidelberg
(2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-14623-7 39
11. Broadbent, A., Islam, R.: Quantum encryption with certiﬁed deletion. In: Pass,
R., Pietrzak, K. (eds.) TCC 2020. LNCS, vol. 12552, pp. 92–122. Springer, Cham
(2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-64381-2 4
12. Damg˚ard, I., Fehr, S., Lunemann, C., Salvail, L., Schaﬀner, C.: Improving the
security of quantum protocols via commit-and-open. In: Halevi, S. (ed.) CRYPTO
2009. LNCS, vol. 5677, pp. 408–427. Springer, Heidelberg (2009)
13. Desmedt, Y., Frankel, Y.: Threshold cryptosystems. In: Brassard, G. (ed.)
CRYPTO 1989. LNCS, vol. 435, pp. 307–315. Springer, New York (1990). https://
doi.org/10.1007/0-387-34805-0 28
14. Hiroka, T., Kitagawa, F., Morimae, T., Nishimaki, R., Pal, T., Yamakawa, T.:
Certiﬁed everlasting secure collusion-resistant functional encryption, and more.
In: Eurocrypt 2024 (2024, to appear)
15. Hiroka, T., Morimae, T., Nishimaki, R., Yamakawa, T.: Quantum encryption
with certiﬁed deletion, revisited: public key, attribute-based, and classical com-
munication. In: Tibouchi, M., Wang, H. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2021, Part I. LNCS,
vol. 13090, pp. 606–636. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-92062-3 21
16. Hiroka, T., Morimae, T., Nishimaki, R., Yamakawa, T.: Certiﬁed everlasting zero-
knowledge proof for QMA. In: Dodis, Y., Shrimpton, T. (eds.) CRYPTO 2022,
Part I. LNCS, vol. 13507, pp. 239–268. Springer, Heidelberg (2022). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-031-15802-5 9
17. Ito,M., Saito, A., Nishizeki, T.: Secret sharing schemes realizing general access
structure. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Global Telecommunication Conference
(Globecom’87), pp. 99–102 (1987)
18. Kitagawa, F., Nishimaki, R., Yamakawa, T.: Publicly veriﬁable deletion from min-
imal assumptions. In: Rothblum, G.N., Wee, H. (eds.) TCC 2023, Part IV. LNCS,
vol. 14372, pp. 228–245. Springer, Cham (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
031-48624-1 9

214
J. Bartusek and J. Raizes
19. Liu, T., Vaikuntanathan, V.: Breaking the circuit-size barrier in secret sharing. In:
Proceedings of the 50th Annual ACM SIGACT Symposium on Theory of Com-
puting, STOC 2018, page 699-708, New York, NY, USA, 2018. Association for
Computing Machinery (2018)
20. Poremba, A.: Quantum proofs of deletion for learning with errors. In: Tauman
Kalai, Y. (ed.) 14th Innovations in Theoretical Computer Science Conference
(ITCS 2023), volume 251 of Leibniz International Proceedings in Informatics
(LIPIcs), pp. 90:1–90:14, Dagstuhl, Germany (2023). Schloss Dagstuhl – Leibniz-
Zentrum f¨ur Informatik
21. Reed, I.S., Solomon, G.: Polynomial codes over certain ﬁnite ﬁelds. J. Soc. Ind.
Appl. Math. 8(2), 300–304 (1960)
22. Renner, R., K¨onig, R.: Universally composable privacy ampliﬁcation against quan-
tum adversaries. In: Kilian, J. (ed.) TCC 2005. LNCS, vol. 3378, pp. 407–425.
Springer, Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-30576-7 22
23. Shamir, A.: How to share a secret. Commun. Assoc. Comput. Mach. 22(11), 612–
613 (1979)

