Security Analysis of the WhatsApp
End-to-End Encrypted Backup Protocol
Gareth T. Davies1, Sebastian Faller2,3(B), Kai Gellert1, Tobias Handirk1(B),
Julia Hesse2, M´at´e Horv´ath1, and Tibor Jager1
1 Bergische Universit¨at Wuppertal, Wuppertal, Germany
davies@uni-wuppertal.de , tobias.handirk@uni-wuppertal.de
2 IBM Research Europe – Zurich, R¨uschlikon, Switzerland
3 ETH Zurich, Z¨urich, Switzerland
sebastian.faller@ibm.com
Abstract. WhatsApp is an end-to-end encrypted (E2EE) messaging
service used by billions of people. In late 2021, WhatsApp rolled out
a new protocol for backing up chat histories. The E2EE WhatsApp
backup protocol (WBP) allows users to recover their chat history from
passwords, leaving WhatsApp oblivious of the actual encryption keys.
The WBP builds upon the OPAQUE framework for password-based key
exchange, which is currently undergoing standardization.
While considerable eﬀorts have gone into the design and auditing of
the WBP, the complexity of the protocol’s design and shortcomings in
the existing security analyses of its building blocks make it hard to under-
stand the actual security guarantees that the WBP provides.
In this work, we provide the ﬁrst formal security analysis of the WBP.
Our analysis in the universal composability (UC) framework conﬁrms
that the WBP provides strong protection of users’ chat history and pass-
words. It also shows that a corrupted server can under certain conditions
make more password guesses than what previous analysis suggests.
1
Introduction
WhatsApp is the most popular instant messaging app in the world with over 100
billion messages sent per day, containing personal and business communications.
WhatsApp provides end-to-end encrypted (E2EE) communications [32], where
no party but sender and receiver should be able to read (or modify) messages.
This speciﬁcally prevents the WhatsApp service provider from breaking security
guarantees such as conﬁdentiality if the service gets compromised. E2EE is con-
sidered a default standard for modern secure messaging protocols, and several
Gareth T. Davies, Tobias Handirk, and Tibor Jager have been supported by the Euro-
pean Research Council (ERC) under the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and
innovation programme, grant agreement 802823. Julia Hesse was supported by the
Swiss National Science Foundation (SNSF) under the AMBIZIONE grant “Crypto-
graphic Protocols for Human Authentication and the IoT”. M´at´e Horv´ath has been
supported by the German Research Foundation (DFG), project JA2445/6-1.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2023
H. Handschuh and A. Lysyanskaya (Eds.): CRYPTO 2023, LNCS 14084, pp. 330–361, 2023.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-38551-3_11

Security Analysis of the WhatsApp End-to-End Encrypted Backup Protocol
331
formal analyses of the E2EE messaging protocol used by WhatsApp and other
messaging apps such as Signal exist [2,4,5,10,13,14,24,29,30].
Bypassing E2EE via Backups. Protecting the transmission of conﬁdential data
is necessary to enable secure messaging, however, it is not suﬃcient. WhatsApp
clients can back up the user’s chat history so that they can recover it if the
device is lost, for example by theft or switching to a new phone. Naturally, the
backup mechanism must oﬀer strong protection as well, so as not to undermine
the security of the E2EE messaging protocol.
Before the end of 2021, whenever a user1 initiated the procedure for backing
up their messages (to be stored on iCloud or Google Drive), they would encrypt
these messages using a key that was known to WhatsApp. While this simple
approach allowed WhatsApp to return the backup encryption key to the user
if the original device were to be lost, it allowed access to backed up messages
beyond the control of the user. For example, by US law, federal governments
could have forced WhatsApp to reveal the backup key (and the storage provider
to reveal the encrypted contents) through a court order, and the previously well
protected private communication suddenly becomes evidence in a lawsuit [27].
More generally, the fact that the E2EE security can be circumvented by accessing
the backups harbors a great potential for abuse, for instance by malfeasant
governments, malicious employees, or in case of a compromise of both the storage
provider’s servers and WhatsApp’s servers.
WhatsApp E2EE Backups. In late 2021, WhatsApp rolled out an improved pro-
tocol for protecting backups [31], with the aim to extend the E2EE security
guarantees in a user-friendly way that enables users to restore their backup
keys from a password in case a device is lost. By early 2023, over 100 million
WhatsApp users have already switched to this option [12]. The underlying proto-
col, which we call the WhatsApp backup protocol (WBP) in this work, makes use
of hardware security modules (HSMs). Intuitively, an HSM can be programmed
once with code and then “locked” in such a way that it is infeasible to change its
code afterwards. This enables even the protection of a protocol against corrup-
tion of the party running the HSM (here, the WhatsApp servers). The challenge
now lies in designing the code run by the HSM in such a way that (1) users
can retrieve their backup keys from a password, but (2) WhatsApp servers not
knowing the user password cannot retrieve the backup key.
The core idea of the WBP is to outsource all cryptographic computations
to the client and the HSM, while the WhatsApp “main server” essentially only
relays messages (with some minor modiﬁcations) between client and HSM. The
protocol is designed such that during the initialization phase2 both client and
HSM enter a secret value (a password pw for the client, and a “per-client-secret”3
for the HSM). Furthermore, the client chooses a symmetric backup key K and
the HSM receives an encrypted version of the key, without either of them learning
1 In this paper we will refer to the people using a device that runs the WhatsApp
client software as users, to the device as a client, and to the servers that provide the
WhatsApp chat and backup service as servers.
2 Note that WhatsApp refer to this phase as registration.
3 It is actually a “per-backup-secret”, which is determined during initialization. If a
client were to re-register, a new “per-backup-secret” would be chosen.

332
G. T. Davies et al.
the secret input of the counterparty. The client uses the backup key K to encrypt
the backup data. If a user loses their device, they can initiate a recovery protocol
from a new client device. To this end, the new client and the WhatsApp “main
server” (which, again, relays messages to the HSM) execute a protocol where the
client recovers the backup key, with the password pw used during initialization
and the HSM contributing the same per-client-secret as during initialization.
The password-based nature of the WBP introduces several technical chal-
lenges. Firstly, being password-based while aiming at keeping the stored key from
a potentially compromised WhatsApp server implies that the protocol must not
leak user passwords to the server. To this end, the WBP deploys OPAQUE [23],
an asymmetric password-based key exchange protocol (aPAKE) [19] that allows
a key exchange from a password without disclosing the password itself to the
server. Another essential feature the WBP aims to provide is security against
password guessing attacks, where a malicious client repeatedly executes the
recovery protocol with password guesses pw′. If the password guess pw′ equals
the password pw used during initialization, an adversary would gain access to
the secret backup key. Note that this attack is especially eﬀective if the user
password only has low entropy, which is often the case for human-memorable
passwords in practice. The deployed protocol limits the number of admissible
incorrect guesses to ten [18,31], after which the HSM destroys the encrypted
version of the backup key (and thus makes the backup irrecoverable). This guar-
antee should even hold if the WhatsApp server were to be compromised.
Contributions. The WBP protocol is a widely-used real-world cryptographic pro-
tocol that addresses the fundamental problem of recovering data from encrypted
backups based on human-memorizable secrets. It aims to provide strong security
properties that match the E2EE-security of the messaging protocol, even against
a corrupted service provider. This work presents the ﬁrst rigorous security anal-
ysis of the WBP. Concretely, our results can be summarized as follows.
– We formalize the security properties expected from the WBP protocol in
terms of a password-protected key retrieval (PPKR) scheme, where users store
cryptographic keys on an untrusted server, retrievable with a password. This
formalization serves as a foundation for our work, and may also support
future analyses of alternative (potentially non-HSM-based) PPKR protocols
and their comparison.
– We provide a full description of the cryptographic core of the WBP proto-
col. This description is based on a whitepaper published by WhatsApp [31],
a public security assessment of the backup system conducted by the NCC
Group [18], and personal correspondence with the WBP designers [1] to ﬁll
subtle but essential technical gaps left in the protocol descriptions of [18,31].
– We present the ﬁrst formal security analysis of the WBP protocol. Our anal-
ysis is conducted in the universal composability (UC) framework [9], which
is simulation-based and therefore facilitates the consideration of low-entropy
passwords. We formally conﬁrm several prior statements about the security
guarantees of the WBP.

Security Analysis of the WhatsApp End-to-End Encrypted Backup Protocol
333
– We describe how a corrupted server could get more than ten password guesses
per encrypted backup, even though prior security analysis [18] claimed that
after ten incorrect tries the account is irremediably locked by the HSM soft-
ware, and the backup data cannot be retrieved in plaintext. Concretely, we
show that a corrupted server can get ten password guesses per backup ini-
tialization. For example, a corrupted server could suppress protocol mes-
sages to simulate a failed initialization, such that either the WhatsApp client
app retries sending of initialization messages automatically, or the user re-
initializes a backup manually, in order to increase the number of password
guesses against the HSM.
– We give a formal analysis of the 2HashDH oblivious pseudorandom func-
tion [21] (that is used in OPAQUE) in the multi-key setting, where the
domains of the two hash functions used as a building block are not assumed
to be separated for diﬀerent keys. For our work, this result is required
since the WBP does not apply hash domain separation. Beyond that, our
ﬁndings provide the basis for analyzing the about-to-be-standardized version
of OPAQUE [6]4 and the 2HashDH protocol currently in last call at the
IRTF [16] even under the usage of multiple OPRF keys.
Paper Organization.
The remainder of this work is structured as follows.
Section 2 contains technical preliminaries and Sect. 3 provides a full protocol
description of the WBP. We then describe our model for PPKR in Sect. 4 and
give our formal result in Sect. 5 (the full proof can be found in the full ver-
sion [17]). Our work concludes with a discussion in Sect. 6.
Responsible Disclosure. The research conducted for this work did not impact the
entire WhatsApp system or the privacy of WhatsApp users. In particular, there
was no interaction with the WhatsApp servers, HSMs, or any WhatsApp users.
The protocol description was written with the help of WhatsApp employees [1],
and no reverse-engineering of any implemented code took place. The scenario in
which a corrupt WhatsApp server can increase the number of password guesses
against a user was never demonstrated in practice, but it was acknowledged by
WhatsApp that this would indeed be possible. WhatsApp does not object to the
publication of this paper.
1.1
Related Work
Password-protected secret sharing (PPSS) [3,21] allows a user to share a secret
value among a number of servers and later retrieve it using a partial set of the
servers (in the event that one or more servers become compromised or unavail-
able) if and only if the password used during retrieval is the same as the one
4 The existing formal analysis of the OPAQUE protocol [23] assumes hash domain
separation in 2HashDH and hence does not apply to the version of OPAQUE in the
most recent Internet Draft [6].

334
G. T. Davies et al.
used during the sharing step. This primitive has been analyzed in the UC frame-
work [8,21], and several constructions based on oblivious pseudorandom func-
tions (OPRF) exist (an overview can be found in [11]).
The WhatsApp approach can be viewed as a one-out-of-one version of PPSS,
where WhatsApp’s HSM is the only server. This makes comparisons with work on
PPSS diﬃcult: we need to model corruption of the WhatsApp communication
server (but not the HSM) and assess security in this context, something that
prior models that do not split the server’s role cannot capture. Nonetheless, our
formalization of PPKR in the UC model takes great inspiration from existing
functionalities for PPSS [21].
Beyond PPSS, there are several works that aim at bootstrapping encryption
keys (or symmetric encryptions directly) from user passwords with the assistance
of a server. Updatable oblivious key management [22] relies on server assistance
to let a user derive ﬁle-speciﬁc encryption keys from a password, while requiring
strong user authentication. The distributed password-authenticated symmetric
encryption scheme DPaSE [15] aims for the same, while relying on the assistance
of several servers but not requiring user authentication. Like the WBP, all the
above schemes rely on OPRFs to shield passwords from curious servers, but none
of them aims to provide a restriction in the number of guessing attempts after
the compromise of the server, which the WBP aims for.
Password-hardened encryption services [7,26] let users outsource the encryp-
tion to a fully trusted frontend server. The protocols do not require OPRFs and
can hence provide better throughput, at the cost of revealing the user’s password
to the frontend server.
2
Preliminaries
Notation. We denote the security parameter as λ. For any λ ∈N let 1λ be the
unary representation of λ and let [ℓ] = {1, . . . , ℓ}. We write x
$←−S to indicate
that we choose an element x uniformly at random from set S. For a probabilistic
polynomial-time algorithm A we deﬁne y
$←−A(x1, . . . , xℓ) as the execution of A
(with fresh random coins) on input x1, . . . , xℓand assigning the output to y.
We use records of form ⟨x1, x2, x3⟩for bookkeeping in our formal arguments.
For convenience, we introduce a notation that combines retrieval and assignment
of such records, i.e., when retrieving ⟨value, ∗, ∗⟩, we retrieve a record that con-
tains the value value in the ﬁrst ﬁeld and arbitrary values in the second and third
ﬁeld (denoted by a wildcard symbol ∗). Additionally, we use brackets to indi-
cate variable assignment after retrieval, i.e., when retrieving ⟨value, [x2], [x3]⟩, we
retrieve the record holding the value value in its ﬁrst entry and assign the second
and third entry to the variables x2 and x3, respectively.
Cryptographic Building Blocks and Their Security. Due to the lack of space,
we do not recap deﬁnitions of standard cryptographic building blocks and their
security. We refer to the full version [17] for formal deﬁnitions.

Security Analysis of the WhatsApp End-to-End Encrypted Backup Protocol
335
3
E2EE Backups in WhatsApp
In this section, we give a detailed description of the WBP. Our presentation is
based on a whitepaper published by WhatsApp [31], a public security assessment
of the backup system conducted by NCC Group [18], and personal correspon-
dence with WhatsApp (Meta) staﬀ[1].
We will start with a simpliﬁed explanation of the overall protocol layout in
Sect. 3.1 to give a high-level overview of its main idea. Then, to prepare the
detailed protocol description, we will discuss the creation of a communication
channel between clients and the backup server via the WhatsApp client regis-
tration protocol in Sect. 3.2. In Sect. 3.3, we elaborate on how WhatsApp uses
HSMs; in Sect. 3.4, we outline how these HSMs outsource storage to servers that
are considered untrusted. In Sect. 3.5, we then provide a detailed description of
the actual WBP. We conclude with Sect. 3.6, where we describe how a mali-
cious server can increase the admissible number of password guesses in certain
settings.
3.1
High-Level Protocol Overview
There are four entities in the system: the user, a WhatsApp client running on
the user’s device, the WhatsApp server, and the HSM that only the WhatsApp
server can communicate with. We will now focus on the latter three. In this
high-level overview, we simplify by describing the WhatsApp server as merely
relaying messages between the HSM and the client. In the actual WBP protocol
it additionally authenticates clients and stores ﬁles encrypted by the HSM. As
the encryption and outsourced storage of the data at a cloud provider is done
using symmetric encryption, we focus on the initialization and recovery of the
encryption key from a password.
Initialization. When activating WhatsApp’s E2EE backups for the ﬁrst time,
the client chooses a backup key K to encrypt the chat history and the WBP key
initialization phase is executed (see Fig. 1). To this end, the client ﬁrst runs the
OPAQUE protocol with the HSM, which takes a password pw from the client
and a key KOPRF from the HSM as inputs. It then outputs a key Kexport to the
client5 and the “envelope” env to the HSM. This envelope is encrypted under
the key Kexport (which is derived using both pw and KOPRF) and contains freshly
chosen key material of the client that is used during recovery to perform, e.g., a
Diﬃe–Hellman key exchange, among other things.
5 The option to derive this additional key was originally not part of OPAQUE [23].
However, it exists in the OPAQUE Internet Draft version 03 [25], which is deployed
by the WBP.

336
G. T. Davies et al.
Client(pw, pkHSM)
Server
HSM(skHSM)
OPAQUE
Init
pw
KOPRF
Kexport
env
KOPRF
$←−{0, 1}λ
K
$←−{0, 1}λ
e
$←−Enc(Kexport, K)
E
$←−Enc(pkHSM, e)
E
e ←Dec(skHSM, E)
ctr ←10
output K
store (env, e, KOPRF, ctr)
Fig. 1. The WBP key initialization, high-level layout. The value KOPRF is freshly chosen
by the HSM for each initialization request.
To conclude initialization, the client encrypts the backup key K ﬁrst under
the symmetric key Kexport and then under the HSM’s public encryption key
pkHSM, and sends the result E to the HSM. The HSM removes the outer encryp-
tion layer and stores the encrypted backup key e, the OPAQUE envelope env, the
key KOPRF, and a counter ctr initialized with 10 that tracks password guessing
attempts.
Key Recovery. If the client has lost their client device (and thus lost their backup
key K), they can re-authenticate their new client device with WhatsApp (via
a challenge-response protocol that takes place after re-installing the WhatsApp
application), and subsequently start the recovery part of the WBP depicted in
Fig. 2.
The ﬁrst step of the recovery phase is that client and HSM engage in the key
exchange phase of the OPAQUE protocol. To this end, the client uses a value
pw′ as input and the HSM contributes the values KOPRF and env as established
during the initialization phase. If the password pw′ entered by the client is equal
to the password pw during initialization, the OPAQUE protocol guarantees that
(1) the client recovers the former export key ¯Kexport = Kexport and (2) both client
and HSM derive the same value shk′ = shk. However, if pw′ ̸= pw, the client will
have to abort instead.
The HSM decrements its counter for attempted password guesses each time
a recovery procedure is initiated. If the client can convince the HSM that it has
computed the same value shk′ = shk (via a key conﬁrmation), the HSM will learn
that the entered password pw′ was indeed correct and hence reset its counter to
ten and send the stored ciphertext c to the client. Lastly, the client can use the
derived ¯Kexport to decrypt the ciphertext c and recover their backup key K. This
concludes the high-level overview of the cryptographic core of the WBP.
3.2
Client Registration
The WBP essentially relies on a communication channel between clients and
the backup server, which is realized in an indirect way. Upon installing the

Security Analysis of the WhatsApp End-to-End Encrypted Backup Protocol
337
Client(pw′, pkHSM)
Server
HSM(skHSM)
OPAQUE
KE
pw′
env, KOPRF
¯Kexport, shk′
shk
shk key conﬁrmation
c
retrieve (env, e, KOPRF, ctr)
lock client if ctr = 0
ctr ←ctr −1
ctr ←10
c
$←−Enc(shk, e)
e ←Dec(shk′, c)
K ←Dec( ¯Kexport, e)
output K
Fig. 2. The WBP key recovery, high-level layout.
WhatsApp application, the main WhatsApp server sets up a mutually authenti-
cated channel with each new client. In the WhatsApp ecosystem this is done
by a server called ChatD, which is physically distinct form the WhatsApp
server handling the WBP. We decided to view all WhatsApp servers as a single
WhatsApp server entity, since a distinction would make the already complex
protocol description and security analysis unnecessarily more complex without
providing additional insight.6
That is, at ﬁrst, a secure channel is set up between the client and WhatsApp
using the Noise framework [28]. Then WhatsApp uses SMS authentication to
verify that the phone number it received via the freshly set up Noise channel
belongs to the client. Upon conclusion, the client stores WhatsApp’s public key
pkNoise
WA
and WhatsApp stores the freshly generated client’s public key pkNoise
IDC
together with a unique client identiﬁer IDC. Subsequently, the WhatsApp server
handles all incoming client requests via the Noise channel and also mediates the
WBP messages between the client and the backup service.
Client with phone number no
WhatsApp server
Noise Pipe Setup-
-
no via Noise Pipe
choose IDC
nSMS via SMS
nSMS
$←−{0, 1}λ
-
n′
SMS via Noise Pipe
if n′
SMS ̸= nSMS
return Fail
return pkNoise
WA
else return (pkNoise
IDC , IDC)
Fig. 3. The WhatsApp client registration that is independent from the WBP. Upon
conclusion, the client can be identiﬁed via a unique identiﬁer IDC, and both client and
server are mutually authenticated.
6 For example, we want a corruption of the WhatsApp server to model a malicious
WhatsApp service provider, and therefore we want to consider the entire service as
corrupted in this case, without a need to distinguish between the ChatD and the
backup server.

338
G. T. Davies et al.
3.3
Hardware Security Modules
The WBP deploys HSMs as a core component of their PPKR protocol. Intu-
itively, an HSM is a hardware device that can be programmed once with code
and then “locked” in such a way that it is infeasible to change its code after-
wards. After the HSMs are set up they hence serve as an incorruptible entity
in the backup ecosystem. In the WBP, the HSM performs most cryptographic
relevant computations on the “WhatsApp side” (with minor computations per-
formed by a diﬀerent, non-HSM WhatsApp “main server”) and is responsible
for coordinating the secure storage of backup keys.
Trusted Setup Ceremony. For the HSM to serve as an incorruptible entity in
the system, it must be ensured that (1) its secret key material is not leaked and
that (2) its code cannot be modiﬁed after setup. This is usually ensured via a
process called trusted setup ceremony or key ceremony. During such a ceremony,
a ceremony leader essentially unpacks new modules, sets them up with program
code, and generates fresh key material for the HSM (where public keys are copied
and secret keys remain secret). After setup, the HSM’s “programming key” is
destroyed, ensuring that it cannot be modiﬁed after the ceremony has taken
place. The public key material of the HSM is hard-coded into the WhatsApp
application [18]. Naturally, this procedure can only be trusted if it was executed
faithfully. For the remainder of this work we assume that the setup ceremony
was conducted such that
– the following key material has been generated
• a symmetric encryption key KEnc
HSM
$←−{0, 1}λ,
• a signature key pair (skSig
HSM, pkSig
HSM)
$←−Σ.KeyGen(1λ),
• a public-key encryption key pair (skEnc
HSM, pkEnc
HSM)
$←−PKE.KeyGen(1λ),
• a static Diﬃe–Hellman key pair (skDH
HSM, pkDH
HSM)
$←−DH.KeyGen(1λ);
– the HSM uses the secret key material to execute the WBP’s computations
via predeﬁned interfaces for each protocol step;
– the HSM can only be queried by a WhatsApp server, and only via the speciﬁed
interfaces. In particular, the HSM does not leak any of its secret key material.
We remark that the HSM solution deployed by WhatsApp consists of multiple
HSMs, which ensures that user cannot get locked out of their backup if an HSM
breaks down. All HSMs are set up such that they coordinate their state changes
via a consensus protocol, ensuring that each HSM behaves in the same manner
towards a user [1]. Without loss of generality, we treat this set of HSMs as a
single HSM entity. The analysis of the HSM consensus protocol is beyond the
scope of this work.

Security Analysis of the WhatsApp End-to-End Encrypted Backup Protocol
339
3.4
Secure Outsourced Storage
One might be tempted to store sensitive data along with key material in an
HSM. However, storing data in the internal memory of an HSM is very expen-
sive and limited in capacity. Thus, the internal storage of an HSM is not viable to
store large quantities of sensitive data for millions or billions of users. Therefore
WhatsApp uses storage fully controlled by the WhatsApp server. The HSM uses
a dedicated symmetric encryption key KEnc
HSM
$←−{0, 1}λ which is used for authen-
ticated encryption, and this essentially ensures conﬁdentiality and integrity of
stored records. Whenever the HSM requests a stored record, it decrypts the
record and veriﬁes its integrity before processing it. In addition, a Merkle tree
based protocol is deployed to “tie” the encrypted records together and to prevent
a replay of old state records that were previously deleted by the HSM. Whenever
the WhatsApp server provides an encrypted record to the HSM, it also has to
provide a proof (using the Merkle tree) that this ciphertext is consistent with
the current state of the encrypted database. The HSM veriﬁes this against a
locally stored root of the Merkle tree. If this veriﬁcation fails, the HSM rejects
the record. A formal analysis of this mechanism is beyond the scope of our work.
Therefore we model the interaction of the HSM with the outsourced storage
mechanism via function calls, which are deﬁned as follows.
– sec store(id, data) takes as input a unique identiﬁer id and to-be-stored data
value data. It encrypts the data using the approach described above. The
record can be identiﬁed via id.
– sec retr(id) takes as input an identiﬁer id and retrieves the record associated
with identiﬁer id. The returned record is processed as described above.
– sec delete(id) takes as input an identiﬁer id and “tombstones” the record asso-
ciated with identiﬁer id, in that its existing data is overwritten with the infor-
mation that is has been deleted.
– For brevity, we deﬁne one additional function call that allows the HSM to
change counter values. sec set ctr(id, ctr) takes as input an identiﬁer id and an
integer ctr with 0 ≤ctr ≤10. It takes the record associated with identiﬁer id
and sets the corresponding counter to the value ctr. Integrity and authenticity
is ensured via the process described above.
Should any of the function calls fail (e.g., due to a non-existing record or a
failed integrity check), the respective function call would return an error symbol
⊥. We assume that this mechanism provides secure outsourced storage for the
HSM, which is immutable for any entity but the HSM.

340
G. T. Davies et al.
3.5
WhatsApp Backup Protocol (WBP) Description
The detailed descriptions of the WBP’s key initialization and recovery phases
are depicted in Fig. 4 and Fig. 5, respectively. As already discussed in Sect. 3.1,
the WBP builds on the OPAQUE Internet Draft v3 [25], the steps of which
are highlighted in the ﬁgures. For a comparison of these OPAQUE steps with
[25], we refer to the full version [17]. Note that the ﬁgures include events like
return(Interface, value). These can bee seen as messages delivered to higher-
level application processes, which, e.g., output a successfully established sym-
metric backup key to be used for backing up the actual data. We make these
calls explicit since they will also appear in parts of our security model.
Participants. There are three participants in the protocol. Client refers to the
WhatsApp client application of a user with unique identiﬁer IDC. The client is
Client with phone number IDC
Server
HSM
pw, pkHSM = {pkSig
HSM, pkEnc
HSM, pkDH
HSM}
acc[ ] ←{}
skHSM = {skSig
HSM, skEnc
HSM, skDH
HSM, KEnc
HSM}
On input (InitC, pw):
K
$←−{0, 1}λ
(pkC, skC)
$←−DH.KeyGen(1λ)
r1
$←−Zp
a1 ←H1(pw)r1
r
a1
return (InitC, IDC)
On input (InitS, IDC):
choose fresh aidnew ∈{0, 1}∗
set aidold ←acc[IDC]
set acc[IDC] ←aidnew
-
(InitS, aidnew, aidold,a1 )sec delete(aidold)
if sec retr(aidnew) is successful
return

(InitResult, aidnew, Fail)
(InitResult, IDC, Fail)
else :
KPRF
aidnew
$←−Zp
b1 ←a
KPRF
aidnew
1
n1
$←−{0, 1}λ
if Σ.Vfy(pkSig
HSM; b1 ∥n1; σ1) ̸= 1 b1 , n1, σ1

aidnew,b1 , n1, σ1
σ1
$←−
Σ.Sign(skSig
HSM, b1 ∥n1)
return (InitResult, Fail)
trHSM ←H3(a1, b1, n1)
else :
y ←H2(pw, b1/r1
1
)
ne
$←−{0, 1}λ
(Kexport, Kmask, Kauth) ←KDF1(y, ne)
e cred ←skC ⊕Kmask
Te ←MAC.Tag(Kauth, pkDH
HSM ∥ne ∥e cred)
trC ←H3(a1, b1, n1)
e
$←−AE.Enc(Kexport, K)
m ←e ∥trC∥pkC ∥e cred ∥ne ∥Te
E
$←−PKE.Enc(pkEnc
HSM; m)
r
E
-
(File, aidnew, E)
m ←PKE.Dec(skEnc
HSM; E)
CleanUp
parse
return (InitResult, K)
m = e ∥trC∥pkC ∥e cred ∥ne ∥Te
if trC ̸= trHSM : out ←Fail
else :
m′ ←e∥pkC ∥e cred ∥ne ∥Te
ctr ←10
sec store(aidnew, (KPRF
aidnew, m′, ctr))

(InitResult, aidnew, out) out ←Succ
return
(InitResult, IDC, out)
Fig. 4. The WBP initialization. Light blue boxes indicate 2HashDH instructions of
OPAQUE; dark gray boxes denote other OPAQUE instructions; non-colored parts
were added by WhatsApp.
r
a
is the IDC-authenticated transmission of a.

Security Analysis of the WhatsApp End-to-End Encrypted Backup Protocol
341
Client with phone number IDC
Server
HSM
pw′, pkHSM = {pkSig
HSM, pkEnc
HSM, pkDH
HSM}
acc
skHSM = {skSig
HSM, skEnc
HSM, skDH
HSM, KEnc
HSM}
On input (RecC, pw′):
r2
$←−Zp, a2 ←H1(pw′)r2
nC
$←−{0, 1}λ
( ¯pkC, ¯skC)
$←−DH.KeyGen(1λ)
r
nC , ¯pkC ,a2
return (RecC, IDC)
On input (RecS, IDC):
if acc[IDC] unset:
return (RecResult, IDC, Fail)
else :
set aid ←acc[IDC]
-
(RecS, aid,nC , ¯pkC ,a2 )(KPRF
aid , m′, ctr) ←sec retr(aid)
if no record can be found:
return

(RecResult, aid, Fail)
(RecResult, IDC, Fail)
else :
if ctr = 0: sec delete(aid)
return

(DelRec, aid)
(DelRec, IDC)
else :
parse m′ = e∥pkC ∥e cred ∥ne ∥Te
set ctr′ ←(ctr −1)
sec set ctr(aid, ctr′)
b2 ←a
KPRF
aid
2
,nS
$←−{0, 1}λ
( ¯pkS, ¯skS)
$←−DH.KeyGen
ikm ←( ¯pk
¯skS
C , ¯pk
skDH
HSM
C
, pkC
¯skS)
pre ←(a2, nc, ¯pkC, pkDH
HSM, e cred, ne, Te, b2, nS, ¯pkS)
(KMAC
S
, KMAC
C
, shk) ←KDF2(ikm, pre)
TS ←MAC.Tag(KMAC
S
, H3(pre))
σ2
$←−Σ.Sign(skSig
HSM, b2)
if
Σ.Vfy(pkSig
HSM; b2; σ2) ̸= 1
b2 ,e cred, ne, Te ,
nS , ¯pkS, TS ,σ2

aid,b2 ,e cred, ne, Te ,
nS , ¯pkS, TS , σ2
return (RecResult, Fail)
else :
y ←H2(pw, b1/r2
2
)
(Kexport, Kmask, Kauth) ←KDF1(y, ne)
T ′
e ←MAC.Tag(Kauth, pkDH
HSM ∥ne ∥e cred)
if T ′
e ̸= Te return (RecResult, Fail)
else :
skC ←e cred ⊕Kmask
pre ←(a2, nc, ¯pkC, pkDH
HSM, e cred, ne, Te, b2, nS, ¯pkS)
ikm ←( ¯pk
¯skC
S
, pkDH
HSM
¯skC, ¯pk
skC
S
)
(KMAC
S
, KMAC
C
, shk) ←KDF2(ikm, pre)
T ′
S ←MAC.Tag(KMAC
S
, H3(pre))
if T ′
S ̸= TS return (RecResult, Fail)
else :
T ′
C ←MAC.Tag(KMAC
C
, H3(pre, T ′
S))
r
T ′
C
-
(RecResult, aid,T ′
C ) TC ←MAC.Tag(KMAC
C
, H3(pre ∥TS))
if T ′
C ̸= TC:
return

(RecResult, aid, Fail)
(RecResult, IDC, Fail)
else :
sec set ctr (aid, 10)
e ←AE.Dec(shk, c)

c

aid, c
c
$←−AE.Enc(shk, e)
if e = ⊥:
return
CleanUp, return (RecResult, Fail)
(RecResult, IDC, Succ)
else :
K
$←−AE.Dec(Kexport , e)
CleanUp, return (RecResult, K)
Fig. 5. The WBP key recovery. Light blue boxes indicate 2HashDH instructions of
OPAQUE; light gray boxes mark 3DH of OPAQUE; dark gray boxes denote other
OPAQUE instructions; non-colored parts were added by WhatsApp.
r
a
is the IDC-
authenticated transmission of a.

342
G. T. Davies et al.
in possession of the HSM’s public key, which is composed of a public key for a
signature scheme pkSig
HSM, an encryption public key pkEnc
HSM, and a static Diﬃe–
Hellman public key pkDH
HSM. Those keys are hard-coded into the WhatsApp client
and thus authenticated.
The server is run by WhatsApp and it mostly relays messages between clients
and the HSM. For this it communicates with the client via the previously estab-
lished IDC-authenticated channel (see Fig. 3) and with the HSM directly through
a TLS channel. The server also maintains an array acc[·] of identiﬁer pairs
(IDC, aid), which “tie” a so-called account identiﬁer aid (described below) to
the client identiﬁer IDC. If some IDC is not contained in acc, we let acc[IDC] = ⊥.
As already described in Sect. 3.4, the server also acts as an external (untrusted)
storage medium for the HSM.
Finally the HSM is (a trusted entity that is) in possession of the secret keys
skSig
HSM, skEnc
HSM, skDH
HSM corresponding to the respective public keys, as well as a key
KEnc
HSM that is used to encrypt records stored on the server (see Sect. 3.3).
Dealing with Unexpected Protocol Messages. We assume that the client, the
server, and the HSM ignore messages that are sent out-of-order, i.e., messages
that the party expects at a diﬀerent point in the protocol execution. The ﬁrst
messages of an initialization (i.e., a1) and recovery (i.e., (nC, ¯pkC, a2)) can be
sent anytime, leading to the parties deleting all temporary data of the non-
ﬁnished initialization/recovery and starting with a new initialization/recovery.
This implies that there is never more than one initialization/recovery running
at a time.
Key Initialization. A user with password pw and IDC initializes the backup as
follows. On input of pw, the WhatsApp client app ﬁrst chooses a uniformly
random backup key K that can be used for encrypting the backups and which
is going to be preserved via WBP. Next, it samples a Diﬃe–Hellman key-pair
(pkC, skC) that will be used later in the OPAQUE key exchange step. Executing
the 2HashDH OPRF protocol [20] with the HSM, the client samples r1
$←−Zp
uniformly at random. This is then used to blind the password pw by computing
a1 ←H1(pw)r1 using a hash function H1 : {0, 1}∗→G. The client sends a1 to
the server over the IDC-authenticated channel.
Upon receiving a1 from IDC, the server chooses a fresh aidnew ∈{0, 1}∗that
is called “account identiﬁer” by WhatsApp7 and checks if the client with IDC
has ever initiated the protocol and thus has already an aid in its array acc. If
so, it sets aidold ←acc[IDC] and acc[IDC] ←aidnew, otherwise it sets aidold = ⊥.
Finally, the server sends aidnew, aidold, a1 to the HSM. Observe that the HSM
never receives any identifying information (e.g., IDC) about the clients other
than the value aid. That is, the HSM is not aware of the concept of a client IDC.
7 We remark that this terminology is slightly misleading, as aid does not identify a
client’s account but is rather a “backup identiﬁer”. If the same client initializes many
backups, possibly with diﬀerent passwords, then each backup will be assigned a new
aid and only the most recent backup is kept.

Security Analysis of the WhatsApp End-to-End Encrypted Backup Protocol
343
Upon receiving the server’s message, the HSM “tombstones” all informa-
tion associated with aidold from its outsourced storage (with the instruction
sec delete(aidold)). Then it checks whether aidnew has ever been used before.8
If it was, then the HSM aborts and outputs aidnew, Fail to the server. If the
HSM sees aidnew for the ﬁrst time, it picks a random key KPRF
aidnew
$←−Zp for that
speciﬁc aidnew to be used in the 2HashDH OPRF. The HSM then uses the client’s
blinded password a1 to compute b1 ←a
KPRF
aidnew
1
. Furthermore, the HSM samples a
nonce n1
$←−{0, 1}λ uniformly at random and signs b1 ∥n1 under its secret key
skSig
HSM. Finally, it computes a transcript hash trHSM of the values a1, b1, n1 with a
hash function H3 : {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}λ, and sends back aidnew, b1, n1 together with
the resulting signature σ1 to the server, which relays b1, n1, σ1 to the client.
After receiving the HSM’s message from the server, the client ﬁrst veriﬁes
σ1 using pkSig
HSM and aborts if the veriﬁcation fails. Otherwise, it unblinds the
server’s response b1 using the randomness r1 and derives the OPRF output
y ←H2(pw, b1/r1
1
) with hash function H2 : {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}λ. Next, further keys
Kexport, Kmask, Kauth are derived from the OPRF output y with the help of a key
derivation function KDF1. The obtained keys are used as follows. Kmask is used
as an XOR mask to obtain e cred, hiding the client’s Diﬃe-Hellman secret skC.
Kauth is used to compute a MAC tag Te over pkDH
HSM ∥ne ∥e cred, where ne is
a randomly sampled nonce of length λ. Finally, Kexport is used to encrypt K to
produce the envelope9 e ←AE.Enc(Kexport, K). Similarly to the HSM, the client
also computes a transcript hash trC ←H3(a1, b1, n1) and compose a message
m ←e ∥trC ∥pkC ∥e cred ∥ne ∥Te, which is then encrypted under the HSM’s
public key (E ←PKE.Enc(pkEnc
HSM, m)) to hide its content from the intermediary
server. The encrypted envelope E is sent to the server over the IDC-authenticated
channel. The client runs CleanUp to delete all assigned variables and received
messages10 (including r1, skC) and outputs the backup key K.
Upon receiving E from a client with IDC, the server looks up acc[IDC] ←
aidnew and forwards aidnew, E to the HSM. After receiving the message, the HSM
decrypts E and checks whether the received transcript hash trC matches its own
view of the transcript (trHSM). If the transcripts do not match, it aborts sending
aidnew, Fail to the server that outputs IDC, Fail. In case of matching transcripts,
the HSM initializes a counter ctr that aims to track the unsuccessful key recovery
attempts and stores in the secure storage the tuple (aidnew, KPRF
aidnew, e∥pkC∥e cred∥
ne ∥Te, ctr). Finally, it informs the server about the successful completion of the
initialization phase by sending aidnew, Succ that outputs IDC, Succ concluding
the key initialization.
8 To this end, the HSM tries to retrieve a backup associated with aidnew from the
secure storage. If aidnew is currently in use, this will succeed. If aidnew was previously
used but corresponds to an already deleted backup, an empty “tombstoned” backup
is returned to the HSM, showing that aidnew is not fresh.
9 Note that the WBP’s envelope is not equivalent to an OPAQUE envelope.
10 We note that the abstract CleanUp instruction might be implemented without any
explicit deletion, e.g., by keeping these ephemeral values only in volatile memory
and never storing them persistently.

344
G. T. Davies et al.
Key Recovery. The goal of the WBP recovery phase is to enable users, who do
not have access anymore to their backup key K, to recover it using the password
they entered during key initialization. On input of pw′, the WhatsApp client app
ﬁrst prepares its input r2, a2 to the 2HashDH OPRF the same way as during
initialization, samples an ephemeral Diﬃe–Hellman key-pair ( ¯pkC, ¯skC) for the
3DH protocol, and also samples a uniformly random nonce nC. Then nC, ¯pkC, a2
are sent to the server over the IDC-authenticated channel.
Upon receiving the client’s message, the server checks the array acc and
if it does not contain IDC, then it aborts because no user with the identiﬁer
IDC initialized any backup keys. Otherwise, it attaches the account identiﬁer
aid ←acc[IDC] to the client’s message and sends these to the HSM.
When receiving the server’s message, the HSM retrieves the record from
the secure storage that is indexed by aid. If no such record is found, it returns
failure to the server. Otherwise the HSM retrieves the record containing the
per-client OPRF-key KPRF
aid , the current counter value ctr, and m′ that is parsed
as m′ = e ∥pkC ∥e cred ∥ne ∥Te. If ctr = 0, then the HSM deletes the record
indexed with aid from the storage and informs the server of this. If ctr > 0,
then its value is decreased by one and the stored record for aid is updated
with the new ctr value. Next, as in the key initialization phase, the HSM com-
putes b2 ←aKPRF
aid
2
as a step of 2HsahDH. After sampling a uniformly random
nonce nS, the execution of the 3DH protocol steps follows. The HSM sam-
ples an ephemeral Diﬃe–Hellman key pair ( ¯pkS, ¯skS) and computes three shared
Diﬃe–Hellman secrets: ¯pk
¯skS
C , ¯pk
skDH
HSM
C
, pk
¯skS
C . Using these shared secrets and the
preamble pre, which is essentially a concatenation of the full protocol transcript
(a2, nc, ¯pkC, pkDH
HSM, e cred, ne, Te, b2, nS, ¯pkS), it derives the keys KMAC
S
, KMAC
C
,
and shk from a key derivation function KDF2. Finally, with KMAC
S
it computes a
MAC tag TS over the hashed preamble, signs b2 with skSig
HSM to get signature σ2
and sends its response composed of aid, b2, e cred, ne, Te, nS, ¯pkS, TS, σ2 to the
server, who removes aid from the message and forwards the rest to the client.
After receiving the HSM’s response from the server, the client ﬁrst veri-
ﬁes the signature σ2 and aborts if the veriﬁcation fails. It then again derives
the keys Kexport, Kmask, Kauth and veriﬁes the MAC Te that was created dur-
ing the initialization. If the veriﬁcation failed, it aborts. Otherwise it con-
tinues to reconstruct skC by unmasking e cred with Kmask and then to
derive the keys KMAC
S
, KMAC
C
, shk from the three shared Diﬃe–Hellman secrets
¯pk
¯skC
S , skDH
HSM
¯skC, ¯pk
skC
S
and the preamble pre. Using KMAC
S
it veriﬁes the MAC TS
and aborts if this is not successful. Otherwise the client computes MAC T ′
C over
a hash of pre ∥TS with the key KMAC
C
, which it then sends to the server through
the IDC-authenticated channel.
After attaching aid to T ′
C, the server forwards these values to the HSM. Since
the HSM knows all values for computing the MAC tag that it has just received,
it can verify the MAC. Note that with the MAC veriﬁcation it essentially checks
whether pw = pw′. If the MAC veriﬁcation fails, it aborts, otherwise it resets the

Security Analysis of the WhatsApp End-to-End Encrypted Backup Protocol
345
counter ctr to 10. Finally, the HSM encrypts e using shk and sends the resulting
ciphertext c and aid to the server who forwards c to the client.
As the ﬁnal steps of the recovery phase, the client ﬁrst decrypts c to obtain
e (it aborts if the AE decryption fails) and then decrypts e using the key Kexport
to obtain the backup key K. As in case of the initialization, before returning
any output, the client always deletes all assigned variables and received messages
(including shk, skC ¯skC, r2).
3.6
Extending the Number of Password Guesses
As we already noted in the protocol description in Sect. 3.5, the WBP only
authenticates the client towards the server but not towards the HSM. The usage
of the so-called “account identiﬁer” aid aims to bridge this gap. The way it is
used ensures that the HSM always associates every recovery request from the
same IDC with the same unique aid that was assigned for this IDC during its last
successful key initialization request. Furthermore, the HSM only keeps records
of the last key initialization of a user under the aid that was assigned to the
corresponding IDC during this last initialization. Recall that in order to limit
the number of password guesses against some account, each password guess has
to be associated with the targeted account. It turns out that this cannot be
guaranteed in case of the WBP when the server is malicious. The reason for this
is that the server is in charge of assigning aids for IDCs, and neither the client
nor the HSM can check this because the former never sees their assigned aid,
and the latter never learns the IDC of clients. This allows the server to increase
the number of password guesses in certain cases.
We demonstrate the attack with an example. Let us assume that some client
with identity IDC has already initialized a key and the HSM stored the corre-
sponding record under aid. Now if the same client runs key initialization again
with the same password,11 the server is assumed to instruct the HSM to delete
the previous record by setting aidold ←aid. However, the execution of this step
completely depends on the server acting honestly. A malicious server might how-
ever proceed as if it has never seen IDC before and make the HSM store qI records
for IDC, if the client with IDC runs the key initialisation qI times. If the client
used the same password pw all qI times, the malicious server will have 10qI pass-
word guessing opportunities, since it knows all the qI aids that are associated
with IDC’s records.
Mitigating the Attack. If the transcripts trHSM and trC contained information
about the client identity IDC, in a way that both the client and the HSM can
verify this, then they would be able to notice if the server is dishonest about the
client identity. However, note that this countermeasure is very diﬃcult to deploy
retroactively, since any changes in the programming of the HSM would require
the setup ceremony to be performed again.
11 WhatsApp is for mobile devices, connection loss may happen leading to a failure.
After an unsuccessful attempt, the user would most probably re-run initialization,
likely with the same password.

346
G. T. Davies et al.
Client
Server
-
InitC : pw

InitS
PPKR
initialization

InitResult : K
-
RecC : pw′

RecS
PPKR
recovery
RecResult :
-
RecResult :
K if pw = pw′, else Fail
Succ if pw = pw′, else Fail
Fig. 6. Schematic overview of password-protected key retrieval with initialization on
top and recovery at the bottom, already using the interface names of our functionality
FPPKR. In both phases, the server does not provide any particular input but still has to
participate in the protocol for the client to successfully initialize and recover a key K,
which is modeled in the ideal functionality by letting it provide the InitS and RecS
messages.
4
Password-Protected Key Retrieval
In this section we give a formal deﬁnition of password-protected key retrieval
(PPKR) in terms of an ideal functionality. For the unfamiliar reader, we provide
a short introduction to the basic UC framework in the full version [17].
The Cryptographic Abstraction of the WBP. We introduce the concept of a
password-protected key retrieval (PPKR) protocol, which is a 2-party protocol
executed by a client and a server. (Note that in the WBP protocol, this client is
the user’s WhatsApp client and this server is the combination of the WhatsApp
server and the HSM.) A PPKR protocol consists of two phases: (1) an initial-
ization phase, where the client generates a symmetric encryption key and, using
a password, securely stores it with a server, and (2) a recovery phase, where the
client can recover their symmetric encryption key using a password.
The server may neither learn any information about the client’s password, nor
their key from these interactions, but only whether a recovery was successful.
To provide a high-level intuition, we depict the input-output behavior of the
PPKR functionality in Fig. 6. Besides this, we demand several properties from a
PPKR scheme that seem relevant for such a primitive in practice. These include
protection against online and oﬄine dictionary attacks, and that it provides
cryptographically strong encryption keys.
Remark 1. We note here that alternative modelings are possible. For example,
one could case-tailor the deﬁnition to the WhatsApp setting and formulate a
variant of PPKR with three parties: the client, the server, and the HSM. How-
ever, our notion with only two parties is more versatile: it can be used to ana-
lyze protocols where the server relies on an HSM, as well as protocols where
the server acts on its own, or relies on arbitrarily many other entities, such as

Security Analysis of the WhatsApp End-to-End Encrypted Backup Protocol
347
a cloud provider, oﬄine storage, etc. The reason why this is possible is that
usage of such “helpers” is well integrated into the UC framework [9] through
the notion of so-called hybrid functionalities, which can be modularly “plugged”
into protocol descriptions without “spilling” into the deﬁnition of the underlying
primitive.
Expected Security Properties. We now describe which security properties we
intuitively expect from a PPKR scheme, and thus want to formalize in an ideal
PPKR functionality FPPKR. The key K that is generated in a PPKR scheme
should be usable without restrictions in any other application, thus we require
that K is indistinguishable from random. Note that in particular this implies
that neither the server nor the adversary can inﬂuence the generation of K
in any way. Moreover, we expect K to remain secret from everyone but the
client that computed it throughout the lifetime of the PPKR protocol. Hence,
FPPKR should leak no information on the key, and any output given by FPPKR
to the server or the adversary must be independent from K, unless the server
gets corrupted and correctly guesses the client’s password. In order to limit
the ability to guess passwords via dictionary attacks, we expect FPPKR to (1)
not leak any information about a password used by some client to any other
party beyond whether a password used in a recovery is the same as in the
most recent initialization by that client, and (2) allow only a small number of
failed recovery attempts before K is deleted. We further expect that clients
are authenticated towards the server12 and cannot be impersonated by other
clients or the adversary, to ensure that any client’s key remains secret from
all other clients even if they knew the correct password. However, note that
a corrupt server might be able to skip client authentication13 and execute the
protocol on behalf of any client by itself, i.e., without interacting with any client.
Further, we expect that the server is authenticated towards clients and cannot
be impersonated by the adversary.
We summarize the list of expected security properties below.
– Pseudorandomness of K: Honest clients compute pseudorandom keys K,
even if the server acts maliciously.
– Secrecy of K: Initialized and recovered keys of any honest client remain
hidden from even a malicious server as long as the server does not correctly
guess the honest client’s password.
– Uniqueness of K: If the server is honest, initialization of a key K by user
C buries any key that C previously initialized.
12 We leave the concrete means of authentication to the application. In the case of
the WBP, SMS-based authentication is used, creating a one-to-one correspondence
between IDC and phone numbers of WhatsApp users. Other authentication methods
such as biometrics (where IDC would correspond to, e.g., a ﬁngerprint) or even device-
bound strong authentication using signatures are possible as well.
13 We opted for a general treatment here, i.e., allowing client impersonation by the
server. In fact, we could strengthen this (see Sect. 4.2 for more details) but this
depends on which mechanisms on the server side are corruptible.

348
G. T. Davies et al.
– Oblivious passwords: The initialization phase does not leak any informa-
tion about the password to even a malicious server.
– No online dictionary attacks: The recovery phase does not leak any infor-
mation (1) about the password used by the client to even a malicious server,
and (2) about the initialized password to even a malicious client, beyond
whether the password used during recovery matches the one used to create
the backup.
– Limited number of recovery attempts with wrong passwords: Let
K denote the key initialized by honest client C, and assume that C later
runs the recovery phase 10 times consecutively with a wrong password. Then
the server erases all K-dependent information, i.e., K cannot be recovered
anymore. This must hold even if the client becomes maliciously corrupted
after initializing K.
– Limited number of oﬄine guesses: The above guarantee extends to mali-
ciously corrupted servers, i.e., after 10 wrong password guesses to recover any
honestly initialized key K, K is buried and cannot be retrieved by anyone
anymore.14
– Client authentication: Only the client who initialized K or a malicious
server can attempt to recover K. This must hold even if the password used
during initialization becomes publicly known.
– Server authentication: There is only one server in the system and it cannot
be impersonated by the adversary, unless the server gets corrupted.
4.1
A PPKR Functionality
In Figs. 7 and 8 we describe the ideal functionality FPPKR for password-protected
key retrieval. On a high level, FPPKR implements a password protected lookup
table that contains clients’ keys. When some client executes the initialization
phase, an entry for that client is created in the lookup table or updated if
an entry already existed. By executing the recovery phase, clients can access
their entry in the table and recover their key, but only if they pass password
authentication. If they fail password authentication 10 times in a row, FPPKR
“buries the key” by erasing the corresponding table entry of that user. Note
that while FPPKR maintains the table entries using client identiﬁers, FPPKR does
not enforce the initialization and recovery processes to run on the same physical
client machine. In our model, we understand the client’s party identiﬁer as the
identity under which the client device can authenticate. This way, if multiple
devices can authenticate under the same identity (as is possible, e.g., for the
SMS-based authentication in the WBP), InitC and RecC can be called from
diﬀerent machines.
14 Note that the phrasing “any initialized” here reﬂects that the adversary can extend
the number of admissible password guesses, as described in Sect. 3.6. This is nec-
essary to model the security achieved by WhatsApp’s protocol. We will discuss in
Sect. 4.2 how the functionality can be strengthened.

Security Analysis of the WhatsApp End-to-End Encrypted Backup Protocol
349
Next we will explain the interfaces and record keeping of FPPKR. In Figs. 7 and
8 we labeled all instructions for easy referencing. FPPKR interacts with arbitrary
clients and a single server S, where S is encoded in the session identiﬁer sid
(server authentication). The functionality internally maintains diﬀerent types
of records to keep track of ongoing and ﬁnished initialization and recovery phases.
If FPPKR ever tries to retrieve a record that does not exist, it ignores the query
causing this.
Initialization Phase. Whenever a client IDC starts a new initialization, it calls
the InitC interface with the password pw the user has chosen. FPPKR then
(IC.1) generates a fresh key K
$←−{0, 1}λ (ensuring pseudorandomness of
K) for IDC and records that IDC has started a new initialization by creating a
record ⟨InitC, sid, IDC, pw, K⟩(IC.2). This newly created record overwrites any
existing record of type InitC for IDC, which ensures that a client can only have
one ongoing intialization session. Finally, the functionality informs the server S
and the adversary A that the client IDC has started a new initialization (IC.3).
If the server agrees to participate in the initialization with IDC, it calls the
InitS interface, which takes as input two (not necessarily distinct) client iden-
tities IDC and IDC
∗. The additional identity IDC
∗is only eﬀective if the server is
corrupt, and reﬂects that a malicious server can simply ignore client authentica-
tion and claim a diﬀerent identity has authenticated to him. FPPKR now retrieves
the InitC record of IDC, which ensures that the query only proceeds if IDC has
started a new initialization (IS.1). Then it creates a File record containing the
password pw and key K from the retrieved InitC record and, depending on
whether the server is honest or corrupt, either the identity IDC or IDC
∗(IS.2
and IS.3). Thus, a corrupt server can freely choose for which identity the File
record is created, while File records created for an honest server always contain
the same identity as the corresponding InitC record. A newly created record
overwrites any existing record of the same identity to ensure that any key K′
that may have been generated in a previous initialization by IDC cannot be recov-
ered anymore (Uniqueness of the key). However, since a malicious server can
make FPPKR store ﬁles under diﬀerent identities IDC
∗, this guarantee holds only
as long as the server is honest. Indeed, FPPKR allows a malicious server to make
FPPKR store all the password-protected key records that any honest client ever
initialized (see Sect. 4.2 for a discussion of this weakness).
After the server agreed to participate in the initialization with IDC, the adver-
sary may let FPPKR compute the output of the initialization phase for the client
with either the interface CompleteInitC or CompleteInitC-DoS and for the
server with either CompleteInitS or CompleteInitS-DoS. The functionality
does not enforce an order in which the parties receive their output and leaves this
decision to the adversary A. All these interfaces ensure that only one output can
be generated towards client and server for every ongoing initialization session,
by retrieving (CIC.1, CICD.1) and deleting (CIS.1, CISD.1) the corresponding
session records (in the case of CIS.1, the record is not deleted but assigned a
special marking - see below for details). The adversary’s choices are as follows:

350
G. T. Davies et al.
FPPKR is parameterized with a security parameter λ. FPPKR talks to a server S where S is encoded in
sid. FPPKR also talks to the adversary A, and arbitrary clients IDC. If the functionality tries to “re-
trieve a record” that does not exist, it ignores the incoming message. We write txsid[·] for a list of counters.
Oﬄine attacks
On input (MaliciousInit, sid, IDC, pw∗, K∗) from A: // A corrupt server can impersonate an either
honest or corrupt IDC and initialize on his behalf.
MI.1 If S is honest ignore this input.
MI.2 Record ⟨File, sid, IDC, pw∗, K∗⟩, overwriting any existing record ⟨File, sid, IDC, ∗, ∗⟩. Set
txsid[IDC] ←10
On input (MaliciousRec, sid, IDC, pw∗) from A: // Attacking an honest client’s stored key: bury the
key after 10 subsequent wrong password guesses.
MR.1 If S is honest ignore this input. // Server needs to be corrupt to mount an oﬄine attack.
MR.2 Retrieve record ⟨File, sid, IDC, [pw], [K]⟩marked Stored.
MR.3 If txsid[IDC] = 0, delete record ⟨File, sid, IDC, pw, K⟩and output (DelRec, sid, IDC) to A //
The key is buried if zero guesses remain.
MR.4 If pw∗= pw, set txsid[IDC] ←10 and output (sid, K) to A. Otherwise, set txsid[IDC] ←
txsid[IDC] −1 an output (sid, Fail) to A
Initialization phase
On input (InitC, sid, IDC, pw) from IDC (or A if IDC is corrupt): // Client always starts initialization
IC.1 Choose K
$←−{0, 1}λ
IC.2 Record ⟨InitC, sid, IDC, pw, K⟩, overwriting any existing record ⟨InitC, sid, IDC, ∗, ∗⟩// Stor-
ing IDC’s current init state; a client can only be in one initialization session
IC.3 Send (InitC, sid, IDC) to A and to S
On input (InitS, sid, IDC, IDC
∗) from S (or A if S is corrupt): // Server agrees to assist IDC in initializa-
tion. If S is corrupt, A can reroute the initialization to a diﬀerent IDC
∗. Note that IDC
∗does not have
to be the identity of an existing client and can be an arbitrary identity
IS.1 Retrieve ⟨InitC, sid, IDC, [pw], [K]⟩// Continue only if IDC started initialization already
IS.2
If S is honest,
record
⟨File, sid, IDC, pw, K⟩,
overwriting
any
existing
record
⟨File, sid, IDC, ∗, ∗⟩, and send (InitS, sid, IDC) to A // Storing S’s current init state;
the server can only be in one initialization session. Invariant: There is only one key stored
IS.3
Otherwise,
record
⟨File, sid, IDC
∗, pw, K⟩,
overwriting
any
existing
record
⟨File, sid, IDC
∗, ∗, ∗⟩.
On input (CompleteInitC, sid, IDC) from A: // Client completes the protocol and outputs a key
CIC.1 Retrieve record ⟨InitC, sid, IDC, ∗, [K]⟩and delete it
CIC.2 Output (InitResult, sid, K) to IDC (or A if IDC is corrupt)
On input (CompleteInitS, sid, IDC) from A: // Server concludes initialization with ﬁle storage
CIS.1 Retrieve record ⟨File, sid, IDC, ∗, ∗⟩not marked Stored and mark it Stored // Note: there
is only one such record thanks to overwriting in InitS interface. This becomes the stored key
now!
CIS.2 Set txsid[IDC] ←10
CIS.3 Send (InitResult, sid, IDC, Succ) to S (or A if S is corrupt)
Attacks on Initialization Phase
On input (CompleteInitC-DoS, sid, IDC) from A: // DoS attack against IDC, who concludes the
initialization session with failure.
CICD.1 Retrieve record ⟨InitC, sid, IDC, ∗, ∗⟩and delete it
CICD.2 Output (InitResult, sid, Fail) to IDC (or A if IDC is corrupt)
On input (CompleteInitS-DoS, sid, IDC) from A: // DoS attack against the server, such that it
cannot store a ﬁle
CISD.1 Delete any record ⟨File, sid, IDC, ∗, ∗⟩// Server’s state in current initialization session no
longer needed
CISD.2 Send (InitResult, sid, IDC, Fail) to S (or A if S is corrupt)
Fig. 7. Ideal functionality FPPKR for password-protected key retrieval, oﬄine attacks
and initialization interfaces. For a stronger version of FPPKR, boxed code can be dropped
(see Sect. 4.2).

Security Analysis of the WhatsApp End-to-End Encrypted Backup Protocol
351
Recovery Phase
On input (RecC, sid, IDC, pw′) from IDC (or A if IDC is corrupt):
RC.1 Record ⟨RecC, sid, IDC, pw′⟩, overwriting any existing record ⟨RecC, sid, IDC, ∗⟩// Storing
IDC’s current init state; a client can only be in one recovery session.
RC.2 Send (RecC, sid, IDC) to A and S. // S learns which clients started recovery, with the guar-
antee that attempts by honest clients cannot be faked.
On input (RecS, sid, IDC, IDC
∗) from S (or A if S is corrupt): // Server agrees to assist IDC in recovery.
If S is corrupt, A can reroute the recovery to a diﬀerent IDC
∗. Note that IDC
∗does not have to be the
identity of an existing client and can be an arbitrary identity
RS.1 If S is honest, set IDC
′ ←IDC, otherwise set IDC
′ ←IDC
∗
RS.2 Retrieve record ⟨RecC, sid, IDC, [pw′]⟩// Continue only if IDC started recovery already
RS.3 If
there
exists
no
record
⟨File, IDC
′, sid, [pw], [K]⟩
marked
Stored,
send
(RecResult, aid, Fail) to S (or A if S is corrupt). Else retrieve the record. // The
currently stored K and pw (for IDC
′) are used. If IDC
′ re-inits afterwards, it has no eﬀect on
this recovery session.
RS.4 If
txsid[IDC
′]
=
0,
delete
record
⟨File, sid, IDC
′, pw, K⟩
marked
Stored
and
send
(DelRec, sid, IDC
′) to S and A Else continue.
RS.5 Set txsid[IDC
′] ←txsid[IDC
′] −1
RS.6 Append pw
and K
to record ⟨RecC, sid, IDC, pw′⟩, overwriting any existing record
⟨RecC, sid, IDC, ∗, ∗, ∗⟩// The recovery session of IDC is used
RS.7 Send (RecS, sid, IDC
′, pw
?= pw′) to A // A ppKR protocol may not hide whether recovery
was successful or not
On input (CompleteRecC, sid, IDC) from A:
CRC.1 Retrieve record ⟨RecC, sid, IDC, [pw′], [pw], [K]⟩. If record is marked recovered, delete it.
Otherwise, mark it recovered. // Ensures that record can be retrieved twice before deletion.
CRC.2 Determine the output as follows:
(1) If pw = pw′ then set K′ ←K // Recovering the key!
(2) In all other cases, set K′ ←Fail
CRC.3 Send (RecResult, sid, K′) to IDC (or A if IDC is corrupt).
On input (CompleteRecS, sid, IDC) from A// Server ﬁnishes recovery session by learning whether the
password was correct or not:
CRS.1 Retrieve record ⟨RecC, sid, IDC, [pw], [pw′], [K]⟩. If record is marked recovered, delete it.
Otherwise, mark it recovered. // Ensures that record can be retrieved twice before deletion.
CRS.2 If pw = pw′, set txsid[IDC] ←10 and send (RecResult, sid, IDC, Succ) to S.
CRS.3 If pw ̸= pw′, then send (RecResult, sid, IDC, Fail) to S (or A if S is corrupt).
Attacks on Recovery Phase
On input (CompleteRecC-DoS, sid, IDC) from A // Network attacker or malicious server can always
make the client fail:
CRCD.1 Retrieve record ⟨RecC, sid, IDC, ∗, ∗, ∗⟩and delete it.
CRCD.2 Send (RecResult, sid, Fail) to IDC (or A if IDC is corrupt).
On input (CompleteRecS-DoS, sid, IDC) from A: // Server ﬁnishes with failure. In particular, it
never learns if the password was correct
CRSC.1 Retrieve record ⟨RecC, sid, IDC, ∗, ∗, ∗⟩and delete it.
CRSD.2 Output (RecResult, sid, IDC, Fail) to S (or A if S is corrupt).
Fig. 8. Ideal functionality FPPKR, recovery interfaces.
– CompleteInitC outputs K from the session record to the client (CIC.2)
– CompleteInitC-DoS outputs Fail to the client (CICD.2)
– CompleteInitS outputs Succ to the server (CIS.3)
– CompleteInitS-DoS outputs Fail to the server (CISD.2)
Additionally to these outputs, the CompleteInitS interface ensures that
FPPKR installs a password-protected backup key ﬁle for IDC that contains K.
This works as follows: instead of deleting it, FPPKR marks the File record of IDC

352
G. T. Davies et al.
as Stored (CIS.1). Looking ahead, in the recovery phase clients can only recover
keys from File records that are marked Stored. FPPKR then initializes a counter
txsid[IDC] to 10 (CIS.2), which indicates the remaining recovery attempts for the
newly created File record, and sends the output (InitResult, sid, IDC, Succ)
to the server (CIS.3).
This concludes the description of FPPKR’s initialization phase. The absence
of any K- or pw-dependent information in the outputs towards the server (IC.3,
CIS.3, CISD.2) and the adversary (IS.2) ensures secrecy of K and password
obliviousness during initialization.
Recovery Phase. The general structure of record keeping and interfaces of the
recovery phase are very similar to the initialization phase. First, a client starts
a recovery session with the RecC interface, then the server has to agree in
participating in the recovery with the RecS interface, and ﬁnally there are again
for each party two interfaces to let FPPKR output either success or failure to the
parties. For the RecC interface, IDC provides as input the password pw′ it chose
for this recovery attempt. FPPKR then records this in a RecC record (RC.1),
again overwriting any existing RecC record, and outputs to S and A that IDC
started a recovery session (RC.2).
If the server agrees to participate in the recovery session with IDC it calls
the RecS interface with two (not necessarily distinct) client identities IDC and
IDC
∗, where again the second identity IDC
∗being given by the server allows a
malicious server to ignore client authentication and claim a diﬀerent identity is
recovering. FPPKR now does three things:
– FPPKR checks whether IDC has started recovery in the ﬁrst place by looking for
a corresponding client recovery session (RS.2) and drops the query otherwise.
– Then, FPPKR grabs password and key from the stored key record with identity
IDC
′ (RS.3), and writes them into the client’s recovery session record. With
this, FPPKR lets a corrupt server, who can let IDC
′ be any IDC
∗(RS.1), re-
route the recovery attempt of any honest client to the password-protected key
record of any other honest client, which is again motivated by the fact that
a malicious server can simply skip client authentication. Conversely, if the
server is honest, FPPKR ensures IDC
′ = IDC and hence gives access to some
File record containing an identity IDC only to a client with that identity
(Client authentication during recovery).
– After ﬁnding a ﬁle for a recovery attempt in the previous step, FPPKR checks
if the recovery attempt counter for IDC
′ has reached zero (RS.4). In that
case, it deletes the File record of IDC
′ marked Stored to ensure that the
key contained in that record cannot be recovered anymore (limited number
of recovery attempts with wrong passwords) and outputs DelRec to
S and A. Otherwise, the recovery attempt counter for IDC
′ is decremented
(RS.5) and the password pw and key K obtained from the File record are
appended to the RecC record (RS.6).

Security Analysis of the WhatsApp End-to-End Encrypted Backup Protocol
353
Extending the record again serves the purpose of recording that S agreed to
participate in the recovery with IDC. Note that this extended record is not deleted
if IDC starts a new recovery session with another call to the RecC interface. This
reﬂects the fact that the server should still be able to ﬁnish a recovery session
until it agrees to participate in another recovery session with IDC. Finally, the
functionality gives the output (RecS, sid, IDC
′, pw
?= pw′) to the adversary A
(RS.7). We let FPPKR leak the latter bit to the adversary because many protocols,
including the WBP, leak via their communication pattern whether the client
used the correct password or not. For example, a server might only send its last
message to the client if it has previously learned that the client’s password was
correct.
To complete the recovery session, the adversary calls either CompleteRecC
or CompleteRecC-DoS and either CompleteRecS or CompleteRecS-
DoS, again with FPPKR enforcing no order in which the interfaces are called. In
CompleteRecC the functionality retrieves the extended RecC record (CRC.1)
and compares the two password pw and pw′ contained in it (CRC.2). If they are
the same, it outputs the key K contained in the record to the client and otherwise
outputs Fail to the client. To ensure that both the client and the server can ﬁnish
the recovery in any order, the RecC record is marked as Recovered or deleted if
it already is marked as Recovered (CRC.1). Similarly, in the CompleteRecS
interface FPPKR retrieves the extended RecC record (CRS.1) and outputs either
Succ or Fail to the server depending on whether the passwords pw and pw′ in the
RecC record match (CRS.2 and CRS.3). Additionally, if the passwords match,
the recovery attempt counter txsid[IDC] is reset to 10 (CRS.2). To again enforce
no order on which party receives its outputs ﬁrst, the RecC record is marked as
Recovered or deleted if it already is marked as Recovered. Using this mech-
anism both parties receive their output once, and the record is deleted after both
parties received their output.
The
two
interfaces
CompleteRecC-DoS
and
CompleteRecS-DoS
behave exactly the same. The RecC record of IDC is deleted (CRCD.1 and
CRSD.1) and FPPKR outputs Fail to the corresponding party (CRCD.2 and
CRSD.2). In these interface we do not use the mechanism of marking the record
Recovered, since we assume that if either party produces the output Fail the
other party cannot successfully ﬁnish the recovery anymore.
It can be seen from the outputs towards the server (RC.2, CRS.2-3,
CRSD.2) and the adversary (RS.7) that only one bit of information about the
password used by an honest client during recovery (i.e., match or no match) is
leaked, protecting the client from online dictionary attacks. Similarly, adver-
sary and client learn only the match bit about the password contained in the ﬁle
that the server uses during a recovery session (RS.7, CRC.3, CRCD.2).
Oﬄine Attacks. The adversary has access to two interfaces MaliciousRec
and MaliciousInit to mount oﬄine attacks. In both interfaces the adversary
impersonates some client IDC, however, as described in the discussion of the
expected security properties, a client can only be impersonated if the server is

354
G. T. Davies et al.
corrupt. Therefore, both queries are ignored by FPPKR if S is honest (MR.1 and
MI.1).
With the MaliciousInit interface the adversary impersonates a client IDC
and executes a new initialization for IDC. For this, A can choose a new password
pw∗and a new key K∗, which are then stored in a new File record marked
Stored that overwrites any existing File record for IDC (MI.2). FPPKR resets
the counter txsid to 10 since with any new initialization the client gets 10 new
recovery attempts.
With the interface MaliciousRec the adversary impersonates a client and
tries to recover a client’s key from a guessed password. To this end, A inputs the
client identity IDC and a password guess pw∗. FPPKR retrieves the File record
of IDC marked Stored (MR.2) and checks if IDC has any recovery attempts
left by checking if txsid[IDC] = 0. If IDC has no recovery attempts left, it deletes
the File record of IDC (limited number of oﬄine guesses) and outputs
(DelRec, sid, IDC) to A to notify A that the record was deleted (MR.3). Oth-
erwise, the functionality proceeds to check whether the guessed password pw∗
matches the password pw from the File record. If the passwords match, the
adversary gets access to the key stored in the File record, and otherwise FPPKR
returns Fail to the adversary (MR.4).
Diﬀerences Between PPKR and 1-PPSS A password-protected secret sharing
scheme [3] allows a user to retrieve a password-protected secret from a set of
servers. The servers cannot derive or oﬄine-attack the user’s data unless a cer-
tain subset of them colludes. A PPKR scheme could be interpreted as a 1-
PPSS scheme, i.e., where only one server is involved in storing and retrieving
the password-protected secret. While both primitives are very similar consider-
ing only honest parties, it is actually the server corruption model that greatly
diﬀers for PPKR and 1-PPSS. Intuitively, the one server of a 1-PPSS scheme
holds the only share of a secret (or key, in the terminology of PPKR), i.e., the
full secret. If such a server is compromised, unlimited oﬄine guesses on the
shared user secret are unavoidable. PPKR is stronger: upon server compromise,
only a limited number of password guesses are allowed on user secrets. Hence,
PPKR never falls back to 1-PPSS, due to the stronger guarantees upon server
compromise.
4.2
On Strengthening FPPKR
We discuss a potential strengthening of FPPKR regarding the limitation of oﬄine
guesses by a malicious server. While FPPKR buries keys of honest users whenever a
user re-initializes (e.g., when refreshing the key, or when changing the password)
as long as the server is honest, it does not guarantee uniqueness of clients’ backup
keys if the server is corrupted. Consequently, the limitation of oﬄine guessing
attempts holds only per initialized key of a user, and not per user. The reason
why we go with the weaker FPPKR is that the WBP cannot guarantee the stronger
version, and thus we have to reﬂect this weakness for the security analysis of the
actual protocol. However, for completeness, we state here the properties that we

Security Analysis of the WhatsApp End-to-End Encrypted Backup Protocol
355
would ideally like to demand from FPPKR, and the corresponding functionality
can be read from Fig. 7 by dropping the boxed code. Figure 8 does not change.
A bit more detailed, we could strengthen FPPKR by disallowing the adversary
to reroute initializations of honest clients IDC to new identities IDC
∗, such that
upon honest re-initialization, FPPKR always buries the former key of that client.
The security guarantees are then strengthened as follows.
– Uniqueness of K: If the server is honest, initialization of a key K by user C
buries any key that C previously initialized, even if the server is malicious.
– Limited number of oﬄine guesses: The above guarantee extends to mali-
ciously corrupted servers, i.e., after 10 wrong password guesses to recover any
honestly initialized the latest honestly initialized key K of any client, K is
buried and cannot be retrieved by anyone anymore.
5
Security Analysis
The Diﬃculty of a Security Analysis. One might hope that the security of the
WBP directly follows from the security of its OPAQUE component. There are
two main reasons why that does not hold true. First, OPAQUE is a key exchange
protocol that results in two parties sharing a key, while the goal of the WBP
is to hide the key from the server. Second, the WBP deploys version 03 of the
OPAQUE Internet Draft [25] to which the security analysis of the OPAQUE
framework [23] does not apply.
The main challenge when performing a security analysis of the WBP is to
tame its complexity (cf. Figure 4 and Fig. 5). Since we want to focus on the
actual cryptographic protocol, we do not to include the way in which the HSM
outsources data storage in the security analysis. WhatsApp deploys a Merkle
tree based outsourced storage routine that lets the HSM put encrypted data
onto the WhatsApp server’s storage, which should guarantee integrity of the
data and the ability of the HSM to detect malicious erasures by the WhatsApp
server. We leave the analysis of this scheme as a future task, and in this work
simply make the exact same assumptions about it that are claimed in the WBP
whitepaper [31]. To further tame the complexity of the proof of the WBP, we
modularize the security proofs of the underlying OPRF and the authenticated
key exchange (AKE) scheme 3DH. Since previous security analyses did not apply
to the protocol versions deployed by the WBP, we ﬁrst show their security
separately, which may be of independent interest. Then we use the resulting
simulators as subcomponents of the WBP simulator. This proof technique, which
was already used for AKE in [23], avoids formulating the WBP in the AKE- and
OPRF-hybrid model. The latter is not even possible, due to the non-black-box
use that the WBP makes of these components. Altogether, our analysis (1)
shows a lower bound on the security of the WBP, (2) shows the security of
the multi-key 2HashDH OPRF and AKE building blocks as deployed by the
OPAQUE internet draft version 3 [25], as well as malicious client security of
that OPAQUE version.15
15 Our proof considers the security of OPAQUE only against a malicious client, since
the OPAQUE server is run on the incorruptible HSM.

356
G. T. Davies et al.
Modeling the HSM. We model the HSM as a hybrid functionality FHSM that can
be queried by the server as in Fig. 4 and Fig. 5. That is, FHSM contains exactly
the code that the HSM contains in these ﬁgures. For completeness and clarity,
FHSM is depicted in Fig. 9. In addition, FHSM provides an interface for clients to
retrieve pkHSM, which models the setup process that ensures that clients have
the “right” WhatsApp public key hard-coded into their smartphones.16
In the UC framework, messages sent between some party and an ideal func-
tionality are perfectly secure, meaning no network adversary can intercept them
or tamper with them. So modeling the HSM key distribution as idealized com-
munication expresses our assumptions
– that the user installs the correct WhatsApp client on her phone,
– that WhatsApp’s setup ceremony of the HSM leads to honestly generated
keys being distributed to the clients,
– and that only the HSM knows the secret key of the HSM.
However, analyzing the mechanisms to ensure the above assumptions is not in
the scope of this work.
Treatment of Out-of-Order Messages. We assume that the protocol parties
ignore messages that are received out-of-order. That means that during an ini-
tialization or a recovery, the parties do nothing upon receiving a message that
is not formatted as expected. The only exception to this is the respective ﬁrst
message of an initialization or recovery, i.e., a1 for initialization or (nC, ¯pkC, a2)
for recovery. If such a message is received, the currently running initialization
(or recovery, resp.) is discarded and the new initialization (or recovery, resp.)
is continued. This way, there is never more than one initialization (or recovery,
resp.) running per user.
Corruption Model. All corruptions are malicious, meaning that the adversary
can fully control not only the communication but also the behavior of a corrupted
party. We consider adaptive corruptions of clients and the server. However, we
add the restriction that clients cannot be corrupted during an ongoing initializa-
tion or recovery session. More precisely, the environment is not allowed to corrupt
some client IDC if, following the most recent (InitC, ∗) input from the environ-
ment to IDC, IDC did not produce a corresponding output (InitResult, ∗) yet.
Analogously, if following the most recent (RecC, ∗) input from the environment
to IDC, IDC did not produce a corresponding output (RecResult, ∗) yet, the
environment is not allowed to corrupt IDC as well. We deem this reasonable,
since the time it takes to execute the initialization or recovery protocol is rela-
tively short. Formally, this means that the eﬀect of adaptive client corruptions
16 One might be tempted to model this by giving the HSM’s public key as input to
the client instead. However, that would mean that the UC environment machine
can give public keys to clients for which the environment knows the corresponding
secret key. For WBP the clients have a hard-coded public key for which only the
HSM knows the secret key, so this would not adequately model WBP and make the
already complex security analysis unreasonably more complex.

Security Analysis of the WhatsApp End-to-End Encrypted Backup Protocol
357
Ideal functionality FHSM
The functionality talks to a server S hardcoded in sid and to arbitrary other parties P.
Initially:
KEnc
HSM
$←−{0, 1}λ
(skSig
HSM, pkSig
HSM)
$←−Σ.KeyGen(1λ)
On input (RecS, aid, nc, ¯pkC, a2) :
(skEnc
HSM, pkEnc
HSM)
$←−PKE.KeyGen(1λ)
(KPRF
aid , m, ctr) ←sec retr(aid)
(skDH
HSM, pkDH
HSM)
$←−DH.KeyGen(1λ)
if no record can be found:
pkHSM = {pkSig
HSM, pkEnc
HSM, pkDH
HSM}
return (RecResult, aid, Fail)
skHSM = {skSig
HSM, skEnc
HSM, skDH
HSM, KEnc
HSM}
parse m = e ∥pkC ∥e cred ∥ne ∥Te
if ctr = 0 :
On input (GetPK) from P ∈{IDC, S, A}
return (DelRec, aid)
return pkHSM to P
else :
set ctr′ ←ctr −1
On input (InitS, aidnew, aidold, a1) from S :
sec set ctr(aid, ctr′)
sec delete(aidold)
b2 ←a
KPRF
aid
2
if sec retr(aidnew) is successful:
nS
$←−{0, 1}λ
return (InitResult, aidnew, Fail)
( ¯pkS, ¯skS)
$←−DH.KeyGen
else :
pre ←(a2, nc, ¯pkC, pkDH
HSM, e cred,
KPRF
aidnew
$←−Zp
ne, Te, b2, nS, ¯pkS)
b1 ←a
KPRF
aidnew
1
ikm ←( ¯pk
¯skS
C , ¯pk
skDH
HSM
C
, pkC
¯skS)
n1
$←−{0, 1}λ
(KMAC
S
, KMAC
C
, shk) ←KDF2(ikm, pre)
σ1
$←−Σ.Sign(skSig
HSM; b1 ∥n1)
TS ←MAC.Tag(KMAC
S
, H3(pre))
trHSM ←H3(a1, b1, n1)
σ2
$←−Σ.Sign(skSig
HSM; b2)
return (aidnew, b1, n1, σ1) to S
return (aid, b2, e cred, ne, Te, nS, ¯pkS, TS, σ2)
On input (File, aidnew, E) :
On input (RecResult, aid, T ′
C) :
m ←PKE.Dec(skEnc
HSM; E)
TC ←MAC.Tag(KMAC
C
, H3(pre ∥TS))
parse m = (e ∥trC ∥pkC ∥e cred ∥ne ∥Te)
if T ′
C ̸= TC :
if trC ̸= trHSM :
return (RecResult, aid, Fail) to S
return (InitResult, aidnew, Fail) to S
else :
else :
c
$←−AE.Enc(shk; e)
sec store(aidnew, (KPRF
aidnew,
sec set ctr(aid, 10)
e ∥pkC ∥e cred ∥ne ∥Te, ctr ←10))
return (aid, c) to S
return (InitResult, aidnew, Succ) to S
Fig. 9. The ideal functionality FHSM.
is that the adversary (1) learns all values that the client stores after completion
of an initialization or recovery phase, namely key K, and (2) controls the client
behavior from that point on.
Let AE′ be the AE scheme that is implicitly used in Figs. 4 and 5 to encrypt
skC, that is:
– KeyGen′(1λ) →(Kmask, Kauth), where Kmask, Kauth
$←−{0, 1}λ
– Enc′((Kmask, Kauth), m) →(m ⊕Kmask, MAC.Tag(Kauth, m ⊕Kmask))
– Dec′((Kmask, Kauth), (e cred, Te)) →

⊥if MAC.Vfy(Kauth, m) = 0
e cred ⊕Kmask else
Theorem 2. Let H1, H2, KDF1, KDF2 be random oracles such that 2HashDH
UC-realizes the “multi-key” functionality FOPRF and 3DH UC-realizes the

358
G. T. Davies et al.
authenticated key exchange functionality FAKE-KCI, which are formally deﬁned
in the full version [17]. Let Σ = (Σ.KeyGen, Σ.Sign, Σ.Vfy) be an sEUF-CMA-
secure signature scheme, MAC = (MAC.Tag, MAC.Vfy) be an sEUF-CMA-secure
MAC, PKE = (PKE.KeyGen, PKE.Enc, PKE.Dec) be an IND-CPA-secure public
key encryption scheme, AE = (AE.KeyGen, AE.Enc, AE.Dec) be an authenticated
encryption scheme, AE′ = (KeyGen′, Enc′, Dec′) have random-key robustness, and
H3 : {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}λ be a collision resistant hash function.
Then the WBP as described in Fig. 4 and Fig. 5 UC-realizes the PPKR func-
tionality of Fig. 7 and Fig. 8 in the FHSM-hybrid model, assuming malicious adap-
tive corruption of clients as deﬁned above, malicious adaptive corruption of the
server, and a client-authenticated channel between clients and the server. Con-
cretely, for any eﬃcient adversary against WBP (interacting with FHSM), there
is an eﬃcient simulator Sim that interacts with FPPKR and produces a view such
that for every eﬃcient environment Z, it holds that
DistWBP,{FPPKR,Sim}
Z
(λ) ≤Dist2HashDH,{FOPRF,SimOPRF}
Z∗
(λ)
+ Dist3DH,{FAKE-KCI,Sim3DH}
Z∗
(λ)
+ AdvsEUF-CMA
B,Σ
(λ) + 2QRecAdvsEUF-CMA
B,MAC
(λ)
+ 2AdvCR
B,H3(λ) + QInitAdvIND-CPA
B,PKE (λ)
+ QRecAdvIND-CPA
B,AE
(λ) + QRecAdvINT-CTXT
B,AE
(λ)
+
QInit
2

2−λ +
QRec
2

2−λ+1 +
QKDF1
2

AdvRKR
B,AE′(λ),
where QInit ∈N is an upper bound on the number of initializations, QRec ∈N
is an upper bound on the number of recoveries, QKDF1 is an upper bound on the
number of KDF1 queries, and B, resp. Z∗, is the adversary in the corresponding
security experiments.
Proof. A proof sketch outlining the proof steps, the full proof, as well as a
discussion of the proof can be found in the full version [17].
6
Conclusion and Future Work
We have presented the ﬁrst formal security analysis of the widely-used
WhatsApp backup protocol and conﬁrmed that the WBP indeed provides strong
security guarantees such as online protection of the password, and the strength
and secrecy of the backup key. However, we also show how a compromised
WhatsApp server can increase the number of admissible password guesses from
only ctr on the most recent password of the user, to qpw ∗ctr on any password pw
ever entered by the user, where qpw is the number of initializations performed
with pw by the WhatsApp client device. Our analysis and formal modeling fur-
ther spans a multitude of interesting research questions, that we divide into three
categories.

Security Analysis of the WhatsApp End-to-End Encrypted Backup Protocol
359
Widening the Scope of the Analysis. In this work we have only focused on the
cryptographic core of the WBP. Potential avenues for future research include
a formal analysis of the (Merkle tree based) protocol which the HSM uses to
securely outsource storage to untrusted servers. Another interesting direction
would be to extend the corruption model to proactive corruptions, which allows
to investigate whether WBP participants can recover faithfully from corruptions,
e.g., after having granted compelled access at border control.
Direct Improvements of the WBP. The increased number of password guesses is
only possible because the HSM cannot authenticate the client but has to trust the
WhatsApp server that it indeed only acts on demand of honest clients. This can,
e.g., be achieved if the client directly authenticates towards the HSM. That way,
the server cannot impersonate clients towards the HSM anymore. However, this
approach also requires WhatsApp to modify its authentication infrastructure,
which is currently independent of the WBP. An “easy” modiﬁcation of WBP is to
let the HSM sign all messages. This provides direct protection of replay attacks
by the adversary, against which the WBP protects implicitly using message
authentication codes (MACs). Such “full” signing would greatly simplify the
analysis of the protocol. This raises also the interesting question whether other
potentially more costly protection mechanisms of the integrity of messages could
be dropped if signing ensures HSM-authenticated channels, ending up with a
more eﬃcient protocol overall. Lastly, regarding eﬃciency improvements, one
could look into whether a “less secure” (and potentially more eﬃcient) version
of OPAQUE could be plugged into the WBP, where protection against server
compromise is dropped. Server compromise seems not a realistic attack scenario
in this particular application of OPAQUE, because the OPAQUE server part is
run on an HSM, which needs to be trusted anyway.
We note here that the above discussed eﬃciency improvements might not be
of immediate interest to WhatsApp, where the WBP is only seldomly executed
per user. Improvements regarding the security must be carefully analyzed and
justiﬁed, since updating the HSM code of WBP requires WhatsApp to replace
all HSMs with new ones and to perform the setup ceremony again.
Constructing PPKR Diﬀerently. The WBP is built around the OPAQUE proto-
col, which in turn deploys an oblivious pseudorandom function (OPRF) and an
authenticated key exchange (AKE) protocol. The authenticated key exchange
part serves as a tool for convincing the HSM of correctness of the client’s pass-
word, which is necessary to ensure that the guess attempt counter can be reset
to 10 guesses. It is an interesting open question whether this could be achieved
from simpler primitives, such as symmetric primitives, which are more eﬃcient
than the public-key-based AKE.

360
G. T. Davies et al.
References
1. Direct correspondences with Kevin Lewi and other members of the WhatsApp
engineering team, 2022–2023
2. Alwen, J., Coretti, S., Dodis, Y.: The double ratchet: security notions, proofs, and
modularization for the signal protocol. In: Ishai, Y., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EURO-
CRYPT 2019, Part I. LNCS, vol. 11476, pp. 129–158. Springer, Cham (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-17653-2 5
3. Bagherzandi, A., Jarecki, S., Saxena, N., Lu, Y.: Password-protected secret sharing.
In: ACM CCS 2011, pp. 433–444. ACM Press (2011)
4. Bellare, M., Singh, A.C., Jaeger, J., Nyayapati, M., Stepanovs, I.: Ratcheted
encryption and key exchange: the security of messaging. In: Katz, J., Shacham, H.
(eds.) CRYPTO 2017, Part III. LNCS, vol. 10403, pp. 619–650. Springer, Cham
(2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-63697-9 21
5. Bienstock, A., Fairoze, J., Garg, S., Mukherjee, P., Raghuraman, S.: A more com-
plete analysis of the signal double ratchet algorithm. In: Dodis, Y., Shrimpton, T.
(eds.) CRYPTO 2022, Part I. LNCS, vol. 13507, pp. 784–813. Springer, Heidelberg
(2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15802-5 27
6. Bourdrez, D., Krawczyk, D.H., Lewi, K., Wood, C.A.: The OPAQUE Asymmet-
ric PAKE Protocol. Internet-Draft draft-irtf-cfrg-opaque-09, Internet Engineer-
ing Task Force (2022). https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-irtf-cfrg-opaque/
09/. Work in Progress
7. Brost, J., Egger, C., Lai, R.W.F., Schmid, F., Schr¨oder, D., Zoppelt, M.: Threshold
password-hardened encryption services. In: ACM CCS 2020, pp. 409–424. ACM
Press (2020)
8. Camenisch, J., Lysyanskaya, A., Neven, G.: Practical yet universally composable
two-server password-authenticated secret sharing. In: ACM CCS 2012, pp. 525–
536. ACM Press (2012)
9. Canetti, R.: Universally composable security: A new paradigm for cryptographic
protocols. In: 42nd FOCS, pp. 136–145. IEEE Computer Society Press (2001)
10. Canetti, R., Jain, P., Swanberg, M., Varia, M.: Universally composable end-to-end
secure messaging. In: Dodis, Y., Shrimpton, T. (eds.) CRYPTO 2022, Part II.
LNCS, vol. 13508, pp. 3–33. Springer, Heidelberg (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-031-15979-4 1
11. Casacuberta, S., Hesse, J., Lehmann, A.: SoK: oblivious pseudorandom functions.
In: IEEE EuroS&P 2022. IEEE (2022)
12. Cathcart, W.: (2022). https://twitter.com/wcathcart/status/16006038264776171
52
13. Chase, M., Perrin, T., Zaverucha, G.: The signal private group system and anony-
mous credentials supporting eﬃcient veriﬁable encryption. In: ACM CCS 2020, pp.
1445–1459. ACM Press (2020)
14. Cohn-Gordon, K., Cremers, C., Dowling, B., Garratt, L., Stebila, D.: A formal
security analysis of the signal messaging protocol. In: EuroS&P, pp. 451–466. IEEE
(2017)
15. Das, P., Hesse, J., Lehmann, A.: DPaSE: distributed password-authenticated
symmetric-key encryption, or how to get many keys from one password. In: ASI-
ACCS 2022, pp. 682–696. ACM Press (2022)
16. Davidson, A., Faz-Hernandez, A., Sullivan, N., Wood, C.A.: Oblivious Pseudo-
random Functions (OPRFs) using Prime-Order Groups. Internet-Draft draft-irtf-
cfrg-voprf-17, Internet Engineering Task Force (2023). https://datatracker.ietf.org/
doc/draft-irtf-cfrg-voprf/17/. Work in Progress

Security Analysis of the WhatsApp End-to-End Encrypted Backup Protocol
361
17. Davies, G.T., et al.: Security analysis of the whatsapp end-to-end encrypted backup
protocol. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2023/843 (2023). https://eprint.iacr.
org/2023/843
18. Doussot, G., Lacharit´e, M.S., Schorn, E.: End-to-End Encrypted Backups Security
Assessment (2021). https://research.nccgroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/
NCC Group WhatsApp E001000M Report 2021-10-27 v1.2.pdf
19. Gentry, C., MacKenzie, P., Ramzan, Z.: A method for making password-based
key exchange resilient to server compromise. In: Dwork, C. (ed.) CRYPTO 2006.
LNCS, vol. 4117, pp. 142–159. Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/10.
1007/11818175 9
20. Jarecki, S., Kiayias, A., Krawczyk, H.: Round-optimal password-protected secret
sharing and T-PAKE in the password-only model. In: Sarkar, P., Iwata, T. (eds.)
ASIACRYPT 2014. LNCS, vol. 8874, pp. 233–253. Springer, Heidelberg (2014).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-45608-8 13
21. Jarecki, S., Kiayias, A., Krawczyk, H., Xu, J.: Highly-eﬃcient and compos-
able password-protected secret sharing (or: how to protect your bitcoin wallet
online). In: IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy, EuroS&P 2016,
Saarbr¨ucken, Germany, 21–24 March 2016, pp. 276–291. IEEE (2016)
22. Jarecki, S., Krawczyk, H., Resch, J.K.: Updatable oblivious key management for
storage systems. In: ACM CCS 2019, pp. 379–393. ACM Press (2019)
23. Jarecki, S., Krawczyk, H., Xu, J.: OPAQUE: an asymmetric PAKE protocol
secure against pre-computation attacks. In: Nielsen, J.B., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EURO-
CRYPT 2018, Part III. LNCS, vol. 10822, pp. 456–486. Springer, Cham (2018).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-78372-7 15
24. Jost, D., Maurer, U., Mularczyk, M.: A uniﬁed and composable take on ratcheting.
In: Hofheinz, D., Rosen, A. (eds.) TCC 2019, Part II. LNCS, vol. 11892, pp. 180–
210. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-36033-7 7
25. Krawczyk, D.H., Lewi, K., Wood, C.A.: The OPAQUE Asymmetric PAKE
Protocol.
Internet-Draft
draft-irtf-cfrg-opaque-03,
Internet
Engineering
Task
Force (2021). https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-irtf-cfrg-opaque/03/. Work in
Progress
26. Lai, R.W.F., Egger, C., Reinert, M., Chow, S.S.M., Maﬀei, M., Schr¨oder, D.: Simple
password-hardened encryption services. In: USENIX Security 2018, pp. 1405–1421.
USENIX Association (2018)
27. Novak, M.: Paul Manafort Learns That Encrypting Messages Doesn’t Matter If
the Feds Have a Warrant to Search Your iCloud Account (2018). https://gizmodo.
com/paul-manafort-learns-that-encrypting-messages-doesnt-ma-1826561511
28. Perrin, T.: The noise protocol framework. http://noiseprotocol.org/noise.html
29. R¨osler, P., Mainka, C., Schwenk, J.: More is less: on the end-to-end security of
group chats in signal, whatsapp, and threema. In: EuroS&P, pp. 415–429. IEEE
(2018)
30. Vatandas, N., Gennaro, R., Ithurburn, B., Krawczyk, H.: On the cryptographic
deniability of the signal protocol. In: Conti, M., Zhou, J., Casalicchio, E., Spog-
nardi, A. (eds.) ACNS 2020, Part II. LNCS, vol. 12147, pp. 188–209. Springer,
Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-57878-7 10
31. WhatsApp: Security of End-to-End Encrypted Backups (2021). https://www.
whatsapp.com/security/WhatsApp Security Encrypted Backups Whitepaper.pdf
32. WhatsApp: WhatsApp Encryption Overview (2021). https://www.whatsapp.com/
security/WhatsApp-Security-Whitepaper.pdf

