Secure Multiparty Computation
from Threshold Encryption
Based on Class Groups
Lennart Braun(B)
, Ivan Damgård, and Claudio Orlandi
Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark
{braun,ivan,orlandi}@cs.au.dk
Abstract. We construct the ﬁrst actively-secure threshold version of
the cryptosystem based on class groups from the so-called CL frame-
work (Castagnos and Laguillaumie, 2015).
We show how to use our threshold scheme to achieve general univer-
sally composable (UC) secure multiparty computation (MPC) with only
transparent set-up, i.e., with no secret trapdoors involved.
On the way to our goal, we design new zero-knowledge (ZK) protocols
with constant communication complexity for proving multiplicative rela-
tions between encrypted values. This allows us to use the ZK proofs to
achieve MPC with active security with only a constant factor overhead.
Finally, we adapt our protocol for the so called “You-Only-Speak-
Once” (YOSO) setting, which is a very promising recent approach for
performing MPC over a blockchain. This is possible because our key
generation protocol is simpler and requires signiﬁcantly less interaction
compared to previous approaches: in particular, our new key generation
protocol allows the adversary to bias the public key, but we show that
this has no impact on the security of the resulting cryptosystem.
1
Introduction
In secure multiparty computation (MPC), a set of N parties jointly compute an
agreed function on inputs privately held by the parties. For security, we require
that the result is correct and that the only new information revealed is the
intended output. This should be true even if up to t parties are corrupted by an
adversary, for some parameter 1 ≤t < N.
The CDN Framework. In recent years, we have seen an explosion of results
that improve the eﬃciency of general MPC protocols. One tool that is featured
prominently in many recent works is Threshold Linearly Homomorphic Encryp-
tion (TLHE). In such a scheme there is a common public key pk, while the secret
decryption key is shared among the parties using an appropriate secret-sharing
scheme. It is assumed that we have a secure decryption protocol which on input
a ciphertext c = Enc(pk, m) returns the encrypted message m while revealing
nothing else. Furthermore we assume that messages come from a ring, typically
Zn for some natural number n and that we have corresponding multiplication
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2023
H. Handschuh and A. Lysyanskaya (Eds.): CRYPTO 2023, LNCS 14081, pp. 613–645, 2023.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-38557-5_20

614
L. Braun et al.
and exponentiation operations on ciphertexts such that for any messages a, b
and public constant α in the ring, we have
Enc(pk, a) · Enc(pk, b)α = Enc(pk, a + αb).
This set-up, together with a set of appropriate zero-knowledge protocols,
allows to implement MPC for general functions. This idea was ﬁrst introduced
by Cramer et al. in [17]. The construction is known as the CDN framework
because it works for any TLHE scheme, given the right set of zero-knowledge
protocols. These include, for instance, proof of plaintext knowledge for a given
ciphertext. While the required protocols can always be realized using generic
techniques for zero-knowledge, some cryptosystems, such as Paillier encryp-
tion [34], allow very eﬃcient Σ-protocols for this purpose, such that the overhead
required for the proofs is only a constant factor, compared to simply sending the
required ciphertexts.
The CDN framework was deﬁned for honest majority, but it is well-known
in the folklore that it can also easily be adapted to work for dishonest majority,
although only security with abort can then be obtained. In the years following
the introduction of CDN, interest in the framework declined somewhat, for sev-
eral reasons. For honest majority, it was realized that more eﬃcient protocols
can be obtained from techniques based on secret-sharing. For dishonest majority
the BeDOZa/SPDZ protocols [6,21] introduced the idea of pushing the use of
the expensive public key operations into a preprocessing phase where the inputs
and function to compute need not be known. The preprocessing produces cor-
related randomness (typically so-called Beaver’s multiplication triples [5]) that
is used once the function and inputs are known, and then, in the on-line phase,
only very simple information-theoretic techniques are needed. The most practi-
cal instantiations of SPDZ perform preprocessing using somewhat-homomorphic
Lattice-based encryption [4,30,31]. This works well for relatively small plaintext
spaces, say Fq for a 128-bit prime q, but gets very cumbersome for large q. While
the preprocessing could also be done using the CDN approach based on Paillier
encryption, this forces the plaintext ring to be Zn for an RSA modulus n and this
is not a good ﬁt for all applications. In particular, the modulus, and hence the
plaintext domain is not even known before the key generation is done, whereas
other approaches can work for a predeﬁned plaintext ring. Finally, one needs
the modulus to be generated in a trusted way, which either requires a trusted
authority or a (notoriously cumbersome) secure protocol for generating n. In
summary, for large plaintext rings, there is a lack of a satisfactory approach to
perform general preprocessing.
YOSO MPC. Interest in the CDN framework was recently renewed by the
introduction of the You Only Speak Once (YOSO) model for MPC, by Gentry
et al. in [29]. This model assumes a large universe of M parties, here referred to
as servers, that are all willing to help execute a secure computation. The main
idea is to have the secure computation be done by a committee of N servers
where N ≪M, and where the committee will change over time. The goal is to
hide from the adversary who is in the committee. If this can be done, we can

Secure Multiparty Computation
615
hope to do MPC with communication complexity that scales sublinearly with
M, even if the adversary can corrupt, say, just under M/2 of the servers – since
then a randomly chosen but small committee will have honest majority with
large probability.
However, the adversary is most likely able to tell who is in the committee as
soon as these servers start sending messages and could then attack them. Hence
the YOSO paradigm: a committee should only send one round of messages,
and then the committee changes. The new committee will of course need to
receive private information, so to realize this, one needs receiver anonymous
communication channels (RACC). One can think of this as a primitive that
outputs N public encryption keys such that the adversary does not know who
they belong to (as long as the owner is not corrupt), and such that the majority
of the owners are honest. In [29] a construction of RACC was proposed.
The bottleneck in a YOSO protocol is clearly the private communication
between committees. The secret state one needs to maintain should therefore be
as small as possible. This means that secret-sharing-based protocols and proto-
cols in the preprocessing model are not well suited for YOSO, as parties need to
remember a large number of shares. In contrast, a protocol following the CDN
paradigm works much better: the only secret state that must be maintained
consists of each party’s share of the secret key. The rest of the state consists of
public ciphertexts. This was pointed out already in [29], where a concrete con-
struction was done from the Paillier-based instantiation of CDN. However, the
construction assumed as set-up an honestly generated public key and a sharing
of the secret key for the ﬁrst committee. Doing CDN-style MPC in the YOSO
model without trusted set-up was left as an open problem.
Our Contribution. The contributions of our work are as follows:
1. We construct the ﬁrst actively-secure threshold version of the class-group-
based LHE from the so-called CL framework [12]. This allows e.g., to
address the problem related to the plaintext space mentioned above, since
the CL cryptosystem can be used for plaintext space Fq where q can be
(almost) any prime.
2. We propose a novel threshold key-generation protocol for the CL cryptosys-
tem that is simpler and requires signiﬁcantly less interaction than the state-
of-the-art from [28]. This is essential to enable usage of the cryptosystem in
the YOSO setting. The simpliﬁcation is of independent interest as it also
applies to other cryptosystems, including standard ElGamal based on DDH.
3. We identify a problem with Feldman-style secret sharing over a group of
unknown order as introduced by Rabin [36].1 This is an essential tool used
by our key-generation protocol. We ﬁx the problem, patching the protocol
(which becomes only slightly more complicated) and we can prove it secure
under the assumption that the group order is hard to compute.
4. We design new zero-knowledge protocols for proving multiplicative relations
between CL-encrypted values, with only constant factor overhead.
1 We describe the issue in detail in the full version [9].

616
L. Braun et al.
5. We introduce a new computational assumption, which we call the rough order
assumption, stating that class groups with no small prime factors in their
order are hard to distinguish from general class groups. Assuming this, we
can considerably simplify our zero-knowledge protocols and their security
proofs. We believe this is of independent interest as it will apply to other
constructions based on class groups.
6. We build an UC-secure MPC protocol with transparent setup following the
CDN paradigm. The protocol uses our novel TLHE scheme and ZK protocols
described above. Transparent set-up in this context means that we do not
need to assume a trusted party that generates the set-up and must keep
some trapdoor information secret. Essentially, we just need to select some
parameters from public randomness e.g., using a random oracle.
7. Finally, we adapt our MPC protocol to the YOSO setting, including the
threshold key generation protocol. This solves the open problem mentioned
above, from [29].
It would be easy to adapt our MPC protocol to the dishonest-majority set-
ting, e.g., using the SPDZ paradigm (but we do not explicitly describe it in this
paper). While this might not be so interesting in the YOSO context, it would
have some beneﬁt in the traditional MPC setting, since it would allow using any
Fq (where q is a large prime) as plaintext ring, and as explained above, this can
be an advantage over previous approaches for large q.
1.1
Technical Overview
As mentioned, we start from the CL cryptosystem as suggested in [12] and
further investigated in [10,11,13]. The cryptosystem is based on (subgroup of)
a class group G ≃F × H where F has known order q and the order of H is
hard to compute. Such a group is speciﬁed by choosing initially a public number
called the discriminant. This number is sampled transparently e.g., no hidden
factorization is required.
A public key is a pair pk = (g, h) of elements in H, where the secret key is
the discrete log of h base g. An encryption of m ∈Fq with randomness r is of the
form Enc(pk, m; r) = (gr, f mhr), where f ∈F is a generator of F or order q, and
where in addition discrete logs base f are easy to compute. Decryption and the
homomorphic properties follow almost immediately. CPA security follows from
an appropriate assumption on subgroup indistinguishability. For the application
of this system to MPC, there are a number of technical challenges to overcome,
as we explain below.
Distributed Key Generation. To avoid trusted set-up in the CDN paradigm,
we need a distributed key generation protocol, where a public key is formed
and parties obtain shares of the corresponding secret key. Now, encryption in
the CL framework is essentially ElGamal encryption adapted to the class-group
setting. So a natural ﬁrst attempt is to have each player perform a Feldman-style
veriﬁable secret sharing of their contribution to the key [25], and then essentially
add up all valid contributions.

Secure Multiparty Computation
617
In a Feldman VSS, the dealer publishes gx and {gαk}t
k=1 where the αk’s
are coeﬃcients of a degree-t polynomial to be used for secret sharing x among
the parties. Evaluating the polynomials in the exponent, it is possible to pub-
licly compute values yj = gsj, where sj is the share of party Pj and this allows
veriﬁcation of the share that Pj receives in private. However, it turns out that
there is a problem with this type of secret sharing in our setting: it takes place
over a group of unknown order (as ﬁrst done in [36]) so parties cannot reduce
modulo the order, meaning that we can only do integer arithmetic in the expo-
nent. Therefore we must use the integer variant of Shamir secret sharing, i.e.,
polynomials with integer coeﬃcients. Feldman’s original suggestion was to use a
group of known public order, such as a prime order subgroup of Z∗
p for a prime
p. In such a setting, it is the case that from any t + 1 shares {sj} that satisfy
yi = gsi, one can reconstruct the correct secret x, and this can be concluded
without relying on any computational assumptions. But this is not true for the
case where integer secret sharing is used over an unknown order group. Intu-
itively, the reason is that we use integer secret sharing, but the veriﬁcation of
shares only guarantees that they are correct modulo the group order, not that
they are the correct integers. It turns out that this can be used to mount a
subtle attack against the protocols in the literature (which seems to have gone
unnoticed since [36]): As we describe in detail in the full version [9], a corrupt
dealer who knows the group order can break reconstruction. This means that
reconstruction cannot be shown secure unless we rely on the assumption that
the group order is hard to compute. We ﬁx this issue by having the dealer prove
in zero-knowledge that they know the discrete log of gx. Then, if any value is
reconstructed that is diﬀerent from what we extract from the dealer, we would
get a multiple of the group order which we assume is infeasible to compute.2
Once we have a working version of Feldman VSS we can use the linearity
properties and essentially add all valid contributions to the key to get the ﬁnal
key pair. However, this leads to a second challenge: as pointed out in [28], the
approach based on Feldman VSS allows the adversary to bias the public key by
selecting the contributions of the corrupt players after seeing what the honest
players send. It is then not clear that the resulting encryption scheme is still
secure. In [28] the problem was solved by designing a diﬀerent protocol that
guarantees a uniform public key, but this protocol is more complex, requires
several rounds and is not suitable for the YOSO setting. Our approach is to
instead take a closer look at the key generation using only Feldman VSS. We
observe that the adversary’s inﬂuence on this protocol can be shown to be equiv-
alent to a modiﬁed CPA game where the adversary is ﬁrst shown a public key
pk, then selects a number δ, and the ﬁnal public key is then pk′ = pk · gδ; the
CPA game now continues as usual with pk′ as the public key. Next, we show that
2 In follow-up work, we have observed that for the particular application to key gen-
eration, a slightly weaker reconstruction property suﬃces, namely that the product
of x and a public constant modulo the group order can be reconstructed. This can
be achieved without the dealer proving knowledge of x and hence the key generation
can be made more eﬃcient.

618
L. Braun et al.
for the cryptosystem in question, given an adversary who can win this modiﬁed
CPA game, we can construct one that wins the standard CPA game. Hence, our
encryption scheme is CPA secure, even if the public key is biased in the way our
simpler protocol allows. This observation is of independent interest, as it applies
also to standard ElGamal encryption based on DDH (described in the full ver-
sion [9]). We note that in [28], it was shown that a biased public key is good
enough for some signature schemes, but the problem for encryption schemes was
left open.
Zero-Knowledge Protocols. An eﬃcient zero-knowledge protocol for proof
of plaintext knowledge was already suggested in [11]. In addition, we need a
protocol for the following setting: given ciphertext c = Enc(pk, a), a party P can
choose b, compute d = Enc(pk, b) and e = cb·Enc(pk, 0) = Enc(pk, a·b) and prove
in zero-knowledge that d and e were correctly computed. Since e = cb ·Enc(pk, 0)
and b also appears in the exponent in Enc(pk, b), it turns out we can use a
Schnorr-style Σ-protocol to prove this relation [18].
Usually, one would want these protocols to have standard knowledge sound-
ness, and it is well known that achieving this, as well as constant factor overhead
protocols, leads to technical diﬃculties in groups of unknown order. More specif-
ically, the extractor needs to compute inverses modulo the group order which
cannot be done eﬃciently. This issue can sometimes be avoided by relying on
the assumption that the adversary cannot compute non-trivial roots of a given
group element. But even this will not work in our setting: we need to work with
ciphertexts - and hence group elements - that are chosen by the adversary, and
for those we can of course not assume that the adversary cannot compute roots.
While it is possible to work around this using more complicated protocols, we
observe that there is a much cleaner way to solve the problem:
We take a close look at the soundness property we need for our MPC protocol.
It turns out to be suﬃcient that an adversarially generated ciphertext is proved
to be well formed, and that we can extract the plaintext from the proof. This
is weaker than full knowledge soundness that would equire us to also extract
the ciphertext’s randomness from the proof. It then turns out that we can prove
the soundness property we need under the sole assumption that the order of
the group we work in is “rough”, i.e., has only large prime factors in its order.
This is not necessarily true for class groups in general, but we introduce a new
computational assumption stating that discriminants for class groups with rough
order are indistinguishable from discriminants in general. This is then the only
assumption we need for soundness. While this is admittedly a new and not yet
well studied assumption, we believe that it will have impact in future work since
it allows a much cleaner design and analysis of zero-knowledge protocols which
would otherwise be quite cumbersome to analyse. (However, at the cost of more
complicated protocols and analysis, we could instead use the more well-known
strong root assumption.)
YOSO MPC. All this leads to a general MPC protocol following the CDN
paradigm, which we adapt to the YOSO setting in the ﬁnal part of the paper.
This solves the open problem from [29], in that we obtain a CDN-style MPC

Secure Multiparty Computation
619
protocol without trusted set-up. We do this following the approach of [29] but
replacing Pailler encryption by class-group-based encryption (which does not
require any trusted set-up for key generation), however, the major diﬀerence
is that the Feldman VSS used in the key generation must also be adapted to
YOSO. In the original VSS, the dealer sends shares privately to the share holders.
Instead, we let the dealer publish ciphertexts containing shares intended for the
next committee, as well as zero-knowledge proof that the ciphertexts are correct.
Now, the VSS consists of publishing one message which ﬁts well the YOSO
setting.
1.2
Other Related Work
Class groups have been used as tool to achieve transparent setups for other cryp-
tographic primitives including: SNARKS [3], pseudorandom correlation func-
tions [2], veriﬁable delay functions [8,35,39], and much more.
In concurrent work, Kolby et al. [32] show that it is possible to achieve guar-
anteed output delivery in a constant number of rounds without relying on trusted
setup in the YOSO model. In particular, they propose two protocols based on
garbled circuits and fully-homomorphic encryption which achieve constant round
communication. They also propose a non constant-round protocol (which is used
to bootstrap the constant-round protocols that require setup) which has some
similarities with our work since it also uses linearly homomorphic encryption
based on class groups in the YOSO context. However, the work in [32] does not
construct a TLHE scheme nor a YOSO key generation protocol. Instead, they
assign a key pair from the basic scheme to each committee member and instruct
committee members to send to the next committee by secret sharing their data
and encrypting the shares for the receivers. This does achieve general MPC in
YOSO without set-up, but this comes at a price: the amount of data that must
be privately passed between committees is proportional to the size of the circuit
being computed. In contrast, in a solution using a TLHE scheme, one can pass
information by posting public ciphertexts encrypted under the global public key,
and the data will then be accessible to any committee that has shares of the pri-
vate key. Hence, these shares are the only private data we need to maintain. In
[24], Erwig et al. present a threshold cryptosystem for the YOSO setting based
on the discrete logarithm problem in prime order groups.
Recently, in concurrent and independent work, Castagnos et al. [14] created
a threshold linearly homomorphic encryption scheme with Z2k as plaintext space
using a new variant of the CL framework. While this enables new applications
where arithmetic modulo a 2-power is needed, the construction requires a class
group where the discriminant is an RSA modulus whose factors must not be
known to the adversary. So this scheme does not allow transparent set-up.
2
Preliminaries
Notation. The following shorthands are used to describe ranges of integers:
[n] := {1, . . . , n}, [a, b] := {a, . . . , b}, and [a, b) := {a, . . . , b −1}. We use a

620
L. Braun et al.
computational security parameter λ and a statistical security parameter σ. Our
protocols are deﬁned for N parties P1, . . . , PN out of whom up to t parties can
be corrupted. We use C and H to denote the subsets of corrupted and honest
parties, respectively. We frequently use Δ := N! = 1 · 2 · · · N.
The CL Framework for Unknown Order Groups. The framework was
introduced by Castagnos et al. [12], and enhanced in [10,11,13]. The following
description is based on [10, Def. 4] and [38].
Group Structure. The framework speciﬁes two algorithms, CLGen and
CLSolve. CLGen takes a computational security parameter 1λ and a prime q > 2λ,
and outputs a tuple ppcl := (q, ¯s, f, gq, G, F; ρ) ←CLGen(1λ, q), where ρ denotes
the randomness used by CLGen.3 We deﬁne a UC functionality FCL that gener-
ates and distributes ppcl. Here, ( G, ·) is a ﬁnite abelian group of order ˆn := q · ˆs.
The factor ˆs remains unknown, but we are given an upper bound ¯s ≥ˆs. More-
over gcd(q, ˆs) = 1, and the size of ˆs depends on the security parameter λ. Taking
the qth powers gives us the subgroup Gq ⊂G, and F = ⟨f⟩⊂G is the unique
subgroup of order q. Hence, G factors as G ≃Gq × F. While G acts as base
group, we are more interested in the cyclic subgroup G ⊂G of order n := q · s.
Whereas elements of G are eﬃciently recognizable, this does not hold for ele-
ments of G ⊂G. Again, Gq = ⟨gq⟩denotes the (cyclic) subgroup of qth powers,
and G factors as G ≃Gq × F with g := gq · f being a generator of G. Given the
output of CLGen, the second algorithm CLSolve deterministically and eﬃciently
solves the discrete logarithm problem in the subgroup F.
Distributions. Protocols in the CL framework make use of distributions D and
Dq over the integers, such that {gx | x ←D} and {gx
q | x ←Dq} induce almost
uniform distributions over G and Gq, respectively. E.g., D can be instantiated by
sampling a uniform integer from the interval {0, . . . , q¯s/(4δ)−1}. Then {gx | x ←
D} is δ-close, i.e., has statistical distance at most δ, to the uniform distribution
over G [38, S. 3.1.3]. To get a statistical distance of at most 2−σ, we can set the
upper bound of the interval to q¯s · 2σ−2 −1.
Assumptions. We make use of the well-known unknown order assumption
(ORD) for class groups stating that it is hard to ﬁnd a multiple of ord(h) for any
h ∈( G \ F). We also use the hard subgroup membership assumption (HSM)
by [13] which says random elements of G and Gq are indistinguishable. We refer
to the full version [9] for the formal deﬁnitions of ORD and HSM. The next
assumption says that class groups with no small prime factors in their order are
indistinguishable from class groups in general.
Deﬁnition 1 (Rough Order Assumption). Let λ be a security parameter,
|q| ≥λ prime, C ∈N, and A be a PPT algorithm. Deﬁne Drough
C
to be the uniform
distribution over the set {ρ ∈{0, 1}λ | (q, ¯s, f, gq, G, F; ρ) ←CLGen(1λ, q; ρ) ∧
3 [11, Sec. 3.2] remarks that the randomness used in their instantiation of CLGen is
not crucial for security, but traditionally random discriminants are used for class-
group-based crypto. Hence, we can use publicly known randomness ρ ∈{0, 1}λ.

Secure Multiparty Computation
621
∀prime p < C
:
p ∤ord( G)}, The experiment samples ρ0 ∈R {0, 1}λ, ρ1 ←
Drough
C
, and b ∈R {0, 1}, and runs b∗←A(1λ, ρb, CLSolve(·)). We say A solves
the C-rough order (ROC) problem if it outputs b∗= b. We deﬁne its advantage
AdvROC
A
as its success probability. We say the ROC assumption holds if AdvROC
A
is negligible in λ for all PPT algorithms A.
This is a new assumption, and as such is not yet well studied. Our reasons
for believing it is plausible are as follows: except for 2-powers, we do not know
how to compute any non-trivial information on class group orders despite many
years of research. Furthermore, Cohen and Lenstra [15] give heuristic arguments
indicating that the fraction of discriminants less than some bound B for which
a prime p divides the order of the corresponding class group is roughly the same
as for random integers, as long as p is much smaller than B. This can be taken
as evidence that random class group orders behave similarly to random integers
w.r.t. the sizes of their prime factors. This would mean that a signiﬁcant (and
certainly non-negligible) fraction of class groups have C-rough order, as long as C
is small compared to B, which is certainly the case for our parameters. Thus we
are not comparing class groups in general to a vanishingly small (or even empty)
subset. This also means that if our assumption would fail dramatically, so that
a distinguisher with advantage essentially 1 was found, this would actually be
great news, as this would allow us to sample class groups with rough order by
trial and error.
Another thing to note is that the challenger in the security game correspond-
ing to the assumption is not eﬃcient, as we do not know how to sample class
groups with C-rough order eﬃciently. This means the assumption has to be used
with care, as indeed we do: the assumption is only used in the proof and nothing
that would need to be implemented depends on the challenger. Incidentally, we
are not the ﬁrst to propose such an assumption: the gap-DDH assumption also
has an ineﬃcient challenger [33].
Proofs and Arguments in the CL Framework. [10] give a Σ-like protocol
to prove knowledge of plaintext and randomness corresponding to ciphertexts
of the HSM-CL encryption scheme of [13] (see Sect. 3), that can be simpliﬁed
to proofs for discrete logarithms. To allow 2-special soundness in the unknown
order setting, these protocols are restricted to binary challenges and, thus, need
to be repeated to obtain a negligible soundness error.
In [11], the authors overcome this eﬃciency issue by basing the soundness on
computational assumptions. Even with a large challenge spaces they show how
to either extract a witness or to break either the strong root or the low order
assumption. Since we only need limited or no extraction, we base the soundness
of our arguments on the ROC assumption instead.
3
The Linearly Homomorphic Encryption Scheme
In [13], Castagnos et al. presented the HSM-CL linearly homomorphic encryp-
tion scheme, which we denote as Πhsm-cl. It provides IND-CPA security under

622
L. Braun et al.
the HSM assumption. A public key has the form gskcl
q , where the secret key is
sampled as skcl ←Dq. A message m ∈Fq is encrypted with randomness r ←Dq
as Enc(pkcl, m; r) = (gr
q, f m · pkr
cl).
We use ct to denote a ciphertext and overload the · and + operators to
denote homomorphic operations: a · ctx + cty + b denotes a sequence of scalar
multiplication, and addition of ciphertexts and constants without randomization,
and a ·r1
R ctx +r2
R cty +r3
R b is the same sequence randomized with r1, r2, r3 (which
we might omit if not explicitly needed).
We need to make some modiﬁcation to the original HSM-CL encryption
scheme Πhsm-cl to make it work with our protocols and the proof strategy for
our MPC protocol. The new procedures are speciﬁed in Fig. 1. Starting from
the original scheme Πhsm-cl = (Setup, KeyGen, Enc, Dec), we construct the new
encryption scheme Π∗
hsm-cl in two steps:
1. The original KeyGen procedure samples key pairs that are distributed almost-
uniformly in Gq. Our distributed key generation protocol, however, allows the
adversary to bias the distribution of the generated keys, as we will discuss
in Sect. 6. We show that despite this bias the encryption scheme Π1
hsm-cl :=
(Setup, BiasedKeyGenA, Enc, Dec) is still secure.
2. The proof strategy for our MPC protocol (given in Sect. 7) follows [21] and
requires an encryption scheme with a particular property: There needs to be
a second key generation algorithm that produces lossy public keys. These
need to be indistinguishable to normal public keys, but encryptions under
these keys should be statistically indistinguishable to encryptions of zero.
Hence, we deﬁne a special key generation algorithm BiasedSpecialKeyGenA
b
that outputs a public key 
pkcl which includes a ciphertext ctP which is an
encryption of b. In the real protocol b = 1 so encryption with SEnc uses
the homomorphic property to multiply the message with ctP . In the proof,
when b = 0, a lossy public key is produced instead. Therefore, encrypting an
arbitrary message always results in an encryption of 0. Moreover, during the
generation of ctP the adversary can once more bias the distribution, which
also needs to be handled by the security proof. Our ﬁnal encryption scheme
is deﬁned as Π∗
hsm-cl := (Setup, BiasedSpecialKeyGenA
1 , SEnc, Dec).
The main result of this section is the following Theorem 1. In the following, we
prove a series of lemmas that, when combined, yield the theorem as a corollary.
Theorem 1 (Security of Π∗
hsm-cl). Under the HSM assumption, Π∗
hsm-cl
1. provides indistinguishability under chosen-plaintext attacks (IND-CPA), and
2. has lossy public keys which are indistinguishable from real public keys.
Handling Biased Keys. Our eﬃcient distributed key generation protocol
allows the adversary to bias the distribution of the keys. We prove that the
bias does not aﬀect the security, and exploit the homomorphic properties to
reduce its security to that of Πhsm-cl.

Secure Multiparty Computation
623
BiasedKeyGenA(ppcl)
1. Sample α ←Dq.
2. Set pk∗
cl := gα
q .
3. δ ←A(ppcl, pk∗
cl).
4. skcl := α + δ and
pkcl := gskcl
q
= gα+δ
q
.
5. Output (pkcl, skcl).
SEnc(
pkcl, m ∈Fq; r)
1. Parse 
pkcl = (pkcl, ctP ).
2. Output ct := m ·r
R ctP .
BiasedSpecialKeyGenA
b (ppcl) for b ∈{0, 1}
1. (pkcl, skcl) ←BiasedKeyGenA(ppcl).
2. Sample β ←Dq.
3. Set ct∗
P := (gβ
q , f b · pkβ
cl).
4. ε ←A(ppcl, pkcl, ct∗
P ).
5. 
pkcl := (pkcl, (gβ+ε
q
, f b · pkβ+ε
cl
)).
6. Output (
pkcl, skcl).
Fig. 1. Modiﬁed key generation, and encryption algorithms that allow an adversary
A to inﬂuence the distribution of public keys in a limited way.
Lemma 2 (IND-CPA Security of Π1
hsm-cl).
If Πhsm-cl is indistinguishabile
under chosen-plaintext attacks (IND-CPA) then so is Π1
hsm-cl.
Proof. We prove the claim by showing that any adversary B that wins the IND-
CPA game for Π1
hsm-cl with advantage Advhsm-cl,1
B
can be transformed into an
adversary A for Πhsm-cl with the same advantage Advhsm-cl
A
= Advhsm-cl,1
B
. Given
an adversary B, we create A as follows: Initially A receives public parameters
ppcl and a public key pkcl from the challenger. It gives pkcl to B, which responds
with δ. Deﬁne the biased public key pk′
cl := pkcl · gδ
q. This phase corresponds
to the BiasedKeyGenB(ppcl) procedure. Then B selects m0, m1 ∈Fq, which A
forwards to the challenger. The challenger samples b ∈R {0, 1}, encrypts mb and
sends the resulting ct = (ct1, ct2) to A. A sends ct′ = (ct′
1, ct′
2) = (ct1, ct2 · ctδ
1)
to B. Finally, B outputs a bit b′ ∈{0, 1}, and A forwards this output to the
challenger.
The challenger creates the ciphertext ct = (gr
q, pkr
cl · f mb), where r denotes
the randomness used during the encryption. We have pk′
cl = pkcl · gδ
q and
ct′ =

gr
q, (pkr
cl · f mb) · (gr
q)δ
=

gr
q, (pkcl · gδ
q)r · f mb
=

gr
q, (pk′
cl)r · f mb
.
Therefore, ct′ is a valid encryption of mb under the biased public key pk′
cl with
the same distribution as it would normally have. Overall, A wins the game iﬀB
answers correctly, which happens with probability 1/2 + Advhsm-cl,1
B
. Hence, the
advantage in the case of biased keys is the same as in the standard scheme.
⊓⊔
Special Public Keys. In Fig. 1 we specify the key generation algorithm
BiasedSpecialKeyGenA
b parametrized by a bit b ∈{0, 1}. BiasedSpecialKeyGenA
1
produces working public keys, whereas BiasedSpecialKeyGenA
0
produces lossy
public keys. Each special public key 
pkcl consists of a normal public key pkcl
and a ciphertext ctP that is an encryption of b ∈{0, 1}. First we show that
the distributions of working public keys (b = 1) and lossy public keys (b = 0)
produced by BiasedSpecialKeyGenA
b are indistinguishable.

624
L. Braun et al.
Lemma 3 (Π∗
hsm-cl has Indistinguishable Lossy Keys). If Π1
hsm-cl is IND-
CPA secure, then Π∗
hsm-cl has lossy public keys which are indistinguishable from
real public keys.
Since working and lossy public keys are encryptions of 1 and 0, an eﬃcient
distinguisher would break IND-CPA security of Π1
hsm-cl. The complete proof is
given in the full version [9]. Now we show that the ﬁnal encryption scheme Π∗
hsm-cl
is actually IND-CPA secure.
Lemma 4 (IND-CPA Security of Π∗
hsm-cl). If Π∗
hsm-cl has indistinguishable
lossy public keys as deﬁned in Lemma 3, then Π∗
hsm-cl provides indistinguishability
under chosen-plaintext attacks (IND-CPA).
IND-CPA security of Π∗
hsm-cl follows from the fact that real keys are indistin-
guishable from lossy keys, and the fact that when lossy keys are used then the
encryptions are (statistically) independent of the encrypted message. The full
proof is given in the full version [9]. Now Theorem 1 follows as a corollary of the
lemmas in this section.
4
Secret Sharing over the Integers
For our threshold encryption scheme in Sect. 6, we need a threshold secret sharing
scheme to share a secret key of the Π∗
hsm-cl encryption scheme. Any majority of
at least t+1 > N/2 parties needs to be able to (implicitly) reconstruct the secret
key to decrypt ciphertexts.
Since we work in an unknown order setting, the secret key of Π∗
hsm-cl is an
integer and not a ﬁeld element. Hence, the standard Shamir’s secret sharing
scheme [37] over a ﬁnite ﬁeld does not work for us: We need a secret sharing
scheme that is suitable for sharing integers (from a bounded interval). Moreover,
Lagrange interpolation requires division, but we cannot simply divide modulo
the unknown group order to reconstruct the secret key in the exponent.
Similar problems have appeared in the construction of threshold RSA sys-
tems, where the group order is also unknown unless the factorization of the
modulus is revealed [23,27,36]. It is usually solved by multiplying the Lagrange
coeﬃcients with a suitable factor to eliminate the denominator. We also use a
Shamir-style secret sharing scheme over Z with a polynomial of degree t.
The next challenge is to make sure that the dealer distributes consistent
shares that allow reconstruction of the secret, and that during reconstruction
every party publishes its correct share. We use a variant of Feldman’s veriﬁable
secret sharing scheme [25] adapted to the our class group setting in a similar
way as [36] for threshold RSA.
Secret Sharing over Z. To share a secret from a bounded range α ∈[0, 2ℓ) with
(t+1)-out-of-N reconstruction, we could use a random degree-t polynomial f(X)
such that f(0) = α and giving Pi the share yi := f(i) for i ∈[N]. First, note
that f(i) reveals α mod i. Hence, we share ˜α := α · Δ instead, where Δ := N!.
Then, we also need to make sure that the random coeﬃcients of f are sampled
from a large enough interval to hide α.

Secure Multiparty Computation
625
Protocol 1 (Shamir’s Secret Sharing over Z). Let N be the number of parties, t
the corruption threshold, ℓa bound on the secret size, and σ a statistical security
parameter. Moreover, let ℓ0 ∈N be a parameter. To share a secret α ∈[0, 2ℓ)
the dealer proceeds as follows:
1. Let ˜α := α · Δ with Δ := N!.
2. Sample r = (r1, . . . , rt) ∈R [0, 2ℓ0+σ)t
3. Set f(X) := ˜α + r1 · X + · · · + rt · Xt.
4. Send yi := f(i) over a private channel to party Pi for i ∈[N].
We denote this as Share(α, r) when α is shared using the random coins r, and
use Sharei(α, r) to denote the share of Pi.
Privacy. Statistically no information about the shared secret should be revealed
by any set of up to t shares. We formally deﬁne and prove privacy for Protocol 1
in the full version [9], similarly to linear integer secret sharing schemes [19,22].4
Integer Reconstruction. By Lagrange interpolation, any subset S of at least
t + 1 parties can combine their shares to reconstruct the secret. We have
f(X) =

i∈S
yi · ℓS
i (X)
with
ℓS
i (X) =

j∈S\{i}
xj −X
xj −xi
.
(1)
We also write the Lagrange coeﬃcients at 0 (jointly often referred to as recon-
struction vector) as ℓS
i := ℓS
i (0). Clearly reconstruction also works for integer
polynomials f, but the Lagrange coeﬃcients are not necessarily integers. If we
need to reconstruct without division, then we can multiply Lagrange coeﬃcients
by Δ, since Δ · ℓS
i (X) ∈Z[X] for all i and S, although we are reconstructing
the value Δ · f(X) instead of f(X). Hence, we can use Shamir’s secret sharing
over the integers to reconstruct a secret α · Δ2 in the exponent of a group ele-
ment with unknown order. Similarly, we can also recover the polynomial itself
from a suﬃcient number of shares. In the full version [9] we show that we can
reconstruct Δ · f by using Z linear combinations of the shares.
Feldman VSS. We now adapt Feldman’s veriﬁable secret sharing scheme [25]
to the class group setting. In [36], Rabin has already provided a variant of this
for threshold RSA, but our techniques are slightly diﬀerent.5 In the following, we
assume that public parameters ppcl are given together with a designated group
element gF ∈( G \ F).
Protocol 2 (Feldman VSS). To share a secret α ∈[0, 2ℓ), the dealer shares it
as (y1, . . . , yN) ←Share(α, r) (see Protocol 1). It sends yi privately to Pi, and
4 We can see Protocol 1 as a linear integer secret sharing (LISS) [19,22] variant, with
the diﬀerence that we reconstruct α · Δ2 The distribution matrix is a Vandermonde
matrix, and the distribution vector is the vector of coeﬃcients of the polynomial.
5 [36] uses generators g0, g := gΔ2
0
of maximal order in Z∗
n and then g as base in
the Feldman scheme. Rabin does not prove the reconstruction property, but claims
it follows directly from Feldman’s work. We could not reproduce the proof and,
therefore, use a slightly diﬀerent construction.

626
L. Braun et al.
additionally, broadcasts values C0 := gα
F and Ck := gΔ·rk
F
for k ∈[t], where
Δ := N!. Party Pi veriﬁes its share yi by checking that
gΔ·yi
F
?= CΔ2
0
·
t

k=1
(Ck)(ik)
(2)
holds, and broadcasts a complaint otherwise. Moreover, the dealer needs to
prove in zero-knowledge that C0, . . . , Ct ∈⟨gF⟩, e.g., by proving knowledge
of discrete logarithms of all Ci to base gF. During reconstruction, Eq. (2)
can be used to verify that the parties publish the correct shares. For the
sharing procedure we write (y1, . . . , yN; C0, . . . , Ct) ←F-Share(α; r; gF), and
{⊥, ⊤} ←F-Check(i, yi; C0, . . . , Ct; gF) denotes the veriﬁcation.
We prove in the full version [9] that Protocol 2 has the desired reconstruction
properties:
Lemma 5 (Feldman Reconstruction).
If gcd(Δ, ord(gF)) = 1, and under
the (ORD) assumption, we have
(i) Given C0, . . . , Ct ∈⟨gF⟩, a proof of knowledge of the discrete logarithm of
C0, and t + 1 shares yi1, . . . , yit+1 such that Equation (2) holds. Then there
exists an eﬃcient algorithm which the parties can use to ﬁnd (except with
negligible probability) a value α ∈Z such that C0 = gα
F .
(ii) Moreover, any collection of t+1 shares which pass the check in Equation (2)
can be used to recover the same value α (mod ord(gF)).
Why is the assumption gcd(Δ, ord(gF)) sensible? To obtain such a gF, one
can raise a given element g′
F ∈G \ F to large enough powers of all primes up to
N. This eliminates all small prime factors in the order of gF. Otherwise, if a base
gF ∈Gq is already given, one can rely on the RON+1 assumption (Deﬁnition 1).
This allows us to pretend that gcd(Δ, ord(gF)) = 1 holds, because the adversary
cannot distinguish the two cases.
Simulating VSS with Fixed C0. In the simulation of higher level protocols
(see Sect. 6), we need to fake a Feldman VSS towards the adversary where the
checking value C0 cannot be chosen freely, but needs to be a prescribed value.
First, we use Protocol 1 to share an arbitrary value ˜α such that the corrupted
parties obtains shares (x1, y1), . . . , (xt, yt) ∈Z2, We use the following lemma,
which we prove in the full version [9], to ﬁnd values C1, . . . , Ct ∈⟨gF⟩that
matches the adversary’s view:
Lemma 6 (Feldman Simulation). Given C0 ∈⟨gF⟩and (x1, y1), . . . , (xt, yt)
∈Z2, 1 ≤x1 < · · · < xt ≤N, we can eﬃciently ﬁnd C1, . . . , Ct ∈⟨gF⟩such
that F-Check(xj, yj; C0, . . . , Ct, gF) is satisﬁed for all (xj, yj), j ∈[t]. Moreover,
the values C1, . . . , Ct ∈⟨gF⟩have, conditioned on C0 and (xj, yj)j∈[t], the same
distribution as produced by F-Share.
5
Zero-Knowledge
For our protocols we need zero-knowledge arguments for several diﬀerent rela-
tions. First, we need arguments for the discrete logarithm and equal discrete

Secure Multiparty Computation
627
logarithm relations, RDLog and REqDLog. These relations are deﬁned with respect
to CL public parameters ppcl which we leave implicit in the notation.
RDLog :=

(g, h); x
		 g, h ∈G ∧x ∈Z ∧h = gx
(3)
REqDLog :=

(g1, g2, h1, h2); x
		 ((gi, hi); x) ∈RDLog for i = 1, 2

(4)
We use Πbin
DLog and Πbin
EqDLog to denote the standard Σ protocols for these relations
with binary challenges and parallel repetitions. Then, we also need proofs of
plaintext knowledge (PoPK) for Π∗
hsm-cl ciphertexts, that allow the extraction
of the plaintext, as well as proofs of correct multiplication (PoCM). We use Σ-
like protocols [16], which can be speciﬁed by three PPT algorithms (Commit,
Respond, Verify) and a challenge space. In this work we consider zero-knowledge
arguments of the same shape that satisfy statistical special honest-veriﬁer zero-
knowledge (SHVZK) and completeness for witnesses of a bounded size, as well
as computational soundness for language membership, since in most cases it is
not necessary to extract the (full) witness. Formal deﬁnitions are given in the
full version [9]. In Sect. 5 we obtain arguments for general relations of class group
elements, and Sect. 5 covers the protocols for Π∗
hsm-cl ciphertexts.
ZK Arguments for General Relations. Here we consider proofs for general
relations R, which are conjunctions of n statements containing m secrets:
R =

(Yi, Xi)i∈[n]; w

n

i=1

Yi =
m

j=1
X
wj
i,j

∧all X ∈	Gn(m+1) ∧w ∈Zm
.
(5)
The statement X := (Yi, Xi)i∈[n] consists of elements of G either deﬁned by the
context, or chosen by P, and the witness w usually consists of integers from a
bounded range wj ∈[−S, +S]. The protocols are sound with respect to R, but
completeness and SHVZK are only guaranteed for witnesses from this interval.6
For such a relation, we can write the canonical Σ protocol CΣP(R) where
A, C ∈N are parameters:
– Commit(X, w): Sample stt := (r1, . . . , rm) ∈R
[A]m, compute ti
:=
m
j=1 Xrj
i,j for i ∈[n], and output (stt, com := (ti)i∈[n]).
– The challenge is sampled chl ∈R [C].
– Respond(X, w, stt, chl): Compute uj := rj + chl · wj for j ∈[m], and output
res := (u1, . . . , um).
– Verify(X, com, chl, res): If Yi, Xi,j
∈
G for i
∈
[n], j
∈
[m], uj
∈
[−SC, +SC + A] for j ∈[m], and ti · Y chl
i
= m
j=1 Xuj
i,j for i ∈[n] out-
put ⊤, otherwise ⊥.
– Simulate(X, chl): Sample res := (u1, . . . , um) ∈R [−SC, +SC + A]m, com-
pute ti := Y −chl
i
· 
j∈[m] Xuj
i,j for i ∈[n], and output

com := (ti)i∈[n], res

.
For this class of protocols, we can show the following properties:
6 For simplicity, we use the same bounds [−S, +S] for each secret, but we could also
specify separate bounds for each secret sj ∈[−Sj, +Sj] and sample the randomness
rj ∈R [Aj] s.t. SjC/Aj is negligible for every j ∈[m]. This makes the protocol
description more complicated, but it would be more eﬃcient when we have secrets
of diﬀerent sizes.

628
L. Braun et al.
Theorem 7. If R be a relation as described in Eq. 5, then:
(i) CΣP(R) is sound for R with soundness error 1/C + negl(λ) under the ROC
assumption. 7
(ii) CΣP(R) is complete for R if w ∈[−S, +S]m.
(iii) CΣP(R) is statistical special honest-veriﬁer zero-knowledge if w
∈
[−S, +S]m and SC/A is negligible.
Proof. While the proofs of completeness and SHVZK are standard (given in the
full version [9]), the soundness proof (i) is more involved and relies on our ROC
assumption:
Consider a malicious PPT prover P∗that generates an instance X such that
there is no witness w such that (X, w) ∈R. Now P∗can guess V’s random
challenge chl ∈R [C] with probability 1/C and use the simulator (cf. (iii)) to
obtain a transcript which makes V accept.
Assume towards contradiction that P∗had a success probability that is
strictly larger than 1/C, and suppose ord( G) was C-rough. Then, by averag-
ing, there exists a ﬁrst message com such that there exist third messages res, res′
for two diﬀerent challenges chl ̸= chl′ such that V accepts both (com, chl, res)
and (com, chl′, res′).
Note that all relevant group elements live in the subgroup ⟨Yi, Xi,j⟩i,j ⊆G.
Let ℓ:= ord(⟨Yi, Xi,j⟩i,j) | 
i ord(Yi)·
i,j ord(Xi,j). Since ord( G) is C-rough, ℓ
must also be C-rough. Hence, as |chl−chl′| < C, (chl−chl′) is invertible modulo ℓ,
i.e., we can ﬁnd an integer (chl−chl′)−1 ∈Z such that (chl−chl′)·(chl−chl′)−1 = 1
(mod ℓ). Therefore we have

ti · Y chl
i
=

i∈[m]
Xuj
i,j

∧

ti · Y chl′
i
=

i∈[m]
X
u′
j
i,j

=⇒
Y chl−chl′
i
=

i∈[m]
X
uj−u′
j
i,j
⇐⇒Yi =

i∈[m]
X
(uj−u′
j)·(chl−chl′)−1
i,j
,
where all the exponents are considered integers. By setting wj := (uj −u′
j) ·
(chl −chl′)−1 for j ∈[m] and w := (w1, . . . , wm) we have found a witness such
that (X, w) ∈R and, therefore, reached a contradiction.
So such a P∗cannot exist or ord( G) is not C-rough after all. Hence, if we
had such a P∗, we could distinguish groups G that do not have a C-rough order.
By the ROC assumption, such a distinguisher has at most negligible advantage.
We conclude that CΣP(R) has a soundness error of 1/C + negl(λ).
⊓⊔
Corollary 8. The protocols ΠDLog:=CΣP(RDLog) and ΠEqDLog:=CΣP(REqDLog)
are zero-knowledge arguments with D := [−S, +S] for the relations RDLog and
REqDLog, respectively.
7 Note that the soundness property does not require the existence of a witness w such
that each wj is within the range [−S, +S].

Secure Multiparty Computation
629
Proofs of Plaintext Knowledge and Correct Multiplication. For our
MPC protocol in Sect. 7, we need additional protocols that are not only sound,
but also allow for partial extraction of the witnesses. First, we need the parties
to prove that whenever they publish a ciphertext, it is a) well-formed and b)
they know the corresponding plaintext.
REnc = {ct; (m, s) | ct1 = ctm
P 1 · ˜gs
q ∧ct2 = ctm
P 2 · pks
cl}
(6)
The relation REnc is parametrized by public parameters ppcl and a special public
key 
pkcl = (pkcl, ctP ), where ctP = (ctP 1, ctP 2) is an encryption of 1 (or 0 in
the case of a lossy public key, see Sect. 3), but we generally omit them from the
notation. We do not require a full argument of knowledge, since we only need to
extract the encrypted message a ∈Fq, but not the randomness s. Therefore, we
give a specialized deﬁnition:
Deﬁnition 2 (Proof of Plaintext Knowledge). Let Π be a zero-knowledge
argument for the relation REnc (Equation (6)) (deﬁned for a valid public key

pkcl) with witness domain D := Fq × dom(Dq). Let skcl be a secret key matching
the public key in REnc. We say Π is a Proof of Plaintext Knowledge (PoPK) if
additionally there exists an eﬃcient algorithm Extract and the following holds:
Given two accepting transcripts (com, chl, res), (com, chl′, res′) corresponding to a
ciphertext ct such that chl ̸= chl′, then
(i) ct can be correctly decrypted Dec(skcl, ct) = m ∈Fq,
(ii) and the same value m can be extracted from the transcripts:
Extract(ct, (com, chl, res), (com, chl′, res′)) = m.
We show in the full version [9] that the canonical protocol CΣP(REnc) satisﬁes
the above condition and deﬁne the corresponding extractor Extract. Extraction
of the message m ∈Fq works, because it appears in the exponent of f of known
order q. We cannot extract the randomness s, however, since we can neither
invert chl −chl′ modulo the unknown order of gq nor expect division over the
integers to work. However, by using the ROC assumption we are able to pretend
that certain inverses exist modulo ord(gq).
Theorem 9. The protocol ΠPoPK := CΣP(REnc) is a Proof of Plaintext Knowl-
edge under the ROC assumption.
In the multiplication part of our MPC protocol, a party needs to multiply a
publicly known ciphertext ctb (which we assume to be valid) with a private value
a ∈Fq that is additionally encrypted as cta to produce a new ciphertext ctc.
We formalize this in the following relation, where s is the randomness used to
encrypt a, and s′ is the randomness used to randomize the resulting ciphertext.
RMult = {(cta, ctb, ctc); (a, s, s′) | (cta; (a, s)) ∈REnc ∧
ctc,1 = cta
b,1 · ˜gs′
q ∧ctc,2 = cta
b,2 · pks′
cl }
(7)
Deﬁnition 3 (Proof
of
Correct
Multiplication).
Let Π be a zero-
knowledge argument for the relation RMult (Eq. (7)) (deﬁned for a valid public

630
L. Braun et al.
key 
pkcl) with witness domain D := Fq × dom(Dq)2. We say Π is a Proof of
Correct Multiplication (PoCM) if additionally it satisﬁes the PoPK extraction
property (Deﬁnition 2) with respect to cta.
Since RMult is an extension of REnc, Theorem 9 immediately carries over:
Corollary 10. The protocol ΠMult := CΣP(RMult) is a Proof of Correct Multi-
plication under the ROC assumption.
6
Threshold Linearly Homomorphic Encryption
Here, we present our novel threshold encryption scheme based on the linearly
homomorphic encryption scheme Πhsm-cl of [11,13]. To obtain a more eﬃcient
protocol we use the modiﬁed Π∗
hsm-cl encryption scheme (Sect. 3).
Ideal Functionality. We specify a UC functionality FTE in Fig. 2. Apart from
the Init procedure, it allows the parties to generate a key pair (
pkcl, skcl) such that
the special public key 
pkcl is made public, but nobody learns the corresponding
secret key skcl. The KeyGen method allows the simulator S to inﬂuence the dis-
tribution of the generated key pair as speciﬁed by BiasedSpecialKeyGenS
1 (Fig. 1).
Moreover, the functionality allows parties to decrypt Πhsm-cl ciphertexts using
the stored secret key. Deﬁning a single functionality that contains both the key
generation and the decryption simpliﬁes the simulation proof, since the environ-
ment never sees the honest parties’ shares of the secret key. A similar approach
is taken, e.g., in [1] for UC threshold Schnorr signatures.
Ideal Threshold Encryption Functionality FTE
Init On input (Init, 1λ, q) from all parties, FTE generates ppcl ←CLGen(1λ, q).
It stores ppcl and outputs them to all parties. This method must be called
exactly once, and before any other call.
KeyGen On
input
(KeyGen)
from
all
parties,
FTE
runs
(
pkcl, skcl)
←
BiasedSpecialKeyGenS
1 (ppcl) with S. When S responds with continue, FTE
sends 
pkcl to all parties. This method must be called exactly once, and
before any call to Decrypt.
Decrypt On input (Decrypt, ct = (ct1, ct2) ∈
	G2) from all parties, FTE
computes M := ct2 · ct−skcl
1
and sends M to S.a If S responds with
abort, FTE aborts. Otherwise, if it responds with continue, FTE sends
m ←CLSolve(ppcl, M) to all parties.
a We leak M instead of m to also be able to simulate the decryption in case
ct is not a valid ciphertext since if M ̸∈F =⇒CLSolve(ppcl, M) = ⊥.
Fig. 2. Ideal Threshold Encryption Functionality

Secure Multiparty Computation
631
Protocol ΠTE (Part I)
The parties maintain a set Q of qualiﬁed parties initially containing all parties.
After a party gets disqualiﬁed, it will be ignored by all honest parties.
Init Send (Gen, 1λ, q) to FCL which returns ppcl = (q, ¯s, f, gq, 	G, F; ρ).
KeyGen
1. Generation of a key pair (pkcl, skcl). All Pi proceed in parallel:
(a) Sample the contribution to the secret key αi ←Dq.
(b) Share αi as (yi,1, . . . , yi,N; Ci,0, . . . , Ci,t) ←F-Share(αi; ri; gq). such
that yi,j is privately sent to Pj, and Ci,0, . . . , Ci,t are broadcasted.
(c) Compute (com1
i,k, stt1
i,k) ←ΠDLog.Commit(Ci,k, ri,k) for k ∈[t] and
(com1
i,0, stt1
i,0) ←Πbin
DLog.Commit(Ci,0, αi). Broadcast (com1
i,k)k∈[0,t].
(d) Send (Rand, [C]) to FRand so that all parties receive chl1 ∈R [C].
(e) Broadcast res1
i,k ←ΠDLog.Respond(Ci,k, ri,k, stt1
i,k, chl1) for k ∈[t] and
res1
i,0 ←Πbin
DLog.Respond(Ci,0, αi, stt1
i,0, chl1).
(f) Verify shares received from Pj ̸= Pi: Check if
i. F-Check(i, yj,i; Cj,0, . . . , Cj,t; gq)
?= ⊤, and
ii. ΠDLog.Verify(Cj,k, com1
j,k, chl1, res1
j,k)
?= ⊤for all k ∈[t], and
Πbin
DLog.Verify(Cj,0, com1
j,0, chl1, res1
j,0)
?= ⊤.
If only Step 1(f)i failed, then broadcast a complaint against Pj.
(g) For every complaint received by Pj ̸= Pi, broadcast the value yi,j.
(h) If Step 1(f)ii failed for Pj, or if Pj broadcasted a value yj,l in response
to Pl that does not satisfy Step 1(f)i, remove Pj from Q.
2. Computing the public key and shares of the secret key
(a) All parties compute the public key pkcl := 
Pj∈Q Cj,0 where the secret
key is deﬁned as skcl := 
Pj∈Q αi.
(b) Each Pi computes its share γi := 
Pj∈Q yj,i of skcl.
(c) All parties compute Γi := 
Pj∈Q CΔ2
j,0 · t
k=1 C(ik)
j,k
for each Pi.
3. Continued in Figure 4.
Fig. 3. Distributed Key Generation and Decryption protocols for Πhsm-cl
Distributed Key Generation (DKG). We present our protocol in Fig. 3. in
the (FCL, FRand)-hybrid model, where FRand is a standard coin tossing func-
tionality. The DKG protocol consists of two parts: First the parties generate a
key pair (pkcl, skcl) such that the secret key skcl is distributed among all parties.
Then, they generate ctP which is an encryption of 1 under the public key pkcl.
Recall that a key pair is of the form (skcl, pkcl = gskcl
q ), where skcl is a suﬃ-
ciently large random integer. Each party ﬁrst samples their contribution αi to the
secret key, and then uses a variant of Feldman VSS (cf. Sect. 4) with base gq to
share it with all other parties. The properties of the VSS scheme and complaint
resolution guarantee that for every Pi we have either a consistent secret sharing
of αi, or Pi is disqualiﬁed and ignored for the remainder of the key generation.
The secret key is now well-deﬁned as skcl = 
Pi∈Q αi, and each of these αi can

632
L. Braun et al.
Protocol ΠTE (Part II)
KeyGen (continued)
3. Generation of ctP . All Pi proceed in parallel:
(a) Sample the contribution to the randomness βi ←Dq.
(b) Share βi as (zi,1, . . . , zi,N; Di,0, . . . , Di,t) ←F-Share(βi; si; gq) such
that zi,j is privately sent to Pj, and Di,0, . . . , Di,t, D′
i,0 := pkβi
cl
are
broadcasted.
(c) Compute (com2
i,0, stti,0)
←
Πbin
EqDLog.Commit((Di,0, pkcl, D′
i,0), si,0),
and (com2
i,k, stti,k) ←ΠDLog.Commit(Di,k, si,k) for k ∈[1, t], and
broadcast com2
i,0, . . . , com2
i,t.
(d) Send (Rand, [C]) to FRand so that all parties receive chl2 ∈R [C].
(e) Broadcast res2
i,0 ←Πbin
EqDLog.Respond((Di,0, pkcl, D′
i,0), si,0, stt2
i,0, chl2),
and res2
i,k ←ΠDLog.Respond(Di,k, si,k, stt2
i,k, chl2) for k ∈[1, t].
(f) Verify shares received from Pj ̸= Pi: Check if
i. F-Check(j, zj,i; Dj,0, . . . , Dj,t; gq)
?= ⊤, and
ii. Πbin
EqDLog.Verify((Dj,0, pkcl, D′
j,0), com2
i,0, chl2, res2
i,0)
?= ⊤, and
ΠDLog.Verify(Dj,k, com2
j,k, chl2, res2
j,k)
?= ⊤for all k ∈[1, t],
If only Step 3(f)i failed, then broadcast a complaint against Pj.
(g) For every complaint received by Pj ̸= Pi, broadcast the value zi,j.
(h) If Step 3(f)ii failed for Pj, or if Pj broadcasted a value zj,l in response
to Pl that does not satisfy Step 3(f)i, reset Dj,0 := D′
j.0 := 1.
Finally, everyone computes ctP :=
 
Pi∈Q Di,0, f · 
Pi∈Q D′
i,0

.
Decrypt To jointly decrypt a Πhsm-cl ciphertext ct = (ct1, ct2) ∈	G2, all Pi
proceed in parallel as follows:
1. Compute wi := ctγi·Δ
1
and (comi, stti) ←ΠEqDLog.Commit((ct1, Γi, wi), γi ·
Δ). Broadcast wi and comi.
2. Send (Rand, [C]) to FRand so that all parties receive chl ∈R [C].
3. Broadcast resi ←ΠEqDLog.Respond((ct1, Γi, wi), γi · Δ, stti, chl).
4. Deﬁne S := {Pi | ΠEqDLog.Verify((ct1, pkj, wj), comj, chl, resj) = ⊤}.
5. Compute W := 
Pj∈S w
(ℓS
j ·Δ)
j
and M := ctΔ3
2
· W −1.
6. Output m := CLSolve(ppcl, M) · Δ−3 mod q.
Fig. 4. Distributed Key Generation and Decryption protocols for Πhsm-cl
be reconstructed by a majority of all parties. Each party additionally obtains a
share γi of skcl such that any set of at least (t + 1) parties can reconstruct skcl.
Moreover, each party has learned pki := gαi
q
for Pi ∈Q and can compute the
public key as pk = 
Pi∈Q pki. Note that the Feldman VSS already reveals the
parties’ contributions to the public key pki. Hence, a rushing adversary is able
to bias the resulting key based on the honest parties contributions.8
8 The protocol of [28] prevents this kind of bias in the setting of prime-order groups.
We could instantiate their protocol also in the unknown order setting, but the setup
would be signiﬁcantly more complicated.

Secure Multiparty Computation
633
The aim of the second part is to generate a ciphertext ctP = (ct1, ct2) =
(gβ
q , f · pkβ
cl), where β is again a large random value. Since ct1 is basically an
ephemeral public key, the protocol is very similar to the key generation part
of ΠTE: Every party samples their contribution βi to the randomness β, and
proves that their contribution gβi
q
has the right form. The diﬀerence is that
now we also need to compute ct2. Hence, each party also computes pkβi
cl and
uses ΠEqDLog to prove that their contributions to ct1 and ct2 are consistent.
Moreover, parties that misbehave are not disqualiﬁed, but their contributions to
ct1 and ct2 are essentially removed by setting them to 1. While it is not necessary
that βi can be reconstucted by a majority of the parties, we nevertheless share
it with a Feldman VSS. This is only necessary for the proof, since it allows
the simulator to reconstruct the βi of the corrupted Pi ∈C. Alternatively, an
online-extractible proof for the REqDLog relation would suﬃce as well. Finally, the
parties can multiply f into the result to get an encryption of 1.
Distributed Decryption. To decrypt a ciphertext ct, each party Pi computes
a partial decryption wi := ctγi·Δ
1
, and proves that they used their share of skcl
via ΠEqDLog. Since at least t + 1 parties do this honestly, they can reconstruct
skcl in the exponent of ct1 and perform the remainder of the Πhsm-cl decryption.
Theorem 11. The protocol ΠTE (Fig. 3) securely realizes the functionality FTE
(Fig. 2) in the (FCL, FRand)-hybrid model with secure channels and broadcast with
static and computational security tolerating up to t < N/2 corruptions under the
ORD and RON+1 assumptions when 1/C = negl(λ).
Proof. For an explanation of the correctness of the protocol, see the full ver-
sion [9].
Simulation. We set up the simulation as follows: The environment Z selects a
set C of at most t < N/2 parties to corrupt. Z sends (corrupt, Pi) for each Pi ∈C
to the simulator S who forwards it to FTE. Now S controls the communication
of the Pi to FTE. S sets up simulated copies of the all parties, and forwards the
instructions of Z for the corrupted parties to their simulated counterparts.
To prove adaptive security for their DKG protocol, Abe et al. [1] used the
single-inconsistent-player (SIP) variant of UC. We only aim for static security,
but use the same underlying idea in the standard UC model: S selects a dis-
tinguished honest party Ph ∈H, and lets all other honest parties H \ {Ph}
act according to ΠTE. The messages sent by Ph, however, are chosen such that
the resulting view of the environment is consistent with the values output by
FTE. Hence, S does not always know the witnesses needed to perform the zero-
knowledge arguments. Instead it uses the corresponding simulators and programs
the FRand functionality with the used challenges. Since S controls the honest
majority of (simulated) parties, it knows enough shares to extract the contri-
butions αi of the corrupted parties from the VSS. The full S is given in Figs. 5
and 6.
Set of Qualiﬁed Parties and Secret Key are Well-Deﬁned. All honest
parties have computed the same set Q after Step 1h of ΠTE, because disqualiﬁ-

634
L. Braun et al.
Simulator for ΠTE (Part I)
Init Simulate the generation of ppcl by running ppcl ←CLGen(1λ, q).
KeyGen
1. Simulate generation of pkcl. Run BiasedKeyGenS with FTE.
(a) Send (KeyGen) to FTE and receive the intermediate public key pk∗
cl.
(b) For all Pi ∈H \ {Ph}, simulate Steps 1a to 1c according to ΠTE.
(c) For Ph, instead send Ch,0, . . . , Ch,t computed as follows:
i. Sample αh ←Dq and share it as (yh,1, . . . , yh,N) ←Share(αh; rh).
ii. Set Ch,0 := pk∗
cl · 
Pi∈H\{Ph} C−1
i,0 .
iii. Use
Lemma
6
to
get
Ch,1, . . . , Ch,t
such
that
F-Check(j, yh,j; Ch,0, . . . , Ch,t; gq) holds for all Pj ∈C.
iv. Sample chl1 ∈R [C], run (com1
h,0, res1
h,0) ←Πbin
DLog.Simulate(Ch,0, chl1),
and
(com1
h,k, res1
h,k)
←
ΠDLog.Simulate(Ch,k, chl1)
for
k
∈
[t].
Send
(com1
h,k)k∈[0,t]
(d) Receive
shares
and
checking
values
(yi,j; Ci,0, . . . , Ci,t)
and
(com1
i,0, . . . , com1
i,t) from all Pi ∈C for all Pj ∈H.
(e) Simulate the call to FRand and send chl1 to all parties.
(f) For all Pi ∈H\{Ph}, compute res1
i,0 ←Πbin
DLog.Respond(Ci,0, αi, stt1
i,0, chl1)
and res1
i,k
←
ΠDLog.Respond(Ci,k, ri,k, stt1
i,k, chl1) for k
∈
[t]. Send
(res1
i,k)k∈[0,t] for all Pi ∈H and receive (res1
i,k)k∈[0,t] from all Pi ∈C.
(g) Simulate the complaint resolution:
i. Respond honestly to all complaints against honest parties.
ii. Broadcast a complaint on behalf of Pj ∈H if they received an invalid
share yi,j from Pi ∈C.
iii. If a Pi ∈C responds to a complaint with a a corrected value y′
i,j: Remove
Pi from Q if y′
i,j is invalid. Otherwise, reset yi,j := y′
i,j.
(h) Reconstruct αi from the shares {(j, yi,j)}Pj∈H for each Pi ∈C ∩Q.
(i) Set δ := 
Pi∈C∩Q αi, and send δ to FTE.
(j) Deﬁne pkcl := 
Pj∈Q Cj,0 = pk∗
cl · gδ
q, and set γi := 
Pj∈Q yj,i and Γi :=
gγi·Δ
q
for all Pi.
2. Continued in Figure 6.
Fig. 5. Simulator for the key generation protocol in ΠTE
cation of parties depend only on information that was broadcasted, and is thus
consistent among all honest parties. Moreover, no honest party gets disqualiﬁed.
Since honest parties adhere to the protocol, no other honest parties would com-
plain against them. If a corrupted party complains against an honest party, it
will respond with that party’s share which satisﬁes F-Check, so no other honest
party will consider it disqualiﬁed. Let Pi ∈Q be still qualiﬁed party. If Pi ∈H,
then the honest parties have ≥t+1 valid shares of αi. If Pi ∈C is corrupted and
not disqualiﬁed, then it has responded with valid shares to all complaints, and,
by soundness of ΠDLog and Πbin
DLog, we have Ci,0, . . . , Ci,t ∈Gq except with neg-
ligible probability. Thus, each honest party Pj ∈H has either directly received

Secure Multiparty Computation
635
Simulator for ΠTE (Part II)
KeyGen (continued)
2. Simulate
generation
of
ctP .
Continue
of
BiasedSpecialKeyGenS
1 with FTE.
(a) Receive the intermediate ciphertext ct∗
P = (ct∗
1, ct∗
2).
(b) For all Pi ∈H \ {Ph}, Simulate Steps 3a to 3c according to ΠTE:
(c) For Ph, instead send Dh,0, . . . , Dh,t, D′
h,0 computed as follows:
i. Sample βh ←Dq and share it as (zh,1, . . . , zh,N) ←Share(βh; rh).
ii. Set Dh,0 := ct∗
1 · 
Pi∈H\{Ph} D−1
i,0 .
iii. Set D′
h,0 := ct∗
2 · f −1 · 
Pi∈H\{Ph} D′−1
i,0 .
iv. Use
Lemma
6
to
get
Dh,1, . . . , Dh,t
such
that
F-Check(j, zh,j; Dh,0, . . . , Dh,t; gq) holds for all j such that Pj ∈C.
v. Sample chl2 ∈R [C], run
A. (com2
h,0, chl2, res2
h,0) ←Πbin
EqDLog.Simulate((Dh,0, pkcl, D′
h,0), chl2), and
B. (com2
h,k, chl2, res2
h,k) ←ΠDLog.Simulate(Dh,k, chl2) for k ∈[1, t],
and send com2
h,k for k ∈[0, t].
(d) Receive
shares
and
checking
values
(zi,j; Di,0, . . . , Di,t),
D′
i,0,
and
(com2
i,0, . . . , com2
i,t) from all Pi ∈C for all Pj ∈H.
(e) Simulate the call to FRand and send chl2 to all parties.
(f) For all Pi ∈H \ {Ph}, compute
i. res2
i,0 ←Πbin
EqDLog.Respond((Di,0, pkcl, D′
i,0), ri,0, stt2
i,0, chl2), and
ii. res2
i,k ←ΠDLog.Respond(Di,k, ri,k, stt2
i,k, chl2) for k ∈[1, t].
Send res2
i,k for all Pi ∈H and receive res2
i,k from all Pi ∈C (for k ∈[0, t]).
(g) Simulate the complaint resolution as in Step 1g above, but instead of
disqualifying misbehaving Pj ∈C, reset Dj,0 := D′
j.0 := 1 and βj := 0.
(h) Reconstruct βi from the shares {(j, zi,j)}Pj∈H for all other Pi ∈C ∩Q.
(i) Set ε := 
Pi∈C∩Q βi, and send ε to FTE.
(j) Deﬁne ctP :=
 
Pj∈Q Dj,0, F · 
Pj∈Q D′
j,0

=

ct∗
1 · gε
q, ct∗
2 · pkε
cl

. Send
continue to FTE.
Decrypt
1. Send (Decrypt, ct = (ct1, ct2) ∈	G2) on behalf of the corrupted
parties to FTE and receive the partially decrypted message M.
2. Compute M := M Δ3 and W := ctΔ3
2
· M
−1.
3. Set A := {0} ∪{i | Pi ∈C} such that |A| = t + 1.
4. Compute wi := ctγi
1 and wi := wΔ
i for Pi ∈C.
5. Set w0 := ct2 · M −1.
6. Compute wi := w
ℓA
0 (h)·Δ
0
· 
Pj∈C w
ℓA
j (h)·Δ
j
for each Pi ∈H.
7. Sample chl ∈R [C].
8. For all Pi ∈H run (comi, chl, resi) ←ΠEqDLog.Simulate((ct1, Γi, wi), chl).
9. Send (wi, comi) for all Pi ∈H.
10. Simulate the call to FRand and send chl to all parties.
11. Send resi for all Pi ∈H.
12. Send continue to FTE.
Fig. 6. Simulator for the decryption protocol in ΠTE

636
L. Braun et al.
a valid share yi,j from Pi in Step 1b, or a valid share yi,j has been broadcasted
by Pi in Step 1g after Pj had issued a complaint in Step 1f. Hence, the honest
parties know ≥t + 1 consistent shares. By Lemma 5, this determines αi.
We can apply Lemma 5 here, because we use the Feldman VSS with base gq
and we use with Πbin
DLog a proof of knowledge for C0. By the RON+1 assumption
(Def. 1), the parameters ppcl are indistinguishable to parameters where gq has
an order which is co-prime to Δ.
Indistinguishability of the Simulation of KeyGen. Following the KeyGen
protocol, the simulation also consists of two phases: The ﬁrst concerns simulating
the generation of a key pair (pkcl, skcl); the second handles the generation of ctP .
In the following, we cover both parts separately.
In the ﬁrst part, the messages sent by the simulated parties Pi ∈H\{Ph} are
distributed exactly as in the real execution since S lets them behave according
to protocol. The only deviation happens in Step 1c of the simulation:
1. S lets Ph send a value Ch,0 that is distributed correctly given the interme-
diate public key pk∗
cl generated by FTE. The other values Ch,1, . . . , Ch,k are
produced using Lemma 6. Hence, the Ch,1, . . . , Ch,k have the correct distri-
bution given Ch,0 and the corrupted parties’ shares {yj | Pj ∈C}; they are
actually fully determined if |C| = t).
In the real protocol, it holds Ch,0 = gαh
q , where αh is the value shared by
Ph, but in the simulation, Ch,0 and the shared αh are unrelated. Since the
Feldman VSS reveals no other information about αh and the environment
sees at most t shares of the corrupted parties Pi ∈C, it cannot detect the
diﬀerence.
2. Additionally, the proofs by Ph are simulated which is possible, since S can
sample the challenge chl1 in advance and then program FRand to output it in
Step 1e. By SHVZK of ΠDLog and Πbin
DLog, the simulated proofs are indistin-
guishable from normally computed proofs.
Since S controls the honest parties, it has t+1 shares of αi for each qualiﬁed
Pi ∈Q. Thus, S can extract the contributions of the corrupted, but still qualiﬁed
parties’ contributions in Step 1h, and submit their sum δ in Step 1i to FTE to
complete the BiasedKeyGenS procedure.
Note that when S deﬁnes the values γi and Γi for each parties, then, by
construction, (γ1, . . . , γN) is a secret sharing of 
Pi∈Q αi ̸= skcl.
The second half of the simulation is very similar to the ﬁrst. The only dif-
ference is that the parties now need to generate a ciphertext ctP = (ct1, ct2)
consisting of two components. Again the S lets all Pi ∈H \ {Ph} follow the pro-
tocol and chooses Ph’s values such that the honest parties’ contributions match
what FTE outputs as preliminary ciphertext ct∗
P . Then it uses the Feldman shares
to extract the randomness contributions βi from all corrupted parties that were
not caught misbehaving. For all other parties βi is reset to 0 according to the
protocol, so that they become irrelevant.
Hence, we conclude that overall the environment’s view in the KeyGen sim-
ulation is indistinguishable from its view of a real protocol execution.

Secure Multiparty Computation
637
Indistinguishability of the Simulation of Decrypt. First, recall that, in
the simulation, (γ1, . . . , γN) is a secret sharing of α := 
Pi∈Q αi, not of skcl,
which is unknown to S.
If S would let the honest parties execute the protocol using their shares γh,
then the decrypted value will most likely be invalid and not match the output of
FTE, since the ciphertext would essentially be decrypted with a random secret
key α, which is unrelated to skcl. Instead it uses the partially decrypted message
M received from FTE to compute messages wi for Pi ∈H that are consistent with
M and the adversary’s view. Note that the t shares γi of the corrupted parties
Pi ∈C and the actual secret key skcl uniquely deﬁne what the honest parties
need to send, since all points are supposed to lie on some degree-t polynomial ¯f.
Hence, we use Lagrange interpolation in the exponent of ct1 to ﬁnd values
consistent with ¯f such that ¯f(0) = skcl and ¯f(i) = γi for Pi ∈C. By deﬁnition
of M, we have M = ct2 · ct−skcl
1
⇐⇒ctskcl
1
= ct2 · M −1, and set w0 := ct2 · M −1.
If the corrupted parties would behave correctly, they would send wi := ctγi·Δ
1
.
Since Lagrange interpolation in the exponent already adds a factor Δ, we work
with wi := ctγi
1 . For each Pi ∈H, we set
wi := wℓA
0 (i)·Δ
0
·

Pj∈C
w
ℓA
j (i)·Δ
j
= ctskcl·ℓA
0 (i)·Δ
1
·

Pj∈C
ct
γj·ℓA
j (i)·Δ
1
= ct
skcl·ℓA
0 (i)·Δ+
Pj ∈C γj·ℓA
j (i)·Δ
1
= ct
¯
f(j)·Δ
1
.
Hence, wi is exactly, what the adversary expects the honest parties to send given
the view of the corrupted parties and the result of the decryption.
Now S does not know the discrete logarithms of the wi to base ct1, it uses the
SHVZK simulator for ΠEqDLog to simulate proof transcripts in Step 8 for a ran-
domly chosen challenge chl ∈[C], and then programs the simulated FRand to out-
put chl as challenge. By SHVZK, the simulated messages (comi)Pi∈H, (resi)Pi∈H
are statistically indistinguishable from the messages appearing in an honestly
generated proof.
⊓⊔
Guaranteed Output Delivery. Assuming public parameters ppcl available,
our protocol achieves guaranteed output delivery (GOD): The adversary cannot
prevent the honest parties from successfully completing the protocol to generate
a shared key or decrypt a ciphertext. This holds because the simulator S deﬁned
in the proof of Theorem 11 never lets FTE abort, but always instructs it to deliver
the output to the honest parties after a constant number of rounds.
7
MPC
We follow the approach of Damgård et al. [20] and deﬁne an arithmetic black
box functionality (ABB) Fq
ABB for reactive secure computation over the ﬁeld
Fq (formally stated in the full version [9]). It allows parties to privately Input
ﬁeld elements to the ABB and to let it publicly Output stored values to all

638
L. Braun et al.
parties. Moreover, Fq
ABB allows to compute Linear combinations on stored values
with public coeﬃcients, and to Multiply stored values. For all methods, Fq
ABB
conducts the operation if it receives corresponding messages from at least t + 1
parties. This ensures that the (at most) t corrupted parties cannot prevent the
honest parties from proceeding with the computation.
We realize this functionality with the protocol Πq
ABB, and state its security in
Theorem 12. We refer to the full version [9] for the formal protocol speciﬁcation
and the full security proof. The construction of Πq
ABB essentially follows the
CDN [20] paradigm: All values in the computation are encrypted with Π∗
hsm-cl and
the parties use FTE to generate a public key and decrypt ciphertexts. Whenever
a party publishes a ciphertext or performs a multiplication it uses ΠPoPK and
ΠMult to prove correctness. We use that Π∗
hsm-cl has lossy public keys to prove
indistinguishability of the simulation in the SPDZ-style [21].
Theorem 12 (Security of Πq
ABB).
The protocol Πq
ABB securely realizes the
functionality Fq
ABB in the (FRand, FTE)-hybrid model with broadcast with static
and computational security tolerating up to t < N/2 corruptions given that
ΠPoPK and ΠMult are proofs of plaintext knowledge and correct multiplication.
8
YOSO MPC
The YOSO framework (as deﬁned in [29]) is deﬁned for a universe of M players
(servers), and we use their model for computationally secure YOSO protocols.
This concretely means that the parties in the protocol we specify are actually
roles that in an actual execution will be assigned to physical servers by a Role
Assignment Mechanism. It further means that a public encryption key is assigned
to each party (role). In an actual execution, the physical server assigned to play
a role will learn the corresponding secret key, but the adversary will not learn
the identity of the server until it speaks. This mechanism is abstracted away
in the model. We can therefore think of a large set of parties, they each own
a key pair and can only speak once. Furthermore, if we divide the parties into
disjoint committees with N members each, we can assume that each committee
has honest majority if we choose N large enough.
A construction of a role assignment mechanism was presented in [7]. Their
implementation allows us to choose the encryption scheme freely, so in this paper
we will use the CL encryption scheme. However we will use separate class-group
set-up, where the plaintext space is numbers mod q′, where q′ is chosen large
enough compared to q. We will specify below what this means more precisely.
In the YOSO framework, we assume that public information can be reli-
ably posted for everyone to see: the motivation for this is that the framework
is intended for doing MPC on a blockchain. When we say in the following that
something is “publicly known” or “on public display”, this means it has been
posted or can be eﬃciently computed from what is posted. Further, a committee
is only allowed to speak once, that is, committee members decrypt whatever
ciphertext is intended for them, read the public information, post a single mes-
sage and do nothing further. The idea is that this allows us to assume that even

Secure Multiparty Computation
639
an adaptive adversary who can corrupt a large fraction of the physical servers,
will not be able to corrupt a majority of any committee. See [29] for details.
Committees will be denoted by COMi, for i = 0, 1, . . . , and their public
keys will be denoted by pki
1, . . . , pki
N. In the protocol, committees will do their
work in numeric order, starting with COM0. We assume that the role assignment
mechanism is called such that when COMi is about to start, the public keys of
(at least) COMi+1, COMi+2, COMi+3, COMi+4 are publicly known.
In the following, we show how to adapt our honest majority MPC proto-
col to the YOSO setting. For this, we will need non-interactive zero-knowledge
arguments of knowledge (NIAoK) for various statements. Any instantiation will
do, as long as it is simulation extractable9, meaning that you can extract a
witness from a proof that veriﬁes, even if the prover has access to simulated
proofs. We also require that only transparent set-up is needed, as our overall
goal is MPC with transparent set-up. In this paper, we describe Σ-protocols
for all the statements needed, so one approach is to make these non-interactive
using the random oracle model and the Fischlin-transform [26] which will have
the required properties. By careful protocol redesign and analysis, we believe it
would be possible to use the more eﬃcient Fiat-Shamir transform, but leave this
for future work. Another option is to use a recent construction of SNARKS with
transparent set-up based on class groups [3]. We will denote a non-interactive
argument on public instance x and witness w by NIAoK(x, w; eq(x, w)), where
eq(x, w) is the equation that x and w are proven to satisfy.
Key Generation. We assume the speciﬁcation of the class group and the gen-
erators is given (recall that this set-up is transparent). We ﬁrst need a protocol
that allows a committee to obtain shares of a random value η, while leaking only
gη
q to the adversary.
We will need this for key generation, but also for other purposes, and in fact it
is a simple adaptation of Steps 1 and 2 of the distributed key generation protocol
ΠTE (Fig. 3). It involves two committees COMu and COMv, where COMu will
generate the randomness required, and COMv will receive the shares.
The idea is that members of the ﬁrst committee COMu will do a Feld-
man secret-sharing of their contribution to η, see Protocol 2. The shares will
be intended for COMv, so members of COMu will encrypt the shares under
pkv
1, . . . , pkv
N, do a non-interactive ZK proof that these are correct, and post the
ciphertexts and proofs. See the full version [9] for more details. The plaintext
modulus q′ for the pki
v’s is chosen such that q′ is larger than any honestly gener-
ated share. Then members of COMv will add the valid contributions together to
get gη
q and shares of η. The protocol is shown in Fig. 7. Towards understanding
the protocol, note that Pi in the ﬁrst step does an integer secret sharing of ηi as
a part of the Feldman procedure, resulting in shares yi,j. Correctness of a share
can be veriﬁed by the equation gΔyi,j
q
= CΔ2
i,0 · t
k=1 Cjk
i,k, as the right hand side
9 Actually a weak form of extraction (see Sect. 5) will suﬃce, where we only extract a
part of the witness. This is because the MPC protocol we describe here is a simple
adaptation of Πq
ABB for the non-YOSO model.

640
L. Braun et al.
eﬀectively evaluates the underlying polynomial in the exponent. After the pro-
tocol, every party who looks at the public information will be able to compute
gη
q and the Γj’s, using the equations in the last step of the protocol.
Protocol CreateVSS
Create and send shares Each member Pi of COMu samples the contribu-
tion to the secret ηi
←Dq, and samples si,j
←Dq
′. Then it shares
ηi as (yi,1, . . . , yi,N; Ci,0, . . . , Ci,t) ←F-Share(ηi; ri; gq), computes cti,j
=
Enc(pkv
j , yi,j; si,j) for j ∈[N]. Finally, Pi posts:
– (Ci,0, . . . , Ci,t)
– NIAoK(Ci,0, ηi; Ci,0 = gηi
q )
– NIAoK(Ci,k, ri,k; Ci,k = g
Δri,k
q
) for k ∈[t], where Δ = N!
– NIAoK((pkv
j , {Ci,k}, cti,j), (yi,j, si,j); cti,j = Enc(pkv
j , yi,j; si,j), g
Δyi,j
q
=
CΔ2
i,0 · t
k=1 Cjk
i,k), for j ∈[M]
Receive Shares Each member Pj of COMv does the following:
1. Check all the proofs posted by COMu and form a set Q of members (of
COMu) for which the proofs validate (NB: all honest Pj will agree on Q).
2. Decrypt cti,j to get yi,j.
3. Compute a share of η as γj = 
i∈Q yi,j, where η := 
i∈Q ηi.
4. Compute gη
q = 
i∈Q Ci,0.
5. Compute a public veriﬁcation value corresponding to γj, namely
Γj = g
Δγj
q
=

i∈Q
g
Δyi,j
q
=

i∈Q
CΔ2
i,0 ·
t

k=1
Cjk
i,k.
Fig. 7. Create veriﬁable secret-sharing for a committee
Deﬁnition 4. We say that a committee COMℓholds VSS(η; f) if it is the case
that f is an integer polynomial of degree at most t, where f(0) = Δη, each
committee member Pi has a share f(i), and the value gΔf(i)
q
is on public display.
Furthermore, also gη
q is publicly known.
With this notation, the CreateVSS protocol can be described as a protocol
that is executed by two committees COMu and COMv, and which results in
COMv holding VSS(η; f) for some random value η, where only gη
q is leaked to
the adversary. Note that the underlying structure is linearly homomorphic: if a
committee holds VSS(η; f) and VSS(η′; f′), it eﬀectively also holds VSS(η+η′; f +
f′), by adding the underlying shares and multiplying the public values. We use
CreateVSS for distributed key generation (Fig. 8). It needs to be executed by
committees 0–3, as this step must happen before anything else.

Secure Multiparty Computation
641
Protocol DistKeyGen
Create and share the secret key Committees COM0 and COM1 run CreateVSS
so that COM1 holds VSS(η; f), and we set pkcl := gη
q and skcl := η.
Create a special ciphertext The goal is to generate a ciphertext ctP
=
(ct1, ct2) = (gβ
q , f · pkβ
cl), where β is a large random value. Our construction
in Step 3 of ΠTE does this in the standard non-YOSO setting. We adapt it for
YOSO in exactly the same way as we adapted Steps 1 and 2 to get CreateVSS.
The resulting protocol is executed by next two committees COM2, COM3. They
can clearly do this based only on the public key pkcl. As a result, ctP is now on
public display, so now 
pkcl = (pkcl, ctP ) is publicly known.
Fig. 8. Distributed key generation in the YOSO setting
Resharing the Secret Key. We need a protocol for passing the shares of the
secret key from one committee COMv to another committee COMv′. The idea
is for an earlier committee COMu to share the same random value for both
COMv and COMv′, and this will help to do the transfer. The Reshare protocol
(Fig. 9) will be called several times, so the indices u, v, v′ should be thought of
as parameters, that will be determined by the global MPC protocol. Execution
of Reshare adds a factor of Δ to the secret key held by the receiving committee,
but this is not a problem, as we shall see.
Threshold Decryption. Note that our threshold decryption protocol for the
standard setting (Fig. 4) is already a one round protocol, once we make the
proofs of equality of discrete logs non-interactive. We need the protocol to work
for a committee who holds VSS(Δℓskcl, f) for some ℓ, because each execution of
Reshare adds a factor of Δ. This is not a problem, we will obtain the plaintext
times a factor of Δℓmod q, and this factor can be divided out locally.
MPC. To realize the arithmetic black-box functionality in the YOSO setting,
in particular secure multiplication, we follow the standard approach of generat-
ing so-called multiplication triples. That is, triples (ct1, ct2, ct3) of ciphertexts
containing plaintext values a, b, c where a, b are random and c = ab. We ﬁrst
construct a protocol for generating such triples while leaking nothing but the
ciphertexts.
The basic steps of the ﬁnal MPC protocol are found in the full version [9] and
are a straightforward adaptation of Πq
ABB which we described for the standard
non-YOSO model. We assume here a global scheduling of which committees do
the various types of work, where the ﬁrst 4 committees do the key generation.
After this, committees only need to work to do multiplications and output.
Assume we are about to do a number of multiplications on encrypted values
and that COMi is the committee with the largest index who holds shares of
the secret key but has not spoken yet. Now, COMi+1, COMi+2 will generate an
appropriate number of multiplication triples, and COMi+3 will do the ﬁrst part

642
L. Braun et al.
Protocol Reshare
Create mask for the secret key We execute CreateVSS twice, one instance is
done by COMu, COMv and one by COMu, COMv′, with two adjustments: First,
the two instances are correlated such that the shared secret value η is the
same in both cases: as part of CreateVSS, each member Pi must make pub-
lic gηi
q , where ηi is their additive contribution to the secret η. The receiving
committees check that this value is the same in both instances and discard the
contribution if not. Second, each ηi is chosen as a random number of bitlength
σ larger than the maximal length of skcl. Also, the coeﬃcient in the polynomials
used are chosen to be σ bits longer than those used in the DistKeyGen protocol.
Open masked key We can now assume that COMu holds VSS(skcl, f) as well
as VSS(η, g). It therefore also holds VSS(skcl −η, f −g). Each member Pj of
COMu posts its share (f −g)(j). Note that this share can be publicly veriﬁed,
as gΔ·(f−g)(j)
q
is publicly known.
Adjust shares Members of COMu′ can now identify (at least) t + 1 posted
correct shares and reconstruct (by “integer interpolation”) Δ(skcl −η). They
then form VSS(Δ(skcl −η), h0) where h0 is a default polynomial, say the
degree-0 polynomial that always takes the value Δ(skcl −η). This can then
be added to Δ · VSS(η, h) received by the committee in the ﬁrst step to form
VSS(Δskcl, h + h0).
Fig. 9. Transfer secret-sharing to a new committee
of the Reshare protocol, in the role of the auxiliary committee COMu, and using
COMi and COMi+4 as the sending and receiving committees. Now, COMi can do
its part of the multiplication and post the resulting data, as well as data from the
Reshare protocol, allowing COMi+4 to get shares of the secret key. The system
is now ready to do the next layer of multiplications, with COMi+1 assuming the
role COMi played before.
In the full version [9], we sketch how the security of the YOSO version of the
protocol can be argued by a relatively straightforward adaptation of the proof
for the non-YOSO version.
Acknowledgements. This research was supported by the Concordium Blockhain
Research Center, Aarhus University, Denmark, the Carlsberg Foundation under the
Semper Ardens Research Project CF18-112 (BCM), and the European Research Coun-
cil (ERC) under the European Unions’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation pro-
gramme under grant agreement No 803096 (SPEC). We thank Guilhem Castagnos,
Fabien Laguillaumie, and Ida Tucker for clariﬁcations regarding the CL framework.

Secure Multiparty Computation
643
References
1. Abe, M., Fehr, S.: Adaptively secure Feldman VSS and applications to universally-
composable threshold cryptography. In: Franklin, M. (ed.) CRYPTO 2004. LNCS,
vol. 3152, pp. 317–334. Springer, Heidelberg (August 2004). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-540-28628-8_20
2. Abram, D., Damgård, I., Orlandi, C., Scholl, P.: An algebraic framework for silent
preprocessing with trustless setup and active security. In: Dodis, Y., Shrimpton,
T. (eds.) CRYPTO 2022, Part IV. LNCS, vol. 13510, pp. 421–452. Springer, Hei-
delberg (August 2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15985-5_15
3. Arun, A., Ganesh, C., Lokam, S.V., Mopuri, T., Sridhar, S.: Dew: a transparent
constant-sized polynomial commitment scheme. In: Boldyreva, A., Kolesnikov, V.
(eds.) PKC 2023, Part II. LNCS, vol. 13941, pp. 542–571. Springer, Heidelberg
(May 2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-31371-4_19
4. Baum, C., Cozzo, D., Smart, N.P.: Using TopGear in overdrive: a more eﬃcient
ZKPoK for SPDZ. In: Paterson, K.G., Stebila, D. (eds.) SAC 2019. LNCS, vol.
11959, pp. 274–302. Springer, Heidelberg (August 2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-38471-5_12
5. Beaver, D.: Eﬃcient multiparty protocols using circuit randomization. In: Feigen-
baum, J. (ed.) CRYPTO’91. LNCS, vol. 576, pp. 420–432. Springer, Heidelberg
(August 1992). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-46766-1_34
6. Bendlin, R., Damgård, I., Orlandi, C., Zakarias, S.: Semi-homomorphic encryption
and multiparty computation. In: Paterson, K.G. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2011. LNCS,
vol. 6632, pp. 169–188. Springer, Heidelberg (May 2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-642-20465-4_11
7. Benhamouda, F., et al.: Can a public blockchain keep a secret? In: Pass, R.,
Pietrzak, K. (eds.) TCC 2020, Part I. LNCS, vol. 12550, pp. 260–290. Springer,
Heidelberg (November 2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-64375-1_10
8. Boneh, D., Bünz, B., Fisch, B.: A survey of two veriﬁable delay functions. Cryp-
tology ePrint Archive, Report 2018/712 (2018), https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/712
9. Braun, L., Damgård, I., Orlandi, C.: Secure multiparty computation from threshold
encryption based on class groups. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2022/1437
(2022). https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/1437
10. Castagnos, G., Catalano, D., Laguillaumie, F., Savasta, F., Tucker, I.: Two-party
ECDSA from hash proof systems and eﬃcient instantiations. In: Boldyreva, A.,
Micciancio, D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019, Part III. LNCS, vol. 11694, pp. 191–221.
Springer, Heidelberg (August 2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-26954-
8_7
11. Castagnos, G., Catalano, D., Laguillaumie, F., Savasta, F., Tucker, I.: Bandwidth-
eﬃcient threshold EC-DSA. In: Kiayias, A., Kohlweiss, M., Wallden, P., Zikas, V.
(eds.) PKC 2020, Part II. LNCS, vol. 12111, pp. 266–296. Springer, Heidelberg
(May 2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-45388-6_10
12. Castagnos, G., Laguillaumie, F.: Linearly homomorphic encryption from DDH. In:
Nyberg, K. (ed.) CT-RSA 2015. LNCS, vol. 9048, pp. 487–505. Springer, Heidelberg
(April 2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-16715-2_26
13. Castagnos, G., Laguillaumie, F., Tucker, I.: Practical fully secure unrestricted
inner product functional encryption modulo p. In: Peyrin, T., Galbraith, S. (eds.)
ASIACRYPT 2018, Part II. LNCS, vol. 11273, pp. 733–764. Springer, Heidelberg
(December 2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-03329-3_25

644
L. Braun et al.
14. Castagnos, G., Laguillaumie, F., Tucker, I.: Threshold linearly homomorphic
encryption on Z/2kZ. In: Agrawal, S., Lin, D. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2022, Part
II. LNCS, vol. 13792, pp. 99–129. Springer, Heidelberg (December 2022). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-22966-4_4
15. Cohen, H., Lenstra, H.W.: Heuristics on class groups of number ﬁelds. In: Number
Theory Noordwijkerhout 1983 (1984)
16. Cramer, R.: Modular design of secure yet practical cryptographic protocols. Ph.D.
thesis, Universiteit van Amsterdam (1997)
17. Cramer, R., Damgård, I., Nielsen, J.B.: Multiparty computation from threshold
homomorphic encryption. In: Pﬁtzmann, B. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2001. LNCS, vol.
2045, pp. 280–299. Springer, Heidelberg (May 2001). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-
540-44987-6_18
18. Cramer, R., Damgård, I., Schoenmakers, B.: Proofs of partial knowledge and sim-
pliﬁed design of witness hiding protocols. In: Desmedt, Y. (ed.) CRYPTO 1994.
LNCS, vol. 839, pp. 174–187. Springer, Heidelberg (August 1994). https://doi.org/
10.1007/3-540-48658-5_19
19. Cramer, R., Fehr, S.: Optimal black-box secret sharing over arbitrary Abelian
groups. In: Yung, M. (ed.) CRYPTO 2002. LNCS, vol. 2442, pp. 272–287. Springer,
Heidelberg (August 2002). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-45708-9_18
20. Damgård, I., Nielsen, J.B.: Universally composable eﬃcient multiparty computa-
tion from threshold homomorphic encryption. In: Boneh, D. (ed.) CRYPTO 2003.
LNCS, vol. 2729, pp. 247–264. Springer, Heidelberg (August 2003). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-540-45146-4_15
21. Damgård, I., Pastro, V., Smart, N.P., Zakarias, S.: Multiparty computation
from somewhat homomorphic encryption. In: Safavi-Naini, R., Canetti, R. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2012. LNCS, vol. 7417, pp. 643–662. Springer, Heidelberg (August 2012).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-32009-5_38
22. Damgård, I., Thorbek, R.: Linear integer secret sharing and distributed exponen-
tiation. In: Yung, M., Dodis, Y., Kiayias, A., Malkin, T. (eds.) PKC 2006. LNCS,
vol. 3958, pp. 75–90. Springer, Heidelberg (April 2006). https://doi.org/10.1007/
11745853_6
23. Desmedt, Y., Frankel, Y.: Shared generation of authenticators and signatures
(extended abstract). In: Feigenbaum, J. (ed.) CRYPTO’91. LNCS, vol. 576,
pp. 457–469. Springer, Heidelberg (August 1992). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-
46766-1_37
24. Erwig, A., Faust, S., Riahi, S.: Large-scale non-interactive threshold cryptosystems
through anonymity. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2021/1290 (2021), https://
eprint.iacr.org/2021/1290
25. Feldman, P.: A practical scheme for non-interactive veriﬁable secret sharing. In:
28th FOCS. pp. 427–437. IEEE Computer Society Press (October 1987). https://
doi.org/10.1109/SFCS.1987.4
26. Fischlin, M.: Communication-eﬃcient non-interactive proofs of knowledge with
online extractors. In: Shoup, V. (ed.) CRYPTO 2005. LNCS, vol. 3621, pp. 152–
168. Springer, Heidelberg (August 2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/11535218_10
27. Frankel, Y., Gemmell, P., MacKenzie, P.D., Yung, M.: Optimal resilience proactive
public-key cryptosystems. In: 38th FOCS. pp. 384–393. IEEE Computer Society
Press (October 1997). https://doi.org/10.1109/SFCS.1997.646127
28. Gennaro, R., Jarecki, S., Krawczyk, H., Rabin, T.: Secure distributed key genera-
tion for discrete-log based cryptosystems. J. Cryptol. 20(1), 51–83 (2006). https://
doi.org/10.1007/s00145-006-0347-3

Secure Multiparty Computation
645
29. Gentry, C., et al.: YOSO: You only speak once - secure MPC with stateless
ephemeral roles. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) CRYPTO 2021, Part II. LNCS,
vol. 12826, pp. 64–93. Springer, Heidelberg, Virtual Event (August 2021). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84245-1_3
30. Gordon, S.D., Le, P.H., McVicker, D.: Linear communication in malicious majority
MPC. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2022/781 (2022), https://eprint.iacr.org/
2022/781
31. Keller, M., Pastro, V., Rotaru, D.: Overdrive: making SPDZ great again. In:
Nielsen, J.B., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2018, Part III. LNCS, vol. 10822,
pp. 158–189. Springer, Heidelberg (April/May 2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-319-78372-7_6
32. Kolby, S., Ravi, D., Yakoubov, S.: Towards eﬃcient YOSO MPC without setup.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2022/187 (2022), https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/
187
33. Okamoto, T., Pointcheval, D.: The gap-problems: A new class of problems for
the security of cryptographic schemes. In: Kim, K. (ed.) PKC 2001. LNCS, vol.
1992, pp. 104–118. Springer, Heidelberg (February 2001). https://doi.org/10.1007/
3-540-44586-2_8
34. Paillier, P.: Public-key cryptosystems based on composite degree residuosity
classes. In: Stern, J. (ed.) EUROCRYPT’99. LNCS, vol. 1592, pp. 223–238.
Springer, Heidelberg (May 1999). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48910-X_16
35. Pietrzak, K.: Simple veriﬁable delay functions. In: Blum, A. (ed.) ITCS 2019. vol.
124, pp. 60:1–60:15. LIPIcs (Jan 2019). https://doi.org/10.4230/LIPIcs.ITCS.2019.
60
36. Rabin, T.: A simpliﬁed approach to threshold and proactive RSA. In: Krawczyk,
H. (ed.) CRYPTO 1998. LNCS, vol. 1462, pp. 89–104. Springer, Heidelberg (1998).
https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0055722
37. Shamir, A.: How to share a secret. Commun. Assoc. Comput. Mach. 22(11), 612–
613 (1979)
38. Tucker, I.: Chiﬀrement fonctionnel et signatures distribuées fondés sur des fonc-
tions de hachage à projection, l’apport des groupes de classes. Ph.D. thesis, École
normale supérieure de Lyon (2020)
39. Wesolowski, B.: Eﬃcient veriﬁable delay functions. In: Ishai, Y., Rijmen, V. (eds.)
EUROCRYPT 2019, Part III. LNCS, vol. 11478, pp. 379–407. Springer, Heidelberg
(May 2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-17659-4_13

