Solving the Tensor Isomorphism Problem
for Special Orbits with Low Rank Points:
Cryptanalysis and Repair of an Asiacrypt
2023 Commitment Scheme
Valerie Gilchrist1(B), Laurane Marco2, Christophe Petit1,3, and Gang Tang3,4
1 Universit´e Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium
valerie.gilchrist@ulb.be
2 EPFL, Lausanne, Switzerland
3 University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK
4 University of Technology Sydney, Ultimo, NSW, Australia
Abstract. The Tensor Isomorphism Problem (TIP) has been shown
equivalent to the matrix code equivalence problem, making it an interest-
ing candidate on which to build post-quantum cryptographic primitives.
These hard problems have already been used in protocol development.
One of these, MEDS, is currently in Round 1 of NIST’s call for additional
post-quantum digital signatures.
In this work, we consider the TIP restricted to the orbits of a special
class of tensors. The hardness of the decisional version of this prob-
lem is the foundation of a commitment scheme proposed by D’Alconzo,
Flamini, and Gangemi (Asiacrypt 2023). We present polynomial-time
algorithms for the decisional and computational versions of TIP for spe-
cial orbits, which implies that the commitment scheme is not secure.
The key observations of these algorithms are that these special tensors
contain some low-rank points, and their stabilizer groups are not trivial.
With these new developments in the security of TIP in mind, we
give a new commitment scheme based on the general TIP that is non-
interactive, post-quantum, and statistically binding, making no new
assumptions. Such a commitment scheme does not currently exist in
the literature.
1
Introduction
Group actions have proven very useful in the transition to post-quantum cryptog-
raphy. They provide a quantum-safe algebraic operation in certain instantiations,
making it easy to use them as a replacement in previously classical schemes.
Recently, isogenies have been the most well-studied example of a post-quantum
* Authors listed in alphabetical order: see https://www.ams.org/profession/leaders/
CultureStatement04.pdf.
Date of this document: 2024-07-09.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2024
L. Reyzin and D. Stebila (Eds.): CRYPTO 2024, LNCS 14920, pp. 141–173, 2024.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-68376-3_5

142
V. Gilchrist et al.
group action [8,13]. We can ﬁnd, however, group actions from other hard prob-
lems, some of which have already been proposed for use in post-quantum cryp-
tography. Such group actions include alternating trilinear forms [48], lattices
[21], polynomials [41], linear codes [5,16], and tensors [32].
Grochow and Qiao [27] deﬁned the tensor isomorphism class TI, that is, if
a problem is polynomially equivalent to tensor isomorphism, it is TI-complete.
In particular, the alternating trilinear form equivalence problem is TI-complete
[28]. Based on this problem, a signature scheme ALTEQ [9] has recently been
submitted to NIST as a round 1 candidate. The work of [27] shows that three
problems, the matrix code equivalence problem, the trilinear form equivalence
problem, and the tensor isomorphism problem (TIP) are all equivalent. Partic-
ularly given a 3-tensor with dimensions l, m, n, we can naturally represent it as
a [l × m, n]-matrix code. Thus, though our focus in this work will be on TIP,
we will be inherently studying the security of all three of these problems. Two
recent independent works [16,32] proposed using tensor isomorphism (or matrix
code equivalence) for cryptographic purposes from the diﬀerent algebraic struc-
tures of tensors and codes. Very recently, a digital signature scheme, MEDS [15],
based on matrix code equivalence was submitted to the NIST standardization
competition for post-quantum signatures as a round 1 candidate. The security
of MEDS, that is, the algorithm of matrix code equivalence, has been studied in
several works [15,16,18,39,44]. We proceed to brieﬂy review the state-of-the-art
algorithms for matrix code equivalence, and hence TIP.
Algorithms Solving Matrix Code Equivalence. There are three types of algo-
rithms for matrix code equivalence. The ﬁrst ones use algebraic methods,
whereby matrix code equivalence is translated into solving systems of polyno-
mial equations. Gr¨obner basis techniques are often employed for this approach,
albeit with eﬃciency contingent upon the values of l, m and n. Notably, eﬃciency
diminishes signiﬁcantly when these dimensions become slightly large. The sec-
ond is the graph-theoretic algorithm [44], which involves transforming matrix
codes into quadratic mappings, thereby facilitating the adaptation of algorithms
designed for Quadratic Maps Linear Equivalence (QMLE) [10]. Nevertheless,
this approach does not perform well when l = m = n. The last one is the
Leon-like algorithm, which is an adaptation of the code equivalence problem
algorithm on the Hamming metric. The basic idea comes from the observation
that equivalence preserves the Hamming weight as well as the weight distribution
of the codewords. Leon’s [35] algorithm entails ﬁnding the set of codewords with
minimal Hamming weight in two given codes, which can reveal enough infor-
mation to recover the equivalence. Beullens [7] recently improved this algorithm
by building two lists of codewords with a particular weight and then searching
for collisions between them to recover the equivalence. This approach naturally
translated to matrix code [16]: by creating two lists of matrices with low rank in
the two given matrix codes one can then ﬁnd the collision to recover the equiva-
lence. Very recently, Narayanan, Qiao and Tang [39] further improved Beullens’
algorithm and introduced a new invariant called “co-rank1 associated invariant”
that avoids ﬁnding collisions by Gr¨obner basis.

Solving the Tensor Isomorphism Problem
143
In this work, we will consider TIP, but on special orbits. This problem was
ﬁrst introduced at ASIACRYPT 2023 by D’Alconzo, Flamini and Gangemi [20]
in the context of a commitment scheme construction. While the general TIP
considers tensors that are generated randomly, which we call random tensors,
the work of [20] restricts to the use of very particular tensors with a lot of
structure, which we will call unit tensors. Their commitment scheme uses the
orbits of two of these unit tensors, which they conjecture is still secure.
1.1
Our Contributions
In this paper, we propose polynomial-time algorithms for the decisional and
computational versions of TIP on special orbits. This implies that the commit-
ment scheme proposed by D’Alconzo, Flamini and Gangemi in Asiacrypt 2023
is broken. We also propose a countermeasure to ﬁx the commitment scheme. We
summarize our contributions in what follows.
Algorithms for Tensor Isomorphism on Special Orbits. We present a polynomial-
time algorithm for the TIP on special orbits. One observation is that some
low-rank points exist for the tensors on these special orbits. This allows us to
distinguish tensors on two diﬀerent orbits, which implies that the decisional TIP
is broken. Another observation is that the automorphism groups of these unit
tensors are not trivial, that is, they have stabilizers. Therefore, we can avoid
ﬁnding collisions and quickly recover an equivalent isomorphism which solves
the computational TIP.
Regarding the commitment scheme proposed by D’Alconzo, Flamini and
Gangemi, its security is based on the hardness of decisional TIP on these unit
tensors. We implement our algorithms and use them to break the hiding prop-
erty of the scheme, as well as recover the random values used when creating the
commitment. These algorithms render the scheme completely insecure; see more
details in Sect. 3.
Repairing Asiacrypt 2023 Scheme. We provide a countermeasure to repair the
commitment scheme from [20] using random (instead of unit) tensors. Our new
scheme ﬁlls the gap of a post-quantum, non-interactive commitment scheme from
non-transitive group actions, which was the aim of the Asiacrypt 2023 commit-
ment scheme [20], and which is still missing in the literature. We stress that
our new scheme makes no new assumptions, but only depends on already exist-
ing hard problems from random tensors. The scheme we propose is statistically
binding and computationally hiding. We conclude by proposing a zero-knowledge
proof of opening for our new commitment scheme.
Organization. In Sect. 2 we summarize the relevant concepts pertaining to group
actions, tensors, commitment schemes, and the protocol we will be attacking
from [20]. In Sects. 3.1 and 3.2 we discuss low rank points and our attack on the
hiding property of [20], and in Sects. 3.3, 3.4, and 3.5, we compute stabilizers and
give an attack that recovers the full secret. Finally, in Sect. 4, we give a repair

144
V. Gilchrist et al.
on their commitment scheme that preserves the non-interactive structure and
still has statistical binding, with a discussion on relevant zero-knowledge proofs
in Sect. 4.2.
2
Preliminaries
In the rest of this work, we denote by 1A(x) the function taking value 1 if x ∈A
and 0 otherwise. We write PPT to stand for Probabilistic Polynomial Time. We
call a function negligible, written negl(λ), if its absolute value is asymptotically
dominated by O(x−n) for all n > 0.
2.1
Cryptographic Group Actions
Group actions have been of interest in cryptography because they sometimes
provide an easy way to transition classical cryptosystems to post-quantum ones.
The ﬁrst well-studied instance of a group action used in cryptography was in
works from Couveignes [17], and Rostovstev and Stolbunov [45], where they
developed a Diﬃe-Hellman-like key exchange scheme from the isogeny group
action.
The seminal work from Alamati, De Feo, Montgomery, and Patranabis in [1]
generalizes the hard problems taken from the isogeny group action for use with
any group action. In doing so, they establish standard deﬁnitions and notation
that have since been upheld in the ﬁeld, providing a valuable common ground
for proceeding works. To begin, we recall some of these deﬁnitions that will be
relevant to our work.
Deﬁnition 1 (Group action). We say that a group G acts on a set X if there
exists a map ⋆: G × X →X such that :
– Identity: If e is the identity element of G, then for any x ∈X, e ⋆x = x;
– Compatibility: For any g, h ∈G, and any x ∈X, (gh) ⋆x = g ⋆(h ⋆x).
Such a group action can be denoted (G, X, ⋆).
We call a group action transitive if for any two elements x, y ∈X, there
exists a group element g ∈G mapping x to y, i.e. y = g ⋆x. We say a group
action is free if for each g ∈G, g is the identity element if and only if there exists
an element x ∈X such that x = g ⋆x. A group action is called regular if it is
both transitive and free.
Deﬁnition 2 (Orbit). The orbit, Ox, of an element x ∈X, is all the y ∈X
for which there exists an element mapping x to y i.e. Ox = {y ∈X|∃g ∈G,
y = g ⋆x}.
We can reformulate transitivity in terms of orbits: an action is transitive if
for all x, y ∈X, we get that Ox = Oy.
Since we are considering group actions in the context of cryptography, we
will only be concerned with eﬀective group actions.

Solving the Tensor Isomorphism Problem
145
Deﬁnition 3 (Eﬀective group action (EGA)). We call a group action ⋆:
G × X →X eﬀective if the following properties hold:
– G is ﬁnite and there exists a PPT algorithm for the following operations: group
operation, computation of inverses, membership testing, equality testing and
sampling.
– X is ﬁnite and there exists a PPT algorithm for membership testing and for
computing a unique representation of elements in X.
– There exists a distinguished element x0 ∈X such that its bit-string represen-
tation is known. We call this point the origin.
– ⋆can be computed eﬃciently for any g ∈G, x ∈X.
When creating cryptography from group actions, we will want to be able
to actually evaluate the group action, hence we will limit ourselves to EGAs.
In some instances where only a portion of the group or set can be evaluated
eﬃciently, we can restrict to such a subset. This is called a Restricted Eﬀective
Group Action (REGA).
We can impose some additional properties to be fulﬁlled by the group action
in order to build speciﬁc cryprographic constructions. We recall a deﬁnition from
[20] that will be useful later on in this work.
Deﬁnition 4 (Decisional Group Action Inverse Problem). Let (G, X, ⋆)
be a group action, and t0, t1 ∈X lie in distinct orbits. The decisional Group
Action Inverse Problem (dGA-IP) game for (G, X, ⋆) is described in Fig. 1.
For an adversary A against the dGA-IP game, we deﬁne the advantage Adv as
follows:
Adv(A) = Pr[1 ←dGA-IP(A)] −1
2.
dGA-IP(A)
1: c, b
$
0, 1}
2: g, g
$ G
3: s
c
4: if b = 1 then
5:
t
g
6: end if
7: if b = 0 then
8:
t
g
1−c
9: end if
10: b
{
g
t
s
t
A (s, t)
11: return b = b
Fig. 1. The dGA-IP game

146
V. Gilchrist et al.
2.2
Tensors Over Finite Fields
We recall some results on tensors, following the notations introduced in [20].
Fix a ﬁnite ﬁeld Fq for a prime q, and ℓ, m, n positive integers. Then given
bases {ei}l
i=1, {fi}m
i=1, {gi}n
i=1 of Fl
q,Fm
q ,Fn
q , respectively, a 3-tensor v ∈Fl
q ⊗
Fm
q ⊗Fn
q is deﬁned as follows
v =
ℓ

i=1
m

j=1
n

k=1
v(i, j, k)ei ⊗fj ⊗gk.
Alternatively a 3-tensor, v, can be represented as a 3-way array of ﬁeld elements
v = [[v(i, j, k)]]l,m,n
i,j,k=1 ∈Fl×m×n
q
.
In the same way that matrices encode bilinear forms, 3-tensors encode trilinear
forms. More precisely, given a 3-tensor v, one can associate the 3-linear form
Lv : Fl
q × Fm
q × Fn
q →Fq deﬁned as
Lv(x1, x2, x3) =
l

i1=1
m

i2=1
n

i3=1
v(i1, i2, i3)x1
i1x2
i2x3
i3.
For the rest of this work, we restrict to the case where l = m = n. We will
also only be concerned with 3-tensors, even if not explicitly stated, since the
work from [27] gives an equivalence between isomorphism problems on 3-tensors
and higher dimensional d-tensors. This makes our study of 3-tensors an optimal
instance of these problems. Let V be the tensor space V = Fn
q ⊗Fn
q ⊗Fn
q , and
we will use the canonical basis {ei}n
i=1 on Fn
q to construct tensors.
Tensor Rank. An essential invariant of tensors that we will be considering is
their rank.
Deﬁnition 5 (Rank 1 tensor). A tensor, v ∈V, is said to have rank 1 if it
can be written as v = a ⊗b ⊗c, for a, b, c ∈Fn
q .
Deﬁnition 6 (Rank of a tensor). The rank of a tensor, v ∈V, is the minimal
r such that we can write v in the form v = r
i=1 wi, where {wi}r
i=1 ⊂V is a
set of rank 1 tensors.
Problem 1 (Computational Tensor Rank Problem). Given a tensor v ∈V, com-
pute rank(v).
It has been shown that Problem 1 is NP-hard [29,30,46].
It is shown in [30] that other tensor related problems are NP-hard. These
include the decisional and computational versions of problems investigating
eigenvalues, singular values, and spectral norms of tensors. These problems, how-
ever, are beyond the scope of this paper.

Solving the Tensor Isomorphism Problem
147
Group Action on Tensors. We can obtain further hard problems from tensors
by deﬁning a group action on them.
More concretely, the tensors are being acted on by the group G = GL(n, q)×
GL(n, q) × GL(n, q), where GL(n, q) denotes the general linear group of degree
n over Fq, in the following way:
⋆: G × V →V,

(A, B, C),

i,j,k
v(i, j, k)ei ⊗ej ⊗ek

→

i,j,k
v(i, j, k)Aei ⊗Bej ⊗Cek,
(1)
for v(i, j, k) ∈Fq.
Lemma 1. Let (A, B, C) ∈G, and v ∈V. Then rank((A, B, C)⋆v) = rank(v).
In other words, (⋆) preserves rank.
Proof. We can decompose w := (A, B, C)⋆v into a sum as shown in Eq. 1, giving
us an upper bound on its rank. Thus rank(w) ≤rank(v).
Now consider the tensor (A−1, B−1, C−1) ⋆w, which again can be writ-
ten as a sum whose index is bounded above by rank(w). This gives
us that rank((A−1, B−1, C−1) ⋆w) ≤rank(w). We notice, however, that
(A−1, B−1, C−1) ⋆w = v, thus we get that rank(v) ≤rank(w) and from before,
rank(w) ≤rank(v). Hence rank(v) = rank(w).
⊓⊔
Given this group action on tensors, we can consider two additional potentially
hard problems.
Problem 2 (Decisional Tensor Isomorphism Problem).
Given two tensors
v0, v1 ∈V, decide whether there exists (A, B, C) ∈G such that (A, B, C)⋆v0 = v1.
Problem 3 (Computational Tensor Isomorphism Problem).
Given two tensors
v0, v1 ∈V, such that (A, B, C) ⋆v0 = v1 for some (A, B, C) ∈G, compute
(A, B, C).
We can rephrase these problems in terms of orbits, from Deﬁnition 2 : Prob-
lem 2 asks to determine whether two tensors belong to the same orbit; Problem 3
asks to determine the isomorphism mapping two elements from the same orbit.
2.3
Commitment Schemes
Commitment schemes have many real-world use cases, ﬁnding applications
in multiparty computation, zero-knowledge proofs, and coin tossing [24,33,36,
40,43].
A commitment scheme is used when a sender wants to commit to some value,
m, without initially revealing it to the receiver. Instead, the sender will commit
to m by computing a commitment, c, that depends on m, and send it to the
receiver. At a later time, the sender will reveal m, and the receiver should be
able to verify that c was computed using m. The key security properties here

148
V. Gilchrist et al.
are hiding, which means c should reveal nothing about m; and binding, which
means no other value m′ ̸= m should be able to open c. We proceed to give
formal deﬁnitions for a commitment scheme and its security properties.
Deﬁnition 7 (Commitment scheme). A commitment scheme is deﬁned by
a message space, M, randomness space, R, a commitment space, C, and a tuple
of algorithms, (Setup, Commit, Verify), deﬁned in the following way:
– Setup(1λ) →pp: This PPT algorithm takes as input a security parameter λ in
unitary form and returns some public parameters pp which will be implicitly
given as inputs to the proceeding two algorithms.
– Commit(m, r) →c: This PPT algorithm takes as input a message m ∈M
and randomness r ∈R and outputs a commitment value c ∈C.
– Verify(c, (m, r)) →0/1: This is a deterministic algorithm which, given as
input c ∈C, (m, r) ∈M × R returns 1 if Commit(m, r) = c and 0 otherwise.
In the case of a bit commitment scheme, the committed messages are
restricted to two possible values, 0 or 1.
Deﬁnition 8 (Hiding Security). A commitment scheme (Setup, Commit,
Verify) is hiding if for any adversary, A, the advantage, Adv, is negligible, where
Adv is deﬁned as
Adv = | Pr[1 ←Hiding(A)] −1/2|
and the Hiding game is deﬁned in Fig. 2. In this ﬁgure, we take m0, m1, st to be
two messages and a state chosen by the adversary A for use in the game.
Hiding(A)
1: pp ←Setup(1λ)
2: m0, m1, st ←A(pp)
3: b
$
←−{0, 1}, r
$
←−R
4: c ←Commit(mb, r)
5: b′ ←A(c, st)
6: return b′ = b
HidingBit(A)
1: pp ←Setup(1λ)
2: b
$
←−{0, 1}, r
$
←−R
3: c ←Commit(b, r)
4: b′ ←A(c)
5: return b′ = b
Fig. 2. The Hiding and HidingBit game
Remark 1. Note that in the case of a bit commitment scheme, we have
M = {0, 1}, and in the Hiding game the adversary does not choose m0, m1
and does not need to provide a state st, rather the bit committed is the one
sampled by the game, i.e. one can remove Line 2 in Fig. 2 and set mb = b, as
depicted on the right-hand side of Fig. 2 by the HidingBit game.

Solving the Tensor Isomorphism Problem
149
Binding(A)
1: pp
Setup(1λ)
2: m0, m1, r0, r1
A(pp)
3: return (m0 = m1)
Commit(m0; r0) = Commit(m1; r1)
Fig. 3. The Binding game
Deﬁnition 9 (Binding Security). A commitment scheme (Setup, Commit,
Verify) is binding if for any adversary A the advantage Adv is negligible, where
Adv is deﬁned as
Adv = Pr[1 ←Binding(A)]
and the Binding game is as deﬁned in Fig. 3.
Remark 2. We can make the hiding and binding deﬁnition more precise by quan-
tifying the complexity of the adversary as well as its advantage. When A has
unbounded complexity and Adv = 0, the commitment scheme is said to be per-
fectly binding/hiding. When A has unbounded complexity and Adv = negl(λ),
it is called statistically binding/hiding. When A is PPT , and Adv = negl(λ) it
is called computationally binding/hiding.
2.4
Asiacrypt 2023’s Commitment Scheme from Tensors
While there is already literature about commitment schemes [38,42], developing
post-quantum equivalents is necessary in order to curb the risk of future quan-
tum attacks. Many post-quantum commitments exist from lattice-based assump-
tions with recent constructions such as [2,6,22], code-based assumptions [31,37],
isogeny-based assumptions [47] and transitive group actions [11,14,32]. Non-
transitive group actions, however, are less restrictive and arise naturally, mak-
ing them interesting for use in commitment schemes. In [20], at Asiacrypt 2023,
D’Alconzo, Flamini, and Gangemi describe a general bit commitment framework
from post-quantum non-transitive group actions that they call GACE (Group
Action with Canonical Element), and then give an instance using tensors in Sect.
6.2 of their work.
In particular, they take inspiration from the fact that it is widely believed
to be hard to compute the rank of a random tensor (see Sect. 2.2), and proven
NP-hard [29,30,46]. In the paper they provide a method of constructing a distin-
guished element for any rank, such that given the rank and some additional data
it is easy to verify the correctness of the original claim. Let b ∈{0, . . . n −1},
then their distinguished element is
tb :=
n−b

i=1
ei ⊗ei ⊗ei.
(2)
We will refer to the tb as unit tensors, following the terminology from [12].

150
V. Gilchrist et al.
In their commitment scheme they use tb to create either an n-rank tensor
or an (n −1)-rank tensor, thereby encoding a bit b ∈{0, 1}. They then sample
an element (A, B, C) ∈G = GL(n, q) × GL(n, q) × GL(n, q), and compute the
commitment c = (A, B, C) ⋆tb via the group action described in Eq. 1. The
sender sends the commitment c to the receiver. When the sender is ready, they
will reveal (A, B, C), b. The receiver can then easily check that c = (A, B, C)⋆tb,
and so has rank n −b.
Parameters. There are no parameters given for the commitment scheme from
[20], and it does not rely on a pure form of the tensor isomorphism problem,
so parameter choice for this scheme is not obvious. Though our attacks run in
polynomial time complexity, we would like a concrete example instance of the
commitment scheme on which to test the algorithms outlined in Sect. 3. Thus, we
will consider the parameters outlined in MEDS [15], a post-quantum signature
from matrix code equivalences, submitted to the NIST competition for post-
quantum signatures. Their proposed choices of vector dimension and ﬁeld size,
(n, q), are (14, 4093), (22, 4093), (30, 2039).
The matrix code equivalence problem is polynomially equivalent to the gen-
eral trilinear form equivalence problem and the tensor isomorphism problem as
noted in [27], meaning parameter sizes should be the same across all of these
hard problems.
2.5
The MinRank Problem
In Sect. 3 we will be exploring how low rank points can aﬀect the security of
some tensor-based hard problems. For this, we will need a way of solving a
MinRank instance. While some more straightforward approaches to MinRank,
such as [34], would suﬃce for computing low rank points, we choose to use a
more general algorithm to eliminate the chance of using diﬀerent rank tensors
as a countermeasure to our attacks later on. Here we summarize the relevant
results from [4], the current state-of-the-art for this problem. The authors of
this work revise the algebraic approach to MinRank, and thus completely avoid
the use of a Gr¨obner basis computation for some parameters, keeping all the
equations linear. When applying this approach to three NIST candidate key
exchange schemes, they were able to improve upon or match the state-of-the-art
attacks.
The MinRank problem is as follows:
Problem 4 (MinRank problem). Given an integer r
∈N, and k matrices
M1, . . . Mk ∈Fm×n
q
, determine ﬁeld elements x1, . . . xk not all zero, such that
rank

k

i=1
xiMi

≤r.
In previous works [3], the MinRank problem was solved by creating equations
using coeﬃcient variables and support variables depending on maximal minor

Solving the Tensor Isomorphism Problem
151
equations. This system of equations would then be solved using a Gr¨obner basis
algorithm. In [4], they instead deﬁne even more bilinear equations using the
coeﬃcient and support variables. So many, in fact, that they are suﬃcient for
solving the entire problem, thereby avoiding the Gr¨obner basis computation in
many cases.
The Algorithm. We are given n matrices, M1, . . . Mn, of size n × n, and a target
rank r. We want to ﬁnd {xi}n
i=1 such that M :=  xiMi has rank r. So the
entries of M are linear expressions in the variables xi. When M has rank r, we
can write it as M = SR, where columns of the n×r matrix S form a basis for the
column-space of M, and the r × n matrix R contains a basis for the row-space
of M . The entries in S and R are referred to as the support and coeﬃcient
variables, respectively. The matrix R will necessarily have full rank r. Hence, if
we add a row from M to it, all of its maximal minors will be vanishing. These
vanishing maximal minors give us algebraic equations depending on the xi and
the entries of R. We can do this for each row of M, obtaining enough equations
to linearize and solve for the xi.
2.6
Sigma Protocols
We give below an informal deﬁnition of a sigma protocol that will be of use in
Sect. 4.2.
Deﬁnition 10 (Sigma protocol). A sigma protocol Σ for a relation R is a
protocol between a prover P and a veriﬁer V . It has input (x, w) ∈R where x,
the statement, is a common input and w, the witness, is private to P, and it
must satisfy the following:
– Σ is a three-move protocol, where P sends the ﬁrst message a, V replies with
some string e, P send a ﬁnal message z upon which V wither accepts or
rejects.
– It is complete i.e. if P, V follow the protocol on input (x, w) with (x, w) ∈R
then V always accepts.
– Special soundness: there exists a polynomially bounded algorithm E called
extractor such that for any x, if (x, a, e, z) and (x, a, e′, z) are two accept-
ing views for V such that e ̸= e′ then E(x, a, e, z, e′, z′) yields w such that
R(x, w).
– Special honest-veriﬁer zero-knowledge : there exists a polynomially bounded
algorithm Sim called simulator such that for any x ∈L and e, the transcript
(a, e, z) of the interaction P
x
←→V conditioned to e has the same distribution
as Sim(x, e).
A sigma-protocol can be turned into a non-interactive zero-knowledge proof
using the Fiat-Shamir transform [23].

152
V. Gilchrist et al.
3
Solving Tensor Isomorphism Problems in tb orbits
In this section we focus on attacking the commitment scheme from [20], which
uses special cases of tensor hard problems. We begin in Sect. 3.1 by establishing
some background on the rank of points in tensors. This will help us in Sect. 3.2,
where we focus on attacking a variant of the Decisional Tensor Isomorphism
Problem (DTI, see Problem 2) present in their commitment scheme, and provide
a polynomial time attack on it. We then describe some elements of the stabilizer
group of the family of tensors {tb : b ∈Zn} in Sect. 3.3. Lastly, in Sects. 3.4 and
3.5, we use these ﬁndings to attack their variant of the Computational Tensor
Isomorphism Problem (CTI, see Problem 3).
All the algorithms and experiments described in the proceeding sections were
coded in Magma, and can be found at
https://github.com/vgilchri/tensor-group-action .
3.1
Computing the Rank of Points
In the case of tensors, we can ﬁrst choose to view a 3-tensor, g ∈V, as a list
of n matrices G1, . . . Gn ∈Fn×n
q
. Given u, v, w ∈Fn
q , we represent u ⊗v ⊗w
as [G1, ..., Gn] where Gi = ui · (v · wT ). Note, there are two additional ways to
do this, which essentially changes along which axis you are “slicing”. While the
choice of this axis is not important, choosing one and staying consistent is. We
highlight our chosen representation in the following example.
Example 1. Suppose we are working over F3
5. We would like to compute the
tensor u ⊗v ⊗w, where u = [4, 1, 2], v = [3, 0, 1], w = [2, 4, 0].
We proceed by ﬁrst expanding the matrix v · wT :
v · wT =
⎡
⎣
1 2 0
0 0 0
2 4 0
⎤
⎦.
Now we multiply this matrix by each entry of u, storing them in a list as we go
and we obtain the following:
⎡
⎣
4 3 0
0 0 0
3 1 0
⎤
⎦,
⎡
⎣
1 2 0
0 0 0
2 4 0
⎤
⎦,
⎡
⎣
2 4 0
0 0 0
4 3 0
⎤
⎦.
Using this representation of tensors, we can deﬁne the rank of a point in a
tensor.
Deﬁnition 11 (Rank of a point). Let g ∈V be a tensor, written in the form
g = [G1, . . . Gn]. Then the rank of a point u := [u1, . . . un] ∈Fn
q in g is exactly
the matrix rank of u1G1 + . . . unGn.
Lemma 2. The set of rank 0 points of a tensor, v ∈V, is a vector space.

Solving the Tensor Isomorphism Problem
153
Proof. Associativity, commutativity, and distributivity are all inherited from Fn
q .
The zero-vector in Fn
q is trivially a rank 0 point in any tensor, and so serves as
the additive identity element for the vector space. Furthermore, we have closure
under additive inverses and scalar multiplication since multiplication by a non-
zero scalar does not aﬀect the rank of a matrix. Lastly, given two rank 0 points
u and w, we get that u + w is a rank 0 point, since the sum of rank 0 matrices
will have rank 0 as well.
⊓⊔
Computing the rank of points in a tensor will be useful to us later on. In the
rest of this paper, when talking about the rank of points, we will consider points
up to scalar multiplication, unless stated otherwise.
Lemma 3. Let v ∈V be a tensor. Denote Lk(v) := {u ∈Fn
q : rankv(u) = k}
to be the set of rank k points in v. Now let (A, B, C) ∈G be an isomorphism,
and w = (A, B, C) ⋆v. Then |Lk(v)| = |Lk(w)|.
In particular, we get a bijection that sends u ∈Lk(v) to uA−1 ∈Lk(w).
Proof. We observe that, given a tensor v, the action of B and C does not aﬀect
the rank of a point, meaning that a point u of rank r in v will also be of rank
r for (I, B, I) ⋆v, and (I, I, C) ⋆v. This follows straightforwardly from the fact
that given v = [T1, ..., Tn], we can write the action of (I, B, I) as (I, B, I) ⋆v =
[BT1, ..., BTn] and that of (I, C, I) as (I, I, C) ⋆v = [T1CT , ..., TnCT ] with T
denoting the transpose.
We observe that only the action of A has some inﬂuence on the rank of points,
and A sends a rank r point u in v to the rank r point u′ = uA−1 in (A, I, I) ⋆v,
where ⋆is as deﬁned in Eq. 3.3.
Combining these results, we obtain a one-to-one correspondence between the
rank r points in v, and the rank r points in w = (A, B, C) ⋆v, with an explicit
mapping, which proves the statement.
⊓⊔
When considering tensors, Lemma 3 tells us that the number of points of ﬁxed
rank in a tensor is preserved via the group action (⋆) from Eq. 3.3. Computing a
group action in this case amounts to transforming the bases of Fn
q being used to
compute the tensor, to new bases, via linear transformations (recall we require
three bases of Fn
q ). Hence, the overall structure or rank of the tensor does not
change.
Rank 0 points in tensors, when considering a tensor as a list of matri-
ces, means that there exists some linear dependency between these matrices.
Transforming the bases of Fn
q preserves this dependency, regardless of the exact
changes of bases being used. Solving for these points can be done with Gaussian
elimination, as we will see in Sect. 3.2. Solving for higher rank points will amount
to a MinRank problem, described in Sect. 2.5.
3.2
Hiding Attack
We now describe an attack that breaks the hiding property of the commitment
scheme described in [20]. That is, given a committed value c = Commit(b, r) for

154
V. Gilchrist et al.
a given bit b, we recover b by solving a system of linear equations, therefore
disproving the security claims made in [20].
Let us recall the problem we are attacking:
Problem 5. Given c = (A, B, C)⋆tb with tb = n−b
i=1 ei⊗ei⊗ei, b ∈{0, . . . n−1},
(A, B, C) ∈G sampled randomly, and ⋆is as deﬁned in Eq. 3.3, recover b.
Note, this problem is slightly more general than the commitment scheme
from [20], since we are considering any b ∈{0, 1, . . . n −1}. From Problem 5,
we see that c is precisely the tensor tb with an isomorphism acting on it, as
described in Lemma 3.
Lemma 4. Let tb = n−b
i=1 ei ⊗ei ⊗ei, then the vector space of rank 0 points
has dimension b.
Proof. Lemma 2 immediately tells us that the set of rank 0 points is a vector
space. It remains to prove the dimension.
Let us write tb as an n list of n × n matrices, which we denote T 1
b , . . . T n
b .
These matrices can be described in the following way :
(T k
b )ij =

1 if i = j = k and k ≤n −b
0 otherwise
We know that the rank of a point u ∈Fn
q of tb is the rank of the matrix
Ub = u1T 1
b + .. + unT n
b .
Using the above deﬁnition of the T i
b, i = 1, .., n we observe that Ub will be a
diagonal matrix with entries
(Ub)ii =

ui, for i = 1, ..., n −b
0 otherwise
.
Suppose u ̸= 0 ∈Fn
q , then Ub will consist of a diagonal matrix of dimension
(n−b)×(n−b) with the remaining b rows/columns being completely zeros. This
upper bounds the rank to be at most n −b. For example, U0 will have rank at
least 1 when u is non-zero, and therefore no non-trivial rank 0 points and thus
the subspace has dimension 0. Similarly U1 will have one zero column so rank
at most n −1 and will always have a rank 0 point (up to scalar multiplication),
in the form u1 = ... = un−1 = 0 and un any non-zero element of Fq.
More generally, for tb where b > 0, letting ei denote the canonical basis
element of Fn
q , we can deﬁne the basis B generating the vector space of rank 0
points in tb as
B := {en, . . . en−b+1}.
⊓⊔
We focus for a moment on the case b ∈{0, 1}. Using Lemma 4, we have that
t1 has exactly one rank 0 point, and that t0 has no rank 0 points. Combining
this with Lemma 3 shows that we can use the existence of a rank 0 point as a

Solving the Tensor Isomorphism Problem
155
distinguisher on c (as deﬁned in Problem 5). We can ﬁnd the rank 0 points of c
by solving the system of n2 linear equations
α1G1 + ... + αnGn = 0,
(3)
for αi ∈Fq, i = 1, ..., n. If such a solution exists, then b = 1, else b = 0. For the
more general case of b ∈{0, 1, . . . n−1}, the dimension of the solution space will
be exactly b.
While more complex algorithms could be used to solve this system, Gaussian
elimination is suﬃcient for our purposes. The challenge here is selecting a set of
n linearly independent equations from the n2 possible choices. In the worst case
this gives an upper bound on the number of operations of O(n4). This proves
Theorem 1.
Theorem 1. There exists an algorithm that solves Problem 5 using O(n4)
operations.
For all parameters highlighted in Sect. 2.4 the attack runs in under a second
on a laptop. While running these experiments we found that sampling the ﬁrst
n equations was suﬃcient for correctly solving the system. While we would not
expect this to be true for a random set of n2 equations, this could be due to
the structure of the tensor which is not random. So heuristically, we expect a
complexity of O(n3). Note that Theorem 1 always returns a correct answer to
Problem 5.
To this end, we give a second probabilistic algorithm that also requires O(n3)
operations but uses a slightly diﬀerent approach to random sampling.
Theorem 2. There exists a probabilistic algorithm that solves Problem 5 using
O(n3) operations.
Proof. Recall from Problem 5, given c = (A, B, C) ⋆tb, we would like to recover b.
We begin by restricting to the case b ∈{0, 1}. Consider a random point
u ∈Fn
q . Then u has rank n in t0 and rank n −1 in t1 with very high probability.
Namely u will have rank n in t0 with probability (q −1)n/qn since there can be
no zeros in this point. Similarly, in t1, one of the entries can be free but the rest
must be non-zero, so we get probability (q −1)n−1/qn−1. By Lemma 3, these
probabilities will translate to c. Thus, it suﬃces to compute the rank of u in
the commitment, c, to recover b with overwhelming probability, for large q. This
approach generalizes to b ∈{0, 1, . . . n −1}, in the obvious way.
This algorithm consists of computing a random linear combination of n
square matrices, and computing the sum’s rank over the ﬁnite ﬁeld Fq. Using
Gaussian elimination, we can do this in O(n3) complexity.
⊓⊔
Remark 3. This attack method works because of how structured tb is. For a
random tensor we do not expect to have any rank 0 point (this will be shown in
Lemma 12). For this reason, our distinguishing attack is not expected to have
any impact on the general case of Problem 2 (the Decisional Tensor Isomorphism
Problem), which asks an attacker to determine whether two given tensors are

156
V. Gilchrist et al.
isomorphic. For the same reason, we also do not claim any improvement on
Problem 3 (the Computational Tensor Isomorphism Problem). To date, both of
these problems are believed to be cryptographically hard in the general setting,
and we will use them in Sect. 4 to build a new commitment scheme from random
tensors.
3.3
Stabilizer Subgroup of tb
We now investigate some elements belonging to the stabilizer group of tensors,
and construct the entire stabilizer group of t0. These ﬁndings will be of use to
us in an attack in later sections.
Stabilizers for All Tensors. Recall, we deﬁne v ∈V as
v :=
n

i,j,k=1
v(i, j, k)ei ⊗ej ⊗ek,
and we are considering isomorphisms (A, B, C) ∈G that act on v via the group
action, (⋆), deﬁned as
(A, B, C) ⋆

i,j,k
v(i, j, k)ei ⊗ej ⊗ek =

i,j,k
v(i, j, k)Aei ⊗Bej ⊗Cek.
Lemma 5. Let λa, λb, λc ∈Fq be such that λaλbλc = 1. Then for all v ∈V, we
have that (λaIn, λbIn, λcIn) ⋆v = v.
The proof of this lemma can be done straightforwardly using the deﬁnition
of the group action from Eq. 3.3. We reserve the details for Appendix A.
Stabilizer Subgroup of tb. Now we focus our attention to tb, which can be written
as
tb :=
n−b

i=1
ei ⊗ei ⊗ei.
In the following two lemmas we formalize how diagonal matrices and per-
mutation matrices can be used to create stabilizing elements for tb, and more
speciﬁcally, for t0.
Lemma 6. Suppose ΛA, ΛB, ΛC are three diagonal n × n matrices over Fq such
that ΛAΛBΛC = In. Then (ΛA, ΛB, ΛC) ⋆tb = tb, i.e. (ΛA, ΛB, ΛC) is in the
stabilizer subgroup of tb.

Solving the Tensor Isomorphism Problem
157
Proof. We claim that (ΛA, ΛB, ΛC) is an element of the stabilizing group of tb.
We can see this explicitly as
(ΛA, ΛB, ΛC) ⋆tb =
n−b

i,j,k=1
n−b

s=1
ΛA
isΛB
jsΛC
ksei ⊗ej ⊗ek (the matrices are diagonal)
=
n−b

i=1
ΛA
iiΛB
iiΛC
iiei ⊗ei ⊗ei
=
n−b

i=1
ei ⊗ei ⊗ei = tb.
⊓⊔
Additional Stabilizer Elements for t0. To explore how permutation matrices can
be used to build stabilizing elements, we ﬁrst focus on the case of b = 0. In what
follows, we use Sn to denote the symmetric group of integers {1, . . . n}.
Lemma 7. Let σ ∈Sn, and let Pσ be the associated permutation matrix given
by Pσ = (pij)n
i,j=1 and pij = 1i=σ(j). Then (Pσ, Pσ, Pσ)⋆t0 = t0, i.e. (Pσ, Pσ, Pσ)
is in the stabilizer subgroup of t0.
Proof. Consider any permutation matrix Pσ. When applied consistently to the
bases being used to construct t0 = n
s=1 es ⊗es ⊗es, it simply permutes the
order in which the summation is performed, resulting in the same tensor t0. We
reserve the explicit calculations showing this equality for Appendix A.
⊓⊔
In [12, Proposition 4.1], they state that the entire stabilizer group of t0,
deﬁned over the complex numbers, is exactly the semi-direct product of the
diagonal matrices from Lemma 6 and the set of permutation matrices Pσ for
σ ∈Sn. This is consistent with our ﬁndings over ﬁnite ﬁelds, and was further
corroborated via our experiments.
Additional Stabilizer Elements for t1. We now turn to the study of the stabilizer
elements speciﬁc to t1.
Lemma 8. Let σ ∈Sn−1, and let Pσ be the associated permutation matrix given
by Pσ = (pij)n−1
i,j=1, pij = 1i=σ(j) and Mσ be the n × n matrix obtained by adding
an additional zero row and zero column to Pσ, in the following way :
Mσ :=
Pσ 0v
0h 0

where 0v and 0h are zero column and zero row vectors respectively.
Then (Mσ, Mσ, Mσ) ⋆t1 = t1, i.e. (Mσ, Mσ, Mσ) is in the stabilizer subgroup of t1.
Proof. As in Lemma 7, the action of the permutation matrices is permuting the
order of the bases being used to construct t1 = n−1
i=1 ei ⊗ei ⊗ei. In this case,
however, we risk mapping one of the basis vectors {e1, . . . en−1} to en, which
should not be included in our summation. Hence it is crucial to exclude the
permutations that do so by forcing the ﬁnal row/column to be zeros. This leaves
us with the permutations from Sn−1.
⊓⊔

158
V. Gilchrist et al.
Lemma 9. Let I be the (n −1) × (n −1) identity matrix, v = (v1, ..., vn−1) ∈
Fn−1
q
, vn ∈Fq and let M be a matrix of the following form:
M :=

I
v
0h vn

where 0h is a zero row vector. Then (M, I, I) ⋆t1 = t1, (I, M, I) ⋆t1 = t1, and
(I, I, M) ⋆t1 = t1. i.e. these three families of isomorphisms are in the stabilizer
subgroup of t1.
Proof. Recall, applying an isomorphism (A, B, C) to t1 means
(A, B, C) ⋆t1 =
n−1

i=1
Aei ⊗Bei ⊗Cei.
Since we are restricted to i < n, every vector contains a zero in the nth com-
ponent. Thus the nth columns of A, B, C will always be multiplied by zeros.
Therefore the families of isomorphisms {(M, I, I), (I, M, I), (I, I, M)} are con-
tained in the stabilizer subgroup of t1.
⊓⊔
Equivalence Classes on G. The study of stabilizer groups leads us to the deﬁ-
nition of an equivalence relation on G = GL(n, q) × GL(n, q) × GL(n, q). This
observation will allow us to add more constraints to the solutions we are looking
for in CTI (Computational Tensor Isomorphism Problem), and thus accelerate
our attack in the proceeding section.
Deﬁnition 12. Let (A1, B1, C1), (A2, B2, C2) be two elements from G, and
t ∈V a tensor. We say that (A1, B1, C1) and (A2, B2, C2) belong to the same
equivalence class via t, denoted (A1, B1, C1) ≡t (A2, B2, C2), if and only if they
are equal up to right-multiplication by an element in the stabilizer subgroup of t.
3.4
Solving CTI in Orbits of t0
In this section we focus on the b = 0 case from the commitment scheme, and
outline an approach to recovering an element from the isomorphism class via
t0 of the secret (A, B, C). Recall our problem is as follows:
Problem 6. Let t0, g ∈V be two 3-tensors such that
t0 :=
n

i=1
ei ⊗ei ⊗ei, and g :=
n

i,j,k=1
gi,j,kei ⊗ej ⊗ek
for {gi,j,k} ⊂Fq. Assuming it exists, ﬁnd an isomorphism (A, B, C) ∈G such
that
(A, B, C) ⋆t0 = g,
(4)
where ⋆is as deﬁned in Eq. 3.3.

Solving the Tensor Isomorphism Problem
159
We begin by noticing that the tensor t0 has exactly n rank 1 points (up to
scalars), which we will prove in Lemma 10. Then from Lemma 3 this tells us
that g will also have n rank 1 points. Denote a set of rank 1 points of t0 as
{e1, . . . en}. Suppose we could ﬁnd the rank 1 points in g, denoted {a1, . . . an}.
Then, we can try to match the ei to the ai to recover part of the isomorphism,
namely A−1. We formalize this idea in Lemma 11.
Lemma 10. Let t0 = n
i=1 ei ⊗ei ⊗ei then t0 has exactly n rank 1 points (up
to scalars).
Proof. Let u := [u1, . . . un] be a rank 1 point in t0, deﬁne matrices T 1
0 , . . . T n
0 as
(T k
b )ij =

1 if i = j = k and k ≤n −b
0 otherwise
.
Since u has rank 1 in t0, we expect the following diagonal matrix to have rank
1 (by deﬁnition of rank of a point, see Deﬁnition 11).
U0 :=
⎛
⎜
⎝
u1
0
...
0
un
⎞
⎟
⎠
Thus, for U0 to have rank 1, we see that u can have only one non-zero entry.
This gives n distinct points up to scalars.
⊓⊔
Lemma 11. Consider Problem 6. Let {a1, . . . , an} be the set of rank 1 points of
g, and {e1, . . . , en} be the set of rank 1 points in t0 (up to scalar multiplication).
Then there exists an ordering, σ, of {a1, ..., an} and a matrix A such that for
each i ∈[1, . . . n], aσ(i) = eiA−1.
Proof. As a consequence of Lemma 3, we see that a rank one point in t0 is sent
to a rank one point in g through A−1. This will ﬁx the ordering σ.
⊓⊔
Finding the rank 1 points {a1, . . . an} is an instance of MinRank, so we can
use the algorithm given in [4] that is summarized in Sect. 2.5. In this particular
context, we want to ﬁnd n matrices with target rank 1. This means that our
coeﬃcient variable matrix, R, is simply a row matrix. Denote the entries in R as
r1, . . . rn. This leaves us with a bilinear system in the target variables, {xi}n
i=1,
and the coeﬃcient variables, {ri}n
i=1, where we will have n2(n −1)/2 equations
and n(n−1) monomials. If the equations are not related by linear dependencies,
we can solve the system by direct linearization. In our experiments, this was
indeed the case.
Going forward, Lemma 11 shows that we can recover some matrix A−1
0
whose
rows are given by {ai}n
i=1. Our ﬁndings from Sect. 3.3 tell us that neither the
permutation of these rows, nor the scalar multiples of them, will aﬀect our search
for a suitable isomorphism satisfying Eq. 4. In fact, ﬁxing these rows and scalar

160
V. Gilchrist et al.
multiples is a good idea as it reduces the number of solutions and variables in
our search.
Once we have recovered some A−1
0 , we can then solve for B0 and C0 to
complete the isomorphism by considering the system of n3 linear equations in
2n2 variables given by (I, B0, I)⋆t0 = (A−1
0 , I, C−1
0 )⋆g. The system, as is, is very
under-determined because of the size of the equivalence class of (A, B, C) via t0.
To slim down the solution space, thanks to Lemma 6, we can similarly normalize
the ﬁrst row of B0, by setting the entries of this row to arbitrary values of F∗
q.
There is a chance that this will not give a solution, in case one or more of
the entries in the ﬁrst row of B were 0. We argue in the proof of Theorem 3 that
when q is large enough compared to n, the probability of this failure is very low.
In the small chance of failure, however, we can apply a new known isomorphism,
(I, B1, I) ∈G, and now consider (I, B1, I)⋆((A, B, C)⋆t0) = (I, B1, I)⋆g instead.
This essentially “rerandomizes” our instance, in the hopes that the solution space
for B1 · B will contain an entry whose ﬁrst row has no zeros. Alternatively, we
can also normalize a randomly chosen element in each column of B.
These steps are summarized in Fig. 4.
1: Given: g
V, isomorphic to t0.
2: a1, . . . an
MinRank(g, target rank = 1)
3: A−1
0
Matrix(a1, . . . an)
4: B0, C0
Solutions((I, B0, I) t 0 = (A−1
0 , I, C−1
0 ) g)
Solutions((B0)1,i = 1, i =
1, . . . n)
5: return (A0, B0, C0)
Fig. 4. Solving Problem 6.
Theorem 3. There exists a probabilistic algorithm that solves Problem 6 using
O(n6) operations.
Proof. We ﬁrst show that the probability of failure of Algorithm 4 is negligible for
large q. When q is small, in case of failure one can just apply a new isomorphism
(I, B1, I) ∈G to g, and repeat the algorithm with this new instance as described
above.
We have a chance of failure when we normalize the ﬁrst row of B0. Since
we have already ﬁxed A0, this ﬁxes the permutation of columns of B0 as well
(see Lemma 7). Hence, we risk failure when one of these normalized columns
necessarily has a leading zero. The chance of this happening is the complement
probability to the columns having no leading zero. This gives us a total proba-
bility of failure of
P(Alg 4 fails) = 1 −(q −1)n
qn
,
which is negligible for large q.

Solving the Tensor Isomorphism Problem
161
We now prove the complexity of this algorithm. The dominating subrou-
tines in Algorithm 4 include the MinRank computation, the tensor group action
arithmetic, and solving the ﬁnal system of equations (which can be done using
Gaussian elimination). While the tensor arithmetic could be done in time O(n4),
as noted in Sect. 6.2 of [48], the other two subroutines require O(n6) operations.
⊓⊔
Remark 4. An alternate approach to proving Theorem 3 could be to apply
Lemma 11 over all three axis, allowing us to recover some A, B, C, each up
to some stabilizer elements. The issue with this approach, however, is that those
stabilizer elements will a priori not be the same for all three matrices, so at this
point we can write a system of equations to recover these stabilizer elements
and ﬁnish the attack. This approach, while correct, adds an extra step, making
it neither conceptually simpler nor more eﬃcient than what is outlined above.
Additionally, the above approach has the advantage of directly using the partial
knowledge we have about A when recovering B and C.
We test the attack from Theorem 3 on the parameters from Sect. 2.4 and
give the results in seconds in Table 1. We consider some additional parameters
in Fig. 5 to further support our complexity claims.
Table 1. Timings in seconds for solving the CTI variant from Problem 6
n
q
time (s)
14 4093 9.3
22 4093 141.6
30 2039 858.9
3.5
Solving CTI in Orbits of t1
The approach of computing the set of rank 1 points via the MinRank algorithm
from [4] will only work in the case the tensor has rank n (i.e. b = 0 in the
commitment scheme). Any smaller rank would result in too many rank 1 points
to compute. In the b = 1 case, however, we will see that we can edit MinRank to
further ﬁlter distinct rank 1 points using our knowledge of the stabilizer group
of t1.
We begin by computing the one rank 0 point in g (which is unique up to
scalars). This point is easy to compute, as seen in Sect. 3.2. Denote it P0. Now, we
know that any rank 1 point could have a rank 0 point added to it, and still remain
a rank 1 point. In other words, we get an equivalence class on the set of rank 1
points where we say two rank 1 points, Ri, Rj, are equivalent if Ri −Rj = λP0
for some scalar λ. This means, for each i ∈[1, . . . n −1], the equivalence class
can be written as the subspace ⟨Pi, P0⟩, for some rank 1 point Pi, and the

162
V. Gilchrist et al.
6
10
14
18
22
101
102
dimension, n
time in seconds
Timings for Algorithm 4
Fig. 5. We show some timings of Algorithm 4 for q = 4093 and varying values of n on
a log-log scale. This corroborates our claim that Algorithm 4 has complexity O(n6),
since the curve follows very closely to a line of slope 6.
rank 0 point P0. Hence, we can obtain a representative from each equivalence
class, Pi, by appropriately ﬁltering the results returned from MinRank. More
precisely, we normalize a component of the rank 1 points, thus ﬁltering much of
the equivalence class. The index of the component to be normalized corresponds
to the index of the ﬁrst non-zero entry of P0.
After these computations, we will be left with one rank 0 point and n−1 dis-
tinct rank 1 points. We are assured to get exactly n−1 linearly independent rank
1 points since each equivalence class, ⟨Pi, P0⟩, is the image under an isomorphism
of the subspace ⟨ei, en⟩. We can then follow a similar attack as that described
in Sect. 3.4, Fig. 4, to reconstruct an isomorphism (A0, B0, C0) ≡t1 (A, B, C).
First we need to be careful to place the rank 0 point in the ﬁnal row of
A−1
0
due to the restriction on permutation matrices in the stabilizer group of t1,
as shown in Lemma 8. We can also use Lemma 9 to further ﬁlter out options
by ﬁxing the ﬁnal columns of B0, C0 to random elements. To do so we slightly
modify the equations we are solving to avoid high degree equations involving
the inverse of C0. We consider the new equation (I, B0, C0)⋆t1 = (A−1
0 , I, I)⋆g.
This new equation is no longer linear since the left hand side will have quadratic
terms in the variables of B0 and C0. This means we cannot solve the system of
equations linearly, but instead will require a Gr¨obner basis. Experiments show
the run times of this attack to be very close to those of the computational attack
on t0, which we give in Table 2. Thus, we also estimate the complexity of the
overall attack to be polynomial.

Solving the Tensor Isomorphism Problem
163
Table 2. Timings in seconds for solving CTI for t1.
n
q
time (s)
14 4093 8.7
22 4093 158.1
30 2039 1235.9
4
Repairing the Asiacrypt 2023 Scheme
In this section, we propose a new construction of a commitment scheme and
include proofs of its security. This commitment is the ﬁrst non-interactive com-
mitment scheme from non-transitive group actions proposed; such group actions
are less restrictive, and arise naturally. In particular, tensor-based group actions
are such an example. At the moment isogenies have been among the only group
actions receiving attention. By studying tensors in this application, and showing
how they can be used in protocols, our hope is to contribute to the assumption
diversiﬁcation of the ﬁeld.
The key components that we aim to preserve from [20] are the following:
a commitment scheme based on a non-transitive group action for which the
group action should be uncertiﬁed1, and the commitment scheme should be
non-interactive.
We therefore propose a non-interactive bit commitment scheme from non-
transitive uncertiﬁed group actions, described in Fig. 6. It is statistically binding
(Theorem 4) and computationally hiding (Theorem 5). We improve on [32]’s
construction, which is also statistically binding and computationally hiding but
requires interaction. We lose the perfect binding property of [20], however, this
allows us to have a concrete instantiation that relies on standard problems. In
practice, replacing perfect binding by statistical binding does not aﬀect the secu-
rity of more advanced constructions that could be built from bit commitments.
Note that we do not keep the framework of Problem 5, but rather introduce a
slightly diﬀerent and simpler one, which still does not introduce any new assump-
tions.
Deﬁnition 13 (Decisional group action framework). Consider a group
action ⋆: G × V →V that has the following properties:
1. It is an Eﬀective Group Action.
2. Given two elements v0, v1 such that v1 = g ⋆v0 for some g ∈G, computing g
is hard.
3. The probability, p, that two random elements are in diﬀerent orbits is
p = 1 −negl(λ).
1 An uncertiﬁed group action is a group action for which checking that two elements
are in the same orbit is hard.

164
V. Gilchrist et al.
4. The Decisional Group Action Inversion Problem for ⋆is hard (recall
Deﬁnition 4).
Note that the ﬁrst three properties are described in [32].
Setup(1λ)
1: v0, v1
$ V
2: return v0, v1
Commit(b)
1: g
$ G
2: c
g
vb
3: return c
Verify(c, (b, g))
1: return (c = g
vb)
Fig. 6. Commitment scheme
We can instantiate this framework using tensors through the group action
described in Eq. 3.3. The crucial diﬀerence with the construction of [20] is that
v0, v1 are now two randomly generated tensors and they do not possess any
special structure. In particular, a random tensor will only have low rank points
with negligible probability, as shown in the Lemma 12.
Remark 5. One can extend the commitment scheme to accommodate a poly-
nomial number of messages say 0, . . . N by slightly modifying the Setup and
Commit algorithms of Fig. 6. Indeed, during Setup one can instead randomly
sample N elements v0, . . . vN and output these. Then during Commit, to commit
to a message k ∈{0, . . . N}, one samples g ∈G and computes g ⋆vk.
Remark 6. Note that v0, v1 must be sampled randomly, in practice this can
be done by sampling them as the output of a pseudo-random generator or a
cryptographic hash function. What matters for our proofs is that they are indeed
indistinguishable from elements sampled from a uniformly random distribution.
Lemma 12. Given a random tensor t ∈V, the average number of rank n −d
points (up to scalar multiplication) is q−d2+n−1 as q goes to inﬁnity.
Proof. Consider our tensor t as a list of n random n × n matrices, over Fq, say
M1, . . . Mn. A rank r point in t is λ = (λ1, . . . , λn) ∈Fn
q , λ ̸= 0, such that
rank(λ1M1 + . . . + λnMn) = r.
First, we have that the probability that a random matrix M has rank n −d
for some integer d goes to q−d2 as q goes to inﬁnity. This result is a direct
observation from [25]. Then we observe that there are about qn−1 possibilities
projectively for λ, hence we get that the average number of rank n −d points is
q−d2+n−1.
⊓⊔
This means that our distinguishing attack from Sect. 3.2 is not applicable
on a randomly generated instance. Indeed, this lemma shows that it is unlikely
for a random tensor to have points of small rank. For points of larger rank, the
MinRank attack described in Sect. 2.5 becomes impractical.

Solving the Tensor Isomorphism Problem
165
Let us now check that all the desired properties from Deﬁnition 13 are sat-
isﬁed: Property 1 has been studied in [32] and Property 2 corresponds to the
Computational Tensor Isomorphism Problem (Problem 3). Property 4 is intro-
duced in [20] and they discuss its applicability to tensors. While we show it is
broken for their instantiation using unit tensors, tb, it is still believed to be hard
in the case of random tensors, which is precisely our case. Regarding Property
3, we must compute the probability, p, of two random tensors being in diﬀerent
orbits under ⋆. Note that [32] assumes that this probability is high but they do
not give any estimates.
Lemma 13. The probability, p, of two random tensors being in distinct orbits
under ⋆is p ≥1 −
1
qn3−3n2 .
Proof. Let t ∈V be any tensor, then trivially
#Orb(t) ≤#G = (#GLn(q))3 = O(q3n2).
Furthermore, we have #V = qn3. So the total number of orbits is at least
#V/(#GLn(q))3 = O(qn3−3n2). The probability of two tensors being in the
same orbit is therefore bounded by
1
qn3−3n2 , hence p ≥1 −
1
qn3−3n2 .
⊓⊔
We have shown that all the properties from Deﬁnition 13 are satisﬁed. Now
it remains to show that our proposed commitment scheme from Fig. 6 is both
hiding and binding.
Theorem 4 (Binding). The commitment scheme described in Fig. 6 is statis-
tically binding.
Proof. Consider G to be the binding security game from Sect. 2.3 applied to our
scheme. Taking the following probabilities over the randomness of the game we
have:
Pr[G(A) →1] = Pr[G(A) →1 ∧v0, v1 are in the same orbit]
+ Pr[G(A) →1 ∧v0, v1 are in diﬀerent orbits]
≤Pr[v0, v1 are in the same orbit]
+ Pr[G(A) →1|v0, v1 are in diﬀerent orbits] · p,
where p is the probability deﬁned by Property 3, and computed in Lemma 13.
We have Pr[v0, v1 are in the same orbit] = 1−p by deﬁnition of p. Furthermore,
Pr[G(A) →1|v0, v1 are in diﬀerent orbits] = 0 since otherwise if A wins G in
that case, this means they return (A0, B0, C0) and (A1, B1, C1) such that
(A0, B0, C0) ⋆v0 = (A1, B1, C1) ⋆v1.
In particular this would mean that (A−1
1 A0, B−1
1 B0, C−1
1 C0) ⋆v0 = v1 which
is impossible since v0, v1 are in diﬀerent orbits and thus no such isomorphism
exists.
Overall we get
Pr[G(A) →1] ≤(1 −p) + 0 · p = (1 −p) = negl(λ).
⊓⊔

166
V. Gilchrist et al.
Remark 7. Notice that in the case where v0, v1 are indeed in the same orbit
(which happens only with negligible probability), breaking the Binding problem
amounts to solving the Computational Tensor Isomorphism problem (Problem 3)
in a random orbit, hence remains plausibly hard.
Theorem 5 (Hiding). Assuming the hardness of the dGA-IP problem (Deﬁ-
nition 4), our commitment scheme is hiding.
Proof. Consider G to be the hiding game from Sect. 2.3. Taking the following
probabilities over the randomness of the game, we have:
Pr[G(A) →1] = Pr[G(A) →1 ∧v0, v1 are in the same orbit]
+ Pr[G(A) →1 ∧v0, v1 are in diﬀerent orbits]
≤Pr[v0, v1 are in the same orbit]
+ Pr[G(A) →1|v0, v1 are in diﬀerent orbits] · p,
where p is the probability deﬁned by Property 3. We have Pr[v0, v1 are in the
same orbit] = 1 −p = negl(λ).
In the case where v0, v1 are in diﬀerent orbits, one can refer to [20], Theorem 2.
Roughly, given an adversary B against dGA-IP, that receives as input s, t, they
instantiate two Hiding games with adversaries A1, A2 to which they respectively
give s or t as input, and B returns 1 if the outputs of A1 and A2 are equal and
0 otherwise. They get that
Pr[G(A) →1|v0, v1 are in diﬀerent orbits] ≤1
2 + 2ϵ(λ)2
where ϵ(λ) is the advantage in the dGA-IP game.
So overall we have
Pr[G(A) →1] ≤(1 −p) + p · (1
2 + 2ϵ(λ)2)
= 1
2p + (1 −p) + 2pϵ(λ)2
and by assumption both ϵ(λ) and 1 −p are negligible.
⊓⊔
Remark 8. Consider the extension of our commitment scheme to a message space
of {0, . . . N} as described in Remark 5. Then the hiding and binding properties
are derived in a straightforward way since v0, . . . vN are in diﬀerent orbits with
probability at least 1 −
N
qn3−3n2 .
4.1
Cost Comparison
The cost of generating the commitment in [20] is O(n3) multiplications and addi-
tions over Fq (the cost of matrix multiplication, ignoring asymptotic improve-
ments). Due to our use of generic tensors, we have to perform 3n matrix mul-
tiplications to compute our commitment, bringing the cost to O(n4). The cost

Solving the Tensor Isomorphism Problem
167
of multiplications over Fq is O(log q log log q). While this provides a slowdown
compared to [20], it is still reasonable when compared to other cryptographic
operations. In particular, we beneﬁt from the fact that matrix multiplication
already has existing low-level code and algorithms, including parallel algorithms.
It is also worth noting that our loss in eﬃciency only occurs during the actual
computation of the commitment. For any operation on the commitment itself or
involving it (e.g. zero-knowledge proofs) the cost of manipulating it would be the
same for both our construction and that of [20] since they are both comprised
of matrix multiplication on a (seemingly) random tensor.
MEDS [16], a NIST signature candidate, only uses two matrices A, B, but
introduces systematic form computation to recover a third matrix, C. This allows
a trade-oﬀbetween computation time and size. Therefore, the cost of a single
group action on a matrix code is the cost of matrix multiplication plus the sys-
tematic form computation. This trade-oﬀcould also be applied to the case of our
commitment scheme, along with their other (future) group action optimizations.
4.2
On Proofs of Knowledge
To use commitment schemes within more advanced protocols such as veriﬁable
secret sharing or zero-knowledge proofs for generic statements, it is useful to
have non-interactive zero-knowledge proofs of knowledge of commitments. More
precisely, one wishes to prove that they know the value to which a commitment
c corresponds without giving away any information about it.
Let us consider the commitment scheme of Fig. 6, extended to the message
space {0, . . . N}. Given public parameters pp = {t0, . . . tN} consisting of N + 1
random tensors from V, we consider the relation
R = {(c, (i, (A, B, C)))|c = (A, B, C) ⋆ti},
where c is the statement and (i, (A, B, C)) is the witness. This means given c we
wish to prove knowledge of the message i and randomness (A, B, C) to which
c corresponds, without revealing anything about them. We brieﬂy expose two
ways of obtaining such a proof.
Using a Variant of OR-Proofs. A proof for R can be obtained by com-
bining a variant of an OR-proof [19] and a proof for Ri = {((c, ti), (A, B, C)))
|c = (A, B, C) ⋆ti}, to show that one knows an isomorphism mapping c to a
particular choice of one of the ti. A proof for R can be obtained by adapting, for
example, the graph isomorphism proof [26]. However, using OR-proofs increases
the communication cost in the answer of the prover, and we will therefore prefer
to build a direct proof for the full relation R.
A Direct Proof for R. We give in Fig. 7 a sigma protocol that directly gives
a proof for R.
We sketch the extractor for special soundness and simulator for honest-
veriﬁer zero-knowledge below.

168
V. Gilchrist et al.
Prover1(pp, i, c, (A, B, C))
1: A , B , C
$ GLn(q)3
2: σ
$ Sn
3: for j = 1, . . . N do
4:
dj
(A , B , C )
tσ(j)
5: end for
6: st
(pp, (A, B, C), (A , B , C ), σ)
7: Send (dj)N
j=1 to Veriﬁer
8: return st
Prover2(st, ch)
1: if ch = 0 then
2:
resp
((A , B , C ), σ)
3:
return resp
4: end if
5: resp
(A(A )−1, B(B )−1, C(C )−1), σ(i))
6: return resp
Veriﬁer1(pp, c, (dj)N
j=1)
1: ch
$
−{ 0, 1}
2: st
(pp, ch, c, (dj)N
j=1), ti)
3: Send ch to Prover
4: return st
Veriﬁer2(st, resp)
1: if ch = 0 then
2:
resp
(( ˜A, ˜B, ˜C), σ)
3:
return
i, ( ˜A, ˜B, ˜C)
tσ(i) = di
4: end if
5: resp
( ˜A, ˜B, ˜C), i )
6: return
( ˜A, ˜B, ˜C)
di = c
Fig. 7. Proof system for R
Special-Soundness. Suppose we have two accepting transcripts with diﬀerent
challenges, ((dj)N
j=1, ch0, resp0) and ((dj)N
j=1, ch1, resp1). Without loss of gener-
ality, we assume ch0 = 0. Then we can build an extractor E which, given these
transcripts as input, does the following: Recover (A′, B′, C′) from resp0 and
(A(A′)−1, B(B′)−1, C(C′)−1) from resp1. Compute (A, B, C) by multiplying the
latter by the former. Recover i′ from resp0 and recover the correct i = σ−1(i′).
Then (i, (A, B, C)) is the witness.
Honest-Veriﬁer Zero-Knowledge. We now sketch the simulator. In the case
ch = 0, the simulator just follows the protocol honestly and will be producing
an accepting transcript. In the ch = 1 case, the simulator samples (A′, B′, C′)
and σ as in the protocol, then picks some index j and sets dj = ((A′)−1,
(B′)−1, (C′)−1)⋆c. The other di for i ̸= j are computed according to the protocol.
The distribution will remain computationally indistinguishable since (A′, B′, C′)
is random. The answer then consists of j and (A′, B′, C′).
5
Conclusion
In this work, we study low rank points and stabilizers on unit tensors. We show
how this information gives us the tools to break the hiding property of the bit
commitment scheme proposed in [20] at Asiacrypt 2023, that uses these unit ten-
sors. Our attacks further allow to recover all the secret information used during
the creation of the commitment. All of these algorithms run in polynomial time,
which leaves the framework introduced in [20] with no concrete instantiation.
Prior to this work, there was no evidence in the literature suggesting that unit
tensors were not secure for use in cryptography.

Solving the Tensor Isomorphism Problem
169
With these attacks in mind, we propose a slightly diﬀerent framework as
well as a construction that makes use of random tensors. This allows us to build
a statistically binding, computationally hiding commitment from non-transitive
group actions. Finally, we complete this work by proposing a zero-knowledge
proof of opening for our new commitment scheme.
At the moment, as pointed out by [20], the ﬁeld of commitment schemes from
non-transitive group actions is lacking protocols that are both post-quantum and
non-interactive. We hope our new construction helps to ﬁll this gap, and that
our attacks can help to inform future cryptography designers on some of the
limits of working with unit tensors. We leave any further investigation into a
commitment scheme using the framework proposed in [20] as future work.
Acknowledgements. We thank the anonymous reviewers for their careful reading
and several suggestions. We thank Youming Qiao for the helpful discussions and for
referring us to [12]. Valerie Gilchrist is supported by a FRIA grant by the National Fund
for Scientiﬁc Research (F.N.R.S.) of Belgium; Christophe Petit is partly supported by
EPSRC through grant number EP/V011324/1; Gang Tang is partly supported by
the Australian Research Council Linkage Projects LP220100332, Sydney Quantum
Academy and EPSRC through grant number EP/V011324/1.
Appendix
A
Proofs
The proofs included here are done via a very computational approach, using core
deﬁnitions. We encourage the reader who wants to familiarize themselves with
these deﬁnitions to do them as exercise.
Lemma 5. Let λa, λb, λc ∈Fq be such that λaλbλc = 1. Then for all v ∈V, we
have that (λaIn, λbIn, λcIn) ⋆v = v.
Proof. Let us write v = n
i,j,k=1 v(i, j, k)ei ⊗ej ⊗ek. We have
(λaIn, λbIn, λcIn) ⋆v =
n

i,j,k=1
v(i, j, k)(λaIn)ei ⊗(λbIn)ej ⊗(λcIn)ek
=
n

i,j,k=1
v(i, j, k)λaλbλcei ⊗ej ⊗ek
=
n

i,j,k=1
v(i, j, k)ei ⊗ej ⊗ek since λaλbλc = 1
= v
⊓⊔
Lemma 7. Let σ ∈Sn, then there exists Pσ such that (Pσ, Pσ, Pσ) ⋆t0 = t0,
given by Pσ = (pij)n
i,j=1 and pij = 1i=σ(j).

170
V. Gilchrist et al.
Proof. Let t0 = n
s=1 es ⊗es ⊗es, then we can express the action (A, B, C) ⋆t0
(from (3.3)) as (A, B, C)∗(n
s=1 es⊗es⊗es) = n
i,j,k
n
s=1 AisBjsCksei⊗ej⊗ek.
(Pσ, Pσ, Pσ) ⋆t0 =
n

i,j,k=1
n

s=1
(Pσ)is(Pσ)js(Pσ)ksei ⊗ej ⊗ek
=
n

i,j,k=1
n

s=1
1i=σ(s)1j=σ(s)1k=σ(s)ei ⊗ej ⊗ek
=
n

i,j,k=1
n

s=1
1i=j=k1i=σ(s)ei ⊗ej ⊗ek
=
n

m=1
n

s=1
1m=σ(s)em ⊗em ⊗em
=
n

m=1
em ⊗em ⊗em = t0
since σ is a bijection.
⊓⊔
References
1. Alamati, N., De Feo, L., Montgomery, H., Patranabis, S.: Cryptographic group
actions and applications. In: Moriai, S., Wang, H. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2020, Part
II. LNCS, vol. 12492, pp. 411–439. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-64834-3 14
2. Albrecht, M.R., Fenzi, G., Lapiha, O., Nguyen, N.K.: SLAP: succinct lattice-based
polynomial commitments from standard assumptions. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Paper 2023/1469 (2023). https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1469
3. Aragon, N., Gaborit, P., Hauteville, A., Tillich, J.: A new algorithm for solving
the rank syndrome decoding problem. In: 2018 IEEE International Symposium on
Information Theory, ISIT 2018, Vail, CO, USA, June 17–22, 2018, pp. 2421–2425.
IEEE (2018). https://doi.org/10.1109/ISIT.2018.8437464
4. Bardet, M., et al.: Improvements of algebraic attacks for solving the rank decoding
and MinRank problems. In: Moriai, S., Wang, H. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2020, Part I.
LNCS, vol. 12491, pp. 507–536. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-64837-4 17
5. Barenghi, A., Biasse, J., Persichetti, E., Santini, P.: On the computational hardness
of the code equivalence problem in cryptography. Adv. Math. Commun. 17(1), 23–
55 (2023). https://doi.org/10.3934/AMC.2022064
6. Baum, C., Damg˚ard, I., Lyubashevsky, V., Oechsner, S., Peikert, C.: More eﬃcient
commitments from structured lattice assumptions. In: Catalano, D., De Prisco, R.
(eds.) SCN 2018. LNCS, vol. 11035, pp. 368–385. Springer, Cham (2018). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-98113-0 20
7. Beullens, W.: Not enough LESS: an improved algorithm for solving code equiva-
lence problems over Fq. In: Dunkelman, O., Jacobson, Jr., M.J., O’Flynn, C. (eds.)
SAC 2020. LNCS, vol. 12804, pp. 387–403. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-030-81652-0 15

Solving the Tensor Isomorphism Problem
171
8. Beullens, W., Kleinjung, T., Vercauteren, F.: CSI-FiSh: eﬃcient isogeny based
signatures through class group computations. In: Galbraith, S.D., Moriai, S.
(eds.) ASIACRYPT 2019. LNCS, vol. 11921, pp. 227–247. Springer, Cham (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-34578-5 9
9. Bl¨aser, M., et al.: The alteq signature scheme: Algorithm speciﬁcations and sup-
porting documentation (2023). https://pqcalteq.github.io/ALTEQ spec 2024.03.
05.pdf
10. Bouillaguet, C., Fouque, P.-A., V´eber, A.: Graph-theoretic algorithms for the “Iso-
morphism of Polynomials” problem. In: Johansson, T., Nguyen, P.Q. (eds.) EURO-
CRYPT 2013. LNCS, vol. 7881, pp. 211–227. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-38348-9 13
11. Brassard, G., Yung, M.: One-way group actions. In: Menezes, A.J., Vanstone, S.A.
(eds.) CRYPTO 1990. LNCS, vol. 537, pp. 94–107. Springer, Heidelberg (1991).
https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-38424-3 7
12. B¨urgisser, P., Ikenmeyer, C.: Geometric complexity theory and tensor rank. CoRR
abs/1011.1350 (2010). http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1350
13. Castryck, W., Lange, T., Martindale, C., Panny, L., Renes, J.: CSIDH: an eﬃcient
post-quantum commutative group action. In: Peyrin, T., Galbraith, S. (eds.) ASI-
ACRYPT 2018, Part III. LNCS, vol. 11274, pp. 395–427. Springer, Cham (2018).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-03332-3 15
14. Chen, M., Lai, Y., Laval, A., Marco, L., Petit, C.: Malleable commitments from
group actions and zero-knowledge proofs for circuits based on isogenies. In: Chat-
topadhyay, A., Bhasin, S., Picek, S., Rebeiro, C. (eds.) INDOCRYPT 2023, Part I.
LNCS, vol. 14459, pp. 221–243. Springer, Cham (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-031-56232-7 11
15. Chou, T., et al.: Matrix equivalence digital signature (2023). https://www.meds-
pqc.org/spec/MEDS-2023-07-26.pdf
16. Chou, T., et al.: Take your MEDS: digital signatures from matrix code equivalence.
In: Mrabet, N.E., Feo, L.D., Duquesne, S. (eds.) AFRICACRYPT 2023. LNCS,
vol. 14064, pp. 28–52. Springer, Cham (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-
37679-5 2
17. Couveignes, J.M.: Hard homogeneous spaces. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper
2006/291 (2006), https://eprint.iacr.org/2006/291
18. Couvreur, A., Debris-Alazard, T., Gaborit, P.: On the hardness of code equivalence
problems in rank metric. CoRR abs/2011.04611 (2020). https://arxiv.org/abs/
2011.04611
19. Cramer, R., Damg˚ard, I., Schoenmakers, B.: Proofs of partial knowledge and sim-
pliﬁed design of witness hiding protocols. In: Desmedt, Y.G. (ed.) CRYPTO 1994.
LNCS, vol. 839, pp. 174–187. Springer, Heidelberg (1994). https://doi.org/10.1007/
3-540-48658-5 19
20. D’Alconzo, G., Flamini, A., Gangemi, A.: Non-interactive commitment from non-
transitive group actions. In: Guo, J., Steinfeld, R. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2023. LNCS,
vol. 14444, pp. 222–252. Springer, Singapore (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
981-99-8739-9 8
21. Ducas, L., van Woerden, W.P.J.: On the lattice isomorphism problem, quadratic
forms, remarkable lattices, and cryptography. In: Dunkelman, O., Dziembowski,
S. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT 2022, Part III. LNCS, vol.
13277, pp. 643–673. Springer, Cham (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-
07082-2 23

172
V. Gilchrist et al.
22. Fenzi, G., Moghaddas, H., Nguyen, N.K.: Lattice-based polynomial commitments:
Towards asymptotic and concrete eﬃciency. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper
2023/846 (2023). https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/846
23. Fiat, A., Shamir, A.: How to prove yourself: practical solutions to identiﬁcation and
signature problems. In: Odlyzko, A.M. (ed.) CRYPTO 1986. LNCS, vol. 263, pp.
186–194. Springer, Heidelberg (1987). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-47721-7 12
24. Frederiksen, T.K., Pinkas, B., Yanai, A.: Committed MPC. In: Abdalla, M., Dahab,
R. (eds.) PKC 2018, Part I. LNCS, vol. 10769, pp. 587–619. Springer, Cham (2018).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-76578-5 20
25. Fulman, J., Goldstein, L.: Stein’s method and the rank distribution of random
matrices over ﬁnite ﬁelds. Ann. Probab. 43(3) (2015). https://doi.org/10.1214/
13-aop889
26. Goldreich, O., Micali, S., Wigderson, A.: Proofs that yield nothing but their validity
or all languages in NP have zero-knowledge proof systems. J. ACM 38(3), 690–728
(1991). https://doi.org/10.1145/116825.116852
27. Grochow, J.A., Qiao, Y.: On the complexity of isomorphism problems for tensors,
groups, and polynomials I: tensor isomorphism-completeness. In: Lee, J.R. (ed.)
12th Innovations in Theoretical Computer Science Conference, ITCS 2021, January
6–8, 2021, Virtual Conference. LIPIcs, vol. 185, pp. 31:1–31:19. Schloss Dagstuhl
- Leibniz-Zentrum f¨ur Informatik (2021). https://doi.org/10.4230/LIPICS.ITCS.
2021.31, https://doi.org/10.4230/LIPIcs.ITCS.2021.31
28. Grochow, J.A., Qiao, Y., Tang, G.: Average-case algorithms for testing isomor-
phism of polynomials, algebras, and multilinear forms. In: Bl¨aser, M., Monmege,
B. (eds.) 38th International Symposium on Theoretical Aspects of Computer Sci-
ence, STACS 2021, March 16-19, 2021, Saarbr¨ucken, Germany (Virtual Confer-
ence). LIPIcs, vol. 187, pp. 38:1–38:17. Schloss Dagstuhl - Leibniz-Zentrum f¨ur
Informatik (2021). https://doi.org/10.4230/LIPICS.STACS.2021.38
29. H˚astad, J.: Tensor rank is NP-complete. J. Algorithms 11(4), 644–654 (1990).
https://doi.org/10.1016/0196-6774(90)90014-6
30. Hillar, C.J., Lim, L.: Most tensor problems are NP-hard. J. ACM 60(6), 45:1–45:39
(2013). https://doi.org/10.1145/2512329
31. Jain, A., Krenn, S., Pietrzak, K., Tentes, A.: Commitments and eﬃcient zero-
knowledge proofs from learning parity with noise. In: Wang, X., Sako, K. (eds.)
ASIACRYPT 2012. LNCS, vol. 7658, pp. 663–680. Springer, Heidelberg (2012).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-34961-4 40
32. Ji, Z., Qiao, Y., Song, F., Yun, A.: General linear group action on tensors: a
candidate for post-quantum cryptography. In: Hofheinz, D., Rosen, A. (eds.) TCC
2019, Part I. LNCS, vol. 11891, pp. 251–281. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-030-36030-6 11
33. Juels, A., Luby, M., Ostrovsky, R.: Security of blind digital signatures (extended
abstract). In: Kaliski Jr., B.S. (ed.) CRYPTO 1997. LNCS, vol. 1294, pp. 150–164.
Springer, Heidelberg (1997). https://doi.org/10.1007/BFB0052233
34. Kipnis, A., Shamir, A.: Cryptanalysis of the oil & vinegar signature scheme. In:
Krawczyk, H. (ed.) CRYPTO 1998. LNCS, vol. 1462, pp. 257–266. Springer, Hei-
delberg (1998). https://doi.org/10.1007/BFB0055733
35. Leon, J.: Computing automorphism groups of error-correcting codes. IEEE Trans.
Inf. Theory 28(3), 496–511 (1982)
36. Lyubashevsky, V., Nguyen, N.K., Seiler, G.: Shorter lattice-based zero-knowledge
proofs via one-time commitments. In: Garay, J.A. (ed.) PKC 2021, Part I. LNCS,
vol. 12710, pp. 215–241. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-75245-3 9

Solving the Tensor Isomorphism Problem
173
37. Morozov, K., Roy, P.S., Sakurai, K.: On unconditionally binding code-based com-
mitment schemes. In: Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on Ubiq-
uitous Information Management and Communication. IMCOM ’17, New York,
NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery (2017). https://doi.org/10.1145/
3022227.3022327
38. Naor, M.: Bit commitment using pseudorandomness. J. Cryptol. 4(2), 151–158
(1991). https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00196774
39. Narayanan, A.K., Qiao, Y., Tang, G.: Algorithms for matrix code and alternating
trilinear form equivalences via new isomorphism invariants. In: Joye, M., Leander,
G. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2024, Part III. LNCS, vol. 14653, pp. 160–187. Springer,
Cham (2024). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-58734-4 6
40. Ostrovsky, R., Persiano, G., Visconti, I.: Simulation-based concurrent non-
malleable commitments and decommitments. In: Reingold, O. (ed.) TCC 2009.
LNCS, vol. 5444, pp. 91–108. Springer, Heidelberg (2009). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-642-00457-5 7
41. Patarin, J.: Hidden ﬁelds equations (HFE) and isomorphisms of polynomials (IP):
two new families of asymmetric algorithms. In: Maurer, U. (ed.) EUROCRYPT
1996. LNCS, vol. 1070, pp. 33–48. Springer, Heidelberg (1996). https://doi.org/10.
1007/3-540-68339-9 4
42. Pedersen, T.P.: Non-interactive and information-theoretic secure veriﬁable secret
sharing. In: Feigenbaum, J. (ed.) CRYPTO 1991. LNCS, vol. 576, pp. 129–140.
Springer, Heidelberg (1992). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-46766-1 9
43. Poelstra, A., Back, A., Friedenbach, M., Maxwell, G., Wuille, P.: Conﬁdential
assets. In: Zohar, A., et al. (eds.) FC 2018. LNCS, vol. 10958, pp. 43–63. Springer,
Heidelberg (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-58820-8 4
44. Reijnders, K., Samardjiska, S., Trimoska, M.: Hardness estimates of the code equiv-
alence problem in the rank metric. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch. p. 276 (2022).
https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/276
45. Rostovtsev, A., Stolbunov, A.: Public-key cryptosystem based on isogenies. Cryp-
tology ePrint Archive, Paper 2006/145 (2006). https://eprint.iacr.org/2006/145
46. Schaefer, M., Stefankovic, D.: The complexity of tensor rank. Theory Comput.
Syst. 62(5), 1161–1174 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/S00224-017-9800-Y
47. Sterner, B.: Commitment schemes from supersingular elliptic curve isogeny graphs.
J. Math. Cryptol. (2021)
48. Tang, G., Duong, D.H., Joux, A., Plantard, T., Qiao, Y., Susilo, W.: Practical
post-quantum signature schemes from isomorphism problems of trilinear forms. In:
Dunkelman, O., Dziembowski, S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2022, Part III. LNCS, vol.
13277, pp. 582–612. Springer (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-07082-
2 21

