That’s Not My Signature! Fail-Stop
Signatures for a Post-quantum World
Cecilia Boschini1(B), Hila Dahari2, Moni Naor2, and Eyal Ronen3
1 ETH Z¨urich, Z¨urich, Switzerland
cecilia.boschini@inf.ethz.ch
2 Weizmann Institute, Rehovot, Israel
{hila.dahari,moni.naor}@weizmann.ac.il
3 Tel-Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel
eyal.ronen@cs.tau.ac.il
Abstract. The Snowden’s revelations kick-started a community-wide
eﬀort to develop cryptographic tools against mass surveillance. In this
work, we propose to add another primitive to that toolbox: Fail-Stop Sig-
natures (FSS) [49]. FSS are digital signatures enhanced with a forgery-
detection mechanism that can protect a computationally bounded signer
from more powerful attackers. Despite the fascinating concept, research
in this area stalled after the ’90 s. However, the ongoing transition to
post-quantum cryptography, with its hiccups due to the novelty of under-
lying assumptions, has become the perfect use case for FSS. This paper
aims to reboot research on FSS with practical use in mind: Our frame-
work for FSS includes “ﬁne-grained” security deﬁnitions (that assume
a powerful, but bounded adversary e.g.: can break 128-bit of security,
but not 256-bit). As an application, we show new FSS constructions for
the post-quantum setting. We show that FSS are equivalent to standard,
provably secure digital signatures that do not require rewinding or pro-
gramming random oracles, and that this implies lattice-based FSS. Our
main construction is an FSS version of SPHINCS+, which required build-
ing FSS versions of all its building blocks: WOTS+, XMSS, and FORS. In
the process, we identify and provide generic solutions for two fundamen-
tal issues arising when deriving a large number of private keys from a
single seed, and when building FSS for Hash-and-Sign-based signatures.
Keywords: Fail-stop signature · foundations · hash-based signature ·
SPHINCS+
1
Introduction
At Asiacrypt 2015, Phillip Rogaway gave a thought-provoking IACR Distin-
guished Lecture titled “The Moral Character of Cryptographic Work” [37]. In
light of the Snowden revelations, Rogaway called for a “community-wide eﬀort
to develop more eﬀective means to resist mass surveillance”. Threat actors such
as nation-states have many possible approaches when trying to build such mass
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2024
L. Reyzin and D. Stebila (Eds.): CRYPTO 2024, LNCS 14920, pp. 107–140, 2024.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-68376-3_4

108
C. Boschini et al.
surveillance capabilities. Of these possible approaches, the most sought-after is
arguably discovering and using a secret cryptographic attack that is not pub-
licly known. More speciﬁcally, the ability to forge digital signatures and thus
subvert trust mechanisms such as Public Key Infrastructures (PKIs) can lead
to devastating results. In this work, we explore the use of Fail-Stop Signature
(FSS) [49] to resist such a mass surveillance attempt. By using FSSs, we can
allow honest signers to prove that a powerful adversary has forged a signature.
In fact, the signer can prove to the world that a previously unknown crypto-
graphic attack has indeed been exploited, and provably pinpoint the security
assumption that was broken. Thanks to this proof, schemes based on the broken
security assumption can be promptly deprecated and replaced with secure ones.
Digital Signatures. In recent years, digital signatures have received signiﬁcant
attention from the academic community due to the possible threat of quantum
computers. Today, all widely deployed digital signature schemes are vulnerable
to quantum attacks. This motivates research into new and post-quantum secure
digital schemes (e.g., the NIST post-quantum standardization eﬀorts [2,32]).
Researchers are trying to develop new schemes and gain better understanding on
both their classical and post-quantum security. This leads to a fast paced research
cycle of proposed schemes and attacks that either completely break the under-
lying assumptions [8], or show that larger security parameters are needed [30].
Adding to the uncertainty is the fact that the academic community might not
be aware of advances in both quantum computers and cryptanalysis achieved by
nation-states and kept secret to be weaponized (e.g., the exploit of MD5 colli-
sions for Flame [51], on which we elaborate later in the section). This leads to
the following natural question:
Can we build a mechanism to expose a previously unknown attack on a digital
signature scheme that has been exploited in practice?
Although such a mechanism should not replace ongoing research on the security
of the diﬀerent schemes, it can serve as a “canary in the coal mine”, and alert
us if a scheme is practically broken and should be deprecated immediately. This
can also act as a major deterrent against wide usage of exploits: such attacks
are usually very costly to both develop and implement, so it would be a major
loss (for the attacker) if one is detected and the aﬀected scheme deprecated.
“Believably Hard” Cryptographic Assumptions. In cryptography, all
practical (and most impractical) schemes are built based on one or more secu-
rity assumptions. The trust placed in security assumptions is based on the fact
that the cryptographic community has not yet been able to break them. How-
ever, there is no guarantee that these assumptions will remain secure in the
future, as numerous schemes have been broken over time (e.g., the recent key-
recovery attacks on the Rainbow signature scheme [8] and SIDH [11,28]). The
case of security assumptions is no diﬀerent, as seen in the case of SHA-1, whose
ﬁrst theoretical attack appeared in 2005 [50] and became practical in 2017 [41].
Additionally, the advent of quantum computing presents a potential scenario
in which many security assumptions (e.g., factoring [40]) will no longer hold.

That’s Not My Signature! Fail-Stop Signatures for a Post-quantum World
109
Finally, expecting new attacks to be published is not a foolproof method, as
there could be parties who choose to keep their exploits private (e.g., nation-
states).
Furthermore, in modern cryptography the security of a scheme is typically
based on the assumption that a chosen security parameter is strong enough.
History shows that it is crucial to consider the possibility that the security
parameter may not be suﬃcient in practice: In 1986 Fiat and Shamir assumed
that a 512-bit length factoring challenge would be hard enough for virtually any
application, while in 2020, a 829-bit length factoring challenge was broken [10,
15]. This raises the question of how to determine if the chosen security parameter
is adequate in the face of ever-evolving attack methods.
The implications of a broken assumption can be severe, as seen in the Logjam
attack, where the parameters previously deemed strong enough (512-bit) were
found to be insecure due to advancements in computing power [1]. The attack
broke a version of Diﬃe-Hellman that at the time was used by most instanti-
ations of the TLS protocol, thus requiring an immediate, extensive update of
the protocol [1]. As we cannot get rid of cryptographic assumptions, it is fair to
wonder which mitigation measures can be put in place to reduce the impact of
a (possibly secret) exploit, and how much would they cost. The ideal solution
would be a “magic box” that could alert us when a security assumption has been
broken. Such a mechanism might require compromises, e.g., in term of signature
length. Moreover, it might not be an one-size-ﬁts-all kind of countermeasure,
but would require a clearly deﬁne adversarial scenario (e.g., assuming that some
assumptions would be harder to break than others). In the context of digital sig-
natures, it would be enough if one could detect forged signatures, and convince
a veriﬁer that a contested signature is in fact a forgery. Thus, we ask:
Given a digital signature secure under some cryptographic assumption, is there
a way to prove that a (maliciously generated) signature could only have been
generated by an entity that has broken the assumption?
Fail Stop Signatures achieve exactly this.
Fail-Stop Signatures. A Fail-Stop Signature (FSS) is a signature scheme that
incorporates this kind of “canary in the coal mine” mechanism. It allows a com-
putationally bounded signer to prove whether an unbounded adversary managed
to forge signatures [49]. Hence the origin of “Fail-Stop”: in case the signature
scheme fails (there exists an adversary who can break the scheme), the hon-
est signer can produce a publicly veriﬁable proof to the world to stop using the
scheme, due to its state of insecurity. Surprisingly, only a handful of works on the
topic exist [5,14,38,47,48], which do not go much further than laying the foun-
dations. The original model [33,35] includes a (potentially malicious) authority
that interacts with the signer during key generation. The rest of the protocol is
essentially a standard signature enhanced with a “forgery detection” procedure.
Security enhances standard unforgeability (even against a malicious authority)
with two additional properties: security for the signer and security for the recip-
ient. Security for the signer guarantees that if an unbounded attacker can

110
C. Boschini et al.
generate a valid forgery, then a signer can generate a publicly veriﬁable “proof
of forgery” showing that the hardness assumption underlying the scheme’s secu-
rity has been broken. Security for the recipient prevents the possibility of
a malicious signer being able to sign a message and subsequently disown it by
producing a proof of non-authorship. We note that if the adversary can break
the scheme, but does nothing actively, nothing can be proven (but nothing is
gained by the adversary either). However, one forgery is enough to prove to the
world that the scheme is broken. Thus we believe that the “forgery detection”
procedure may deter wide exploits of unknown vulnerabilities.
Can We Trust the Authority? FSS for the Real World. Parameters of
real-life implementations of cryptographic protocols have to be set by an author-
ity (e.g., NIST). This implies a certain level of trust: even when choosing the
hash function, there are cases (e.g., SNARKs) that require diﬀerent hashes [6]
than the tried and tested SHA-256. The role of such a party is usually limited,
and in many cases one assumes it exists without even formally model it. As
our work focuses on real world uses of FSS, we adapt the FSS framework to
explicitly include this and similar “common practices”. In particular we require
the key generation to be non-interactive, and we assume the authority that pro-
duces the common reference string for the proof of forgeries to be trusted. One
could argue that the latter is contradictory with the goal of protecting against
powerful adversaries: why would we trust e.g., a standardization body, if we
do not trust nation-states? The answer is that the contribution of the trusted
authority is limited to the setup/key generation phase, and can in fact be dis-
tributed, e.g., using MPC. Non-interactive key generation, when coupled with a
trusted setup, eliminates the need for real-time interaction. This allows to drop
the requirement of real-time communication between parties, thus eradicating
the possibility of attackers exploiting the communication channel, e.g., with net-
work attacks, timing attacks, and other forms of interception. Finally, while in
the original model the adversary is computationally unbounded, we allow for
ﬁne-grained security deﬁnitions: we assume that the adversary might be more
powerful that the signer, but will still be computationally bounded. For exam-
ple, the adversary might be powerful enough to break 128-bit of security, but
not 256-bit of security. All of these framework changes allow us to construct
practical post-quantum FSSs.
Can Forgeries Be Caught by an Honest Signer in the Real World?
Checking signature logs for possible forgeries is already a common approach in
cyberattack forensics. For example, in the notorious Flame attack [51], signatures
on Microsoft software were forged by exploiting collisions in MD5. The forged
signatures were recovered from an analysis of the malware and compared to the
benign ones. As Microsoft logs all such signatures (as is required for our log-based
solution for FSS augmentation of Hash-and-Sign schemes described in Sect. 6),
it was possible to discover that the attacker did not compromise Microsoft, but
that an advanced cryptographic attack against MD5 was exploited in the wild.
This is in contrast, for example, to the Diginotar attack in 2011, where an
attacker with internal access to the system generated fraudulent certiﬁcates. The

That’s Not My Signature! Fail-Stop Signatures for a Post-quantum World
111
result of attributing the forged signatures to an advanced cryptographic attack
was an acceleration in the process of MD5 deprecation. FSS can allow similar
future attribution in case the signature scheme itself is broken. Our proposed
application to the case of post-quantum schemes is particularly timely [13]. We
cannot be sure that the next breakthrough will be published and not kept secret
for exploitation by nation-state actors. Having a fail-stop mechanism allows us
to detect if such an attack has been exploited in the wild.
Related Works. The ﬁrst attempt to deal with accountability in digital sig-
natures schemes was in the electronic cash protocol of Chaum, Fiat and Naor,
that allowed the bank to prove double-spending of coins [12]. Later, Pﬁtzmann
and Waidner suggested the notion of fail-stop signatures [33,35,49]. Several con-
structions of FSS exist in the literature, based on various assumptions such as
the factoring assumption [29,44,52], the RSA assumption [43,46] and a generic
construction based on one-way functions [14]. A good overview can be found in
[33]. There are works on making the scheme more eﬃcient in terms of length
of one signature [39,42,45,48], and how to compress eﬃciently many FSS [5].
Lower bounds for the length of public key and signatures appear in [47].
1.1
Our Results
The aim of this work is to lay the foundations for future research on practical
FSS. Hence, our ﬁrst contribution is a restriction of the FSS framework
[33] that will be conducive to practical schemes. The key diﬀerences are a non-
interactive key-generation protocol, ﬁne-grained security deﬁnitions, and that
the authority is now trusted. All come from observing how these kind of protocols
are implemented in practice. For completeness, we also recap and extend existing
results on minimal assumptions to construct FSS, and we prove the equivalence
of FSS with (a subset of) digital signatures (due to space constraints the proofs
are deferred to the full version [9]). The latter extends a result by Pedersen and
Pﬁtzman [33], that only proved that FSS imply signatures. Finally, we show two
FSS instantiations from post-quantum computational assumptions (from lattices
and from hash functions). The ﬁrst is a theoretical Lattice-Based FSS con-
struction that follows from our equivalence result (deferred to the full version
[9]). The second is a practical FSS augmentation of SPHINCS+, a hash-based
signature chosen for standardization by NIST. As stepping stones towards the
latter, we include three diﬀerent independent FSS variants of tree other signa-
tures, WOTS+, FORS, and XMSS, which are the building blocks of SPHINCS+.
In doing so we highlight and overcome some diﬃculties inherent to adding a
fail-stop mechanism to any Hash-and-Sign signature. We expect our approach
to be applicable to a wider range of signatures.
Solidifying the Foundations of FSS. The original FSS deﬁnition seems to
imply a non-interactive key generation. Accordingly, all known non-black-box
constructions of FSS do not require interaction between the signer and a trusted
authority. However, the only known black-box construction of FSS from one-way

112
C. Boschini et al.
Table 1. Size comparison between SPHINCS+ and FSS.SPHINCS implemented with
either a message log, or with parallel-signing. Parameters are given for a security level
λr = 128, where the ﬁne-grained fail-stop mechanism ensures λs = 256 bits of security,
reachable with expansion factor cs = 2 and compression factor c = 8 (cf. Sect. 8.1).
pk
(bytes)
sk
(bytes)
sig
(bytes)
Bit Sec
Recipient
Bit Sec
Signer
SPHINCS+-128 s
32
64
7856
128
128
FSS.SPHINCS-128 s, cs = 2 (log)
32
96
11,790 128
256
FSS.SPHINCS-128 s, cs = 2 (cs sigs) 32
96
23,580 128
256
SPHINCS+-256 s
64
128
29,792 256
256
functions relies on statistically hiding commitments [14,19], which inherently
require multiple rounds of interaction between the signer and the authority [18].
We propose a classiﬁcation of FSS schemes in three classes, depending on the
level of participation of the authority in the key generation, and review the min-
imal assumptions needed for each of the three types (see Table 2). Details are
deferred to the full version [9] due to length constraints. While constructing FSS
from OWF remains a non-trivial open problem, we make a ﬁrst step in that
direction, by showing an equivalence result between FSS and digital signatures
under some constraints. When an FSS is constructed from a signature, the secu-
rity reduction of the signature is turned into a proof-of-forgery algorithm, which
can be done only with some restrictions on the security reduction. For exam-
ple the process of extracting a witness for the (computationally hard) language
should not require performing actions that are not possible in the real world,
such as rewinding the adversary or programming random oracles. Moreover, the
secret key should have high entropy even when conditioned on the signature (e.g.,
many private keys can generate the same signature). While the lattice-based sig-
nature satisﬁes these requirements, SPHINCS+ does not (e.g., the hash is not
compressing; thus, an unbounded adversary would have been able to bruteforce
its input and recover the secret key). Our new compiler from a signature to a
FSS allows to build two post-quantum FSS from lattices in the standard model.
As these schemes are the least practical, we defer them to the full version [9],
and focus on our main result: FSS.SPHINCS.
Augmenting SPHINCS+ to an FSS. Our main contribution is augmenting
SPHINCS+ to an FSS. SPHINCS+ [7] is a stateless hash-based signature scheme,
which is the only post-quantum signatures standardized by NIST [22] that is not
based on lattices. Adding a fail-stop mechanism to SPHINCS+ [7] turned out to
be quite complicated, and yielded techniques that will have broader impact on
future instatiations of FSS. In fact, SPHINCS+ has three main components:
WOTS+ (a one-time signature), XMSS (i.e., multiple WOTS+ instances com-
pressed with a Merkle tree), and FORS, which is a “few-time” signature scheme
based on binary trees similar to XMSS. As the details of the construction are
quite intricate, we opt for building the FSS-variants of all three of them, to then

That’s Not My Signature! Fail-Stop Signatures for a Post-quantum World
113
show how to combine them to obtain FSS.SPHINCS. In doing so, we identify (and
propose mitigation for) two interesting issues that arise when building FSS in
presence of pseudorandom functions (PRF) and of the Hash-and-Sign paradigm.
The result is a very speciﬁc ﬁne-grained security model, where we increase the
size of the security parameters only for speciﬁc primitives (such as PRFs), while
keeping the security parameters of other primitives (such as hash functions)
the same as the original scheme. The security proof relies on the reductions
for SPHINCS+ included in the NIST speciﬁcation [3]. In terms of eﬃciency, the
main impact of adding a fail-stop mechanism is on the signature size, which
increases additively by a factor linear in a constant c (as a direct result of the
fail-stop mechanism). However, Table 1 shows that augmenting to FSS.SPHINCS
still results in a smaller signature compared to simply using SPHINCS+ with
a higher security level. Indeed, consider FSS.SPHINCS with λr = 128, that is,
that guarantees 128 bits of security for standard unforgeability (and security for
the recipient), and λs = 256 (that is, it guarantees 256 bits of security for the
signer). Table 1 shows the size comparison with SPHINCS+ for the two security
levels 128 and 256. FSS.SPHINCS provides a signiﬁcantly shorter signature, even
in its less eﬃcient variant, while the signature size of SPHINCS+ increases by a
factor 4 when going from 128-bit security to 256-bit security. Further details on
the computations can be found in Sect. 8.1.
Hash-and-Sign Paradigm.
In most practical digital signatures, signing
requires to ﬁrst hash the message to a ﬁxed length, and then sign the hash
value (e.g., RSA, DSA, ECDSA, and SPHINCS+). Unfortunately, na¨ıvely aug-
menting such signatures with a fail-stop mechanism yields a vulnerability: An
unbounded adversary can ﬁnd a collision on the hash, that is, two messages m
and m′ such that h(m) = h(m′). In this case, the adversary can query a signa-
ture σ on m and use it to authenticate m′. The honest signer cannot generate a
proof that (m′, σ) is a forgery, because the adversary did not break the scheme,
but the hash function. Section 6 illustrates two workarounds: keeping a log, or
parallel-signing.
1.2
Open Problems and Conclusions
Our systematic study of the notions of FSS lays the foundations to re-open an
exciting line of research. In fact, several natural questions stem from our work.
From a more theoretical point of view, an exciting direction is to investigate
whether OWF are enough to construct all types of FSS. Regarding applications,
the ﬁeld is even more open. Can we generalize our construction to a generic
compiler for hash-based signatures? Can we augment Schnorr signature to a FSS?
Can we extend more NIST-PQ signature candidates with a fail-stop mechanism
(e.g., extend our approach to lattice-based FSS to Falcon [36])? Can we better
handle the Hash-and-Sign issue? Finally, it is a natural question to ask whether
FSS.SPHINCS can be proved secure in a weaker ﬁne-grained security model, and
whether ﬁne-grained assumptions are inherently necessary for hash-based FSS.

114
C. Boschini et al.
2
Technical Overview
We start by explaining the deﬁnition of FSS through a toy example, and then
move to FSS.WOTS, FSS.XMSS, FSS.FORS, and FSS.SPHINCS.
2.1
Warm-Up: A Toy Example
The intuition behind FSS is that any forgery generated without knowing the
secret key sk contains information that could not have been generated by a
polynomial-time machine (i.e., the signer), but that can be extracted using sk.
This information constitutes the “proof of forgery”. Thus, as long as the public
key pk does not correspond to a single sk, but allows for multiple valid sk’s, even
an unbounded adversary has to generate forgeries containing such information.
To give an intuition behind our choice for practical model, we start from a toy
example: augmenting Lamport signature [25] on 1-bit messages to a FSS. The
secret key is composed by two 128-random bits sk = (r0, r1), and the public key
is their hashes pk = (h(r0), h(r1)). A signature on b ∈{0, 1} is simply the string
rb. Security relies on the hardness of ﬁnding collisions for the underlying hash
function h : {0, 1}128 →{0, 1}128. Observe that if h(rb) has only one preimage,
an unbounded adversary can recover the private key rb and generate the same
signature as the honest signer, thus no proof of forgery can be generated. This
leads us to a necessary condition for FSS: The secret key must have enough
entropy [47]. To augment Lamport signature to an FSS, one has to change the
assumption on the hash function, which is now required to be a compressing
collision resistance hash function h : {0, 1}128+c →{0, 1}128, where c is such
that Pr[|{h−1(h(r))}| > 1] is high [23]. In this case an unbounded adversary
cannot verify which of the possible preimages of the public keys (h(r0), h(r1))
is the secret key. Thus, it cannot do better then guessing. In case of a forgery,
the honest signer can present the two signatures, the real one rb and the forgery
r′ ∈{h−1(h(rb))}, as a proof of forgery: a collision for h. Accordingly, security
for signer follows from compression: if there exist at least two preimages for
h(rb), even an unbounded adversary cannot ﬁnd rb with probability greater than
1/2. Security for recipient follows from (computational) collision-resistance: a
probabilistic polynomial-time (PPT) malicious signer cannot ﬁnd a collision for
h with high probability. In case of widespread attacks, constant probability is
enough to catch w.h.p that the scheme is broken (and attack has occurred).
Observe that every public key of a computationally secure digital signature
reveals some information about the secret key. This implies that an unbounded
adversary can ﬁnd the real secret key with some probability ϵ. Hence we model
the security for signer with respect to an “information theoretic” parameter ϵ.
Finally, the notion of FSS requires a trusted party in the setup phase. Intuitively,
the reason is to prevent the signer (or the adversary) from placing a trapdoor
in the public parameters. For example, in the Lamport signature, if the signer
could choose the public CRH by itself, it can choose a function with a hard-
coded collision, and use such information to reject its own signature as forgery.
Nevertheless, our model require to put very little trust in the “trusted authority”,

That’s Not My Signature! Fail-Stop Signatures for a Post-quantum World
115
as its contribution is limited to the setup/key generation phase. For example, in
FSS.SPHINCS the authority only chooses the hash function (SHA-256). In real
life, this authority can be the NIST (or comparable standardization bodies).
2.2
Augmenting SPHINCS+ to FSS.SPHINCS
In the following we give an informal description of SPHINCS+, and we show the
main issues that we encountered when converting it (and its building blocks)
to an FSS. Throughout this work, we assume the reader to be familiar with
SPHINCS+; for more information we refer to the full version [9].
Overview of SPHINCS+. SPHINCS+ is a hash-based signature obtained as an
interesting mixture of Goldreich’s binary authentication tree of one-time signa-
tures and Merkle signatures [16,31]. Its core structure is a hypertree, that is,
a modiﬁed Merkle tree where every leaf can be extended into a tree itself to
allow to sign very long messages with short signing keys. The “glue” between
the base tree and the next tree layer is a signature: Each leaf of the base tree
is in fact a public key of a one-time signature (OTS) called WOTS+. To add
another tree, one can generate fresh WOTS+ public keys, use them as the leaves
of the new tree, and sign its root with the WOTS+ public key contained in the
leaf of the base tree. The signature resulting from extending the one-time signa-
ture WOTS+ to a multiple-time signature through a Merkle tree is called XMSS.
However, SPHINCS+ is not just a hypertree of XMSS instances: for eﬃciency
reasons, the very last of the trees in the hypertree is connected to a similar
tree-based few-times signature called FORS, which is used to actually sign the
message digest.
The signature protocol is of the Hash-and-Sign kind: A message msg is ﬁrst
hashed to obtain a leaf index idx and a message digest MD. Then, the signer
generates only the trees on the path from the root pk to the leaf idx. The WOTS+
pk contained in the last leaf idx of the path is used to sign a FORS pk, which is in
turn used to sign the message digest MD. To recap, a signature on msg contains
the authentication path from the root pk to the leaf idx (including the WOTS+
signatures that connect the tree layers), the FORS signature on MD, and the
randomness used to generate the message digest.
It remains to explain how WOTS+ and FORS work. FORS utilizes k trees of
depth d, where the leaves in each tree are hashes of random strings (the sk’s).
The roots of the k trees form the public key. To sign a message msg∗, the message
is split into k blocks, each signed individually. The i-th block is treated as an
integer idxi ∈[1, d]. Signing the i-th block requires revealing the authentication
path from the root of the i-th tree to its idxi-th leaf, and a preimage of that
leaf, that is, one of the secret keys. WOTS+ is a one-time signature that relies
on ℓhash chains. The starting point of each chain is a block of the secret key (a
random bit string), and each subsequent chain element is obtained by hashing the
previous one. The public keys are the output of the last hash evaluation. Signing
a message implies revealing an intermediate value in each chain, where the level
depends on the message. To avoid easy forgeries, a signature is generated on

116
C. Boschini et al.
both the message and its checksum. Veriﬁcation requires to iterate the chaining
function on the signature until one obtains the public key. Observe that WOTS+
is deterministic: in SPHINCS+ this ensures the uniqueness of the entire hypertree
structure given the ﬁrst level. This implies that the key generation is eﬃcient,
as the signer only has to generate the ﬁrst level of the hypertree.
Before we describe our challenges in the construction, we state our result.
Theorem 1 (Informal)
– Assuming SPHINCS+ is unforgeable under adaptive CMA, and PRF, PRFmsg
are secure PRFs, then FSS.SPHINCS is unforgeable under adaptive CMA.
– Assuming SPHINCS+ is unforgeable under adaptive CMA, and PRF, PRFmsg
are secure PRFs, then FSS.SPHINCS is secure for signer against an adversary
A with running time at most 2csλs/2 (in the QROM).
– Assuming SPHINCS+ is unforgeable under adaptive CMA, then FSS.SPHINCS
is secure for the recipient.
Hiding the sk: Compressing Hash Chains. Adding a fail-stop mechanism
to WOTS+ can be done with an approach similar to the one used by Kiktenko
et al. [24]. In this work the authors identify the possibility of producing a proof-
of-forgery in some special cases, in particular, as long as the adversary could
not guess what is the correct preimage from the set of possible ones. Intuitively,
WOTS+ is based on a chaining function cj,k that applies a hash function i
times on a (randomly chosen, secret) input x. If the adversary is not able to
correctly guess one of the hidden values in the chain, a forged signature implies
that the adversary has found a collision somewhere in the chain, which can be
easily recovered by a honest signer and presented as proof-of-forgery. For this to
happen, the chaining function has to be compressing (so that points can have
multiple preimages), and behave like a random oracle (so that the probability
that a random evaluation of the function has many preimages is high). The latter
assumption is not new, as the current instantiation of SPHINCS+ implicitly relies
on it too1. However, the security analysis in [24] is not complete: what is proved
is that w.h.p. the adversary cannot guess the preimage of one of the chains
elements. This is not enough in a scenario where the adversary is unbounded:
as long as there is even one element in the chain with exactly one preimage,
the adversary can ﬁnd it (through brute-force) and produce the exact same
signature as the signer would have. Moreover, [24] lacks the FSS framework, and
as a result, does not introduce a trusted authority, nor prove security for the
recipient, meaning that their scheme does not include any guarantee in case the
signer is dishonest. Thus our analysis extends and improves [24].
1 The QROM assumption is necessary to construct practical, secure tweakable hash
functions from known hash functions, cf. [7, Section 6 and Appendix F]. Our FSS
modiﬁcation involves nontrivial changes to SPHINCS+ (e.g., by using compressing
hash functions of varying size), hindering a more “black-box” reduction. We based
our proof on QROM as in [7], anticipating that if a QROM-free proof for SPHINCS+
emerges, a similar technique will apply to FSS.SPHINCS.

That’s Not My Signature! Fail-Stop Signatures for a Post-quantum World
117
Dealing with PRFs: Fine-Grained Assumption. When implementing a
signature it is common to generate the random strings that compose the secret
key by evaluating a PRF over a counter. This way the signer has to store only
the seed of the PRF, which is much shorter than the collection of secret random
strings. This is done in XMSS and FORS too, as they require an exponential
number of secret keys. Observe that the hypertree is essentially public, as it
is completely revealed after a number of signatures have been generated. Thus,
information-theoretically the tree leaks the secret Seed: an unbounded adversary
could recover it completely and break our FSS requirements. The trivial solu-
tion to this challenge is to increase the security parameters. However, even this
solution is not always “trivial”: increasing the security parameters of a hash func-
tion requires years of cryptanalysis. In addition, this will signiﬁcantly increase
the length of the signature, which is a heavy price to pay. Ideally, an elegant
solution would achieve succinct secret key and signatures. Unfortunately, suc-
cinct secret keys cannot yield secure FSS: van Heijst et al. [47] show that the
size of the secret key has to be at least linear in the number of messages to be
signed. To work around this lower bound and achieve succinctness for both the
secret key and signatures, we extend the original FSS framework to allow for a
more “ﬁne-grained” adversarial model. We assume that the adversary is much
more powerful than the signer, to the point that it can forge the signature, but
it is still somewhat bounded: despite its ability to forge, some computational
tasks remain out of its reach. In particular, we assume that, if we increase only
the size of the seed Seed of the PRF, the adversary cannot break its security. In
practice, expanding the size of the seed Seed does not aﬀect the length of the
signature. To motivate our assumption, observe that the size of the key to the
PRF increases linearly, the run time of generic brute force attack increases expo-
nentially even when using quantum attacks such as the Grover algorithm [17].
Thus, in our FSS.XMSS and FSS.FORS constructions, we expand the seed of the
PRF by a factor cs, and we assume that an adversary that successfully returns
a forgery is still not able to break the pseudorandomness of the PRF. There is
still only one possible PRF’s seed Seed, but enumerating over all possible values
of Seed is much harder task to the powerful but bounded adversary. A more
detailed explanation can be found in Sect. 5.1. Observe that we do not need this
trick to hide the preimages of the nodes of the Merkle trees. By construction,
SPHINCS+ does not hide the (hyper)tree nodes, as the only undetectable way to
break the scheme is to ﬁnd all the correct preimages both for the tree and for
the chains. Thus, hiding the preimages of the ﬁrst element of the chains (and
of the leaves of FORS) is enough to prevent an undetectable forgery, even if the
adversary can reconstruct the whole tree.
The Hash-and-Sign Workaround. The ﬁnal step to construct FSS.SPHINCS
(and FSS.FORS) requires handling a generic forgery attack that applies to any
digital signature based on the Hash-and-Sign paradigm. Recall that in Hash-and-
Sign signatures, the message msg can be of arbitrary length and is ﬁrst hashed
into a ﬁxed-length digest that is then signed. Therefore, instead of targeting the
signature itself, an unbounded adversary can ﬁnd another message msg∗such

118
C. Boschini et al.
that HASH(msg∗) = HASH(msg), where msg is a previously signed message:
a honest signature for msg can then be re-used as a signature on msg∗, and no
proof of forgery can be generated. To the best of our knowledge, no previous FSS
solution addressed this speciﬁc problem. We propose two possible solutions. The
ﬁrst one is to rely on a log ﬁle storing all the signed messages, so that the signer
can produce the collision (msg, msg∗) for HASH as a proof of forgery in case
such an attack is performed. We remark that adding the log ﬁle does not make it
a stateful signature, as the log does not have to be secret, and it is only used when
generating a proof of forgery. As such, the loss/publication of the state does not
impact the original security of the signature (the standard unforgeability) against
PPT adversaries. In addition, usually when several agents/server want to sign
with the same secret key using a stateful signature, they need to keep syncing
their state for security to hold. This is not needed in our case, where the signers
have to just combine their logs when a proof of forgery has to be generated.
The second solution is based on a ﬁne-grained assumption on the adversary, and
uses multiple signatures on multiple unique hashes of the message to prevent the
possibility of generating a collision. More details on the attack can be found in
Sect. 6. Section 8 explains how to leverage our solutions to transform SPHINCS+
in FSS.SPHINCS.
3
Deﬁnition of FSS in the Non-interactive Model
A Fail-Stop Signature (FSS) is essentially a standard signature enhanced with a
“forgery detection” procedure: a trusted authority computes the public param-
eters so that, in case of a disputed signature, a PPT signer can convince the
authority that generating such a signature from the public parameters required
solving a task impossible for a bounded-time machine.
Deﬁnition 1. A Fail-Stop signature (FSS) in the non-interactive model consists
of six PPT algorithms (GenCh, GenKey, Sign, VrfySig, PoF, VrfyPoF) such that:
ch ←GenCh(1λr, 1ε):] the challenge-generation algorithm takes as input the secu-
rity parameters (1λr, 1ε), and outputs a challenge ch.
(sk, pk) ←GenKey(ch): the key-generation algorithm takes as input the challenge,
and outputs a (secret) signing key sk and a (public) veriﬁcation key pk.
σ ←Signsk(m): the signing algorithm takes as input a signing key sk and a
message m from the message space M, and returns a signature σ.
b ←VrfySigpk(m, σ): the veriﬁcation algorithm takes as input a public key pk, and
a message-signature pair (m, σ), and returns 1 if σ is valid, 0 otherwise.
π ←PoFsk((m, σ), ch): the proof of forgery algorithm takes as input the secret key
sk, a message m, a signature σ, and a challenge ch. If VrfySigpk(m, σm) = 0,
it aborts (i.e., it returns ⊥). Otherwise, it returns a proof π.
b ←VrfyPoF(ch, π): the proof of forgery veriﬁcation algorithm takes as input a
challenge ch, and a proof π. It outputs 1 if π is valid, and 0 otherwise.
We remark that a trusted party runs the GenCh algorithm, and the challenge
ch (the output of GenCh algorithm) is a public challenge (in many cases this
challenge is the public parameters of the scheme).

That’s Not My Signature! Fail-Stop Signatures for a Post-quantum World
119
Correctness is deﬁned analogously as for digital signatures, so we omit it here.
At a high-level, an FSS is secure if it is secure for recipient, that is, if it guar-
antees to a veriﬁer that a signer cannot repudiate its own signature, and secure
for the signer, i.e., it ensures that a signer can explain forgeries, even if gener-
ated by unbounded adversaries. However, security for the signer is meaningful
only if unbounded adversaries are the only threat to the scheme [14]. This seems
counter-intuitive, as the notion of unforgeability by a PPT adversary is weaker
than security for the signer: if a signature can be successfully forged by a PPT
adversary, then it can also be forged by an unbounded one. At the same time,
security for the signer only guarantees that forgeries can be disputed: without
unforgeability it could still happen that every PPT adversary could generate a
forgery, thus exposing the signer to the risk of having to constantly generate
proof of forgeries. Essentially, unforgeability gives the additional guarantee that
the need for a proof of forgery only arises in exceptional cases, i.e., when the
corrupted recipient is not a PPT machine, but an unbounded one.
In light of these observations, the security of an FSS has two security param-
eters: a “computational” one, λr, that bounds the probability that a PPT adver-
sary breaks security (be it a signer trying to disavow its own signature, or a
PPT malicious veriﬁer attempting an impersonation attack), and a “information-
theoretical” one, ε, that bounds the probability that an unbounded adversary
can produce a forgery for which no proof of forgery can be generated. To be
able to easily integrate our ﬁne-grained assumption on the adversary in the FSS
framework, we deﬁne security for the signer a bit diﬀerently than in the litera-
ture: we only require that the success probability of A is bounded by some ε,
without requiring it to be negligible.
Deﬁnition 2 (Security for the Signer). An FSS Σ is ε-secure for the signer
for 0 < ε ≤1 if, ﬁxed λr > 0, and for all unbounded adversary A it holds:
Pr[Expss
A,Σ(ε, λr) = 1] ≤ε
where the security experiment is Experiment 1 that returns 1 if the signer fails
to provide a valid proof of forgery. This probability is over the random coins of
GenKey, A and PoF.
Remark 1. Deﬁnition 2 only allows a signer to prove that a forgery has occurred.
However, in practice one might want to be able to prove that a speciﬁc signature
was forged, e.g., to avoid liabilities due to a forged signature on a contract. One
way to do it is for the signer to reveal the secret key alongside the disputed
signature, to show that by using this speciﬁc signature one can generate a proof
of forgery from the secret key. As a valid proof of forgery implies there is a
successful attack against the signature, publishing the secret key, for the honest
signer, is not an issue since in any case we must stop using the scheme. Every
secure FSS allows for this: in the rest of the paper we focus on the more basic
task of proving that a forgery has occurred.

120
C. Boschini et al.
Experiment 1: Expss
A,Σ(ε, λr)
1: ch
GenCh(1λr, 1ε)
2: (pk, sk)
GenKey(ch)
3: (m , σ )
AOsk(·)(ch, pk)
4: b1
VrfySigpk(m , σ )
5: π
PoFsk((m , σ ), ch)
6: b2
VrfyPoF(ch, π)
7: if m
/
then
8:
return b1
Q
¬ b2
9: else return 0
Experiment 2: Expunf
A,Σ(ε, λr)
1: ch
GenCh(1λr, 1ε)
2: (pk, sk)
GenKey(ch)
3: (m , σ )
AOsk(·)(ch, pk)
4: b
VrfySigpk(m , σ )
5: if (m
/ Q) then
6:
return b
7: else return 0
Fig. 1. Security experiments for security for the signer and unforgeability. Osk is the
signing oracle (which aborts if the maximum number of signatures that the scheme
allows is reached), and Q is the list of the queries it receives.
Deﬁnition 3 (Security for the Recipient). An FSS scheme is secure for the
recipient iﬀfor all λr > 0 and PPT adversary A there exists a negligible function
negl such that:
Pr

VrfyPoF(ch, π∗) = 1 | ch ←GenCh(1λr, 1ε),
π∗←A(ch)

< negl(λr) .
The probability is computed on the random coins of GenCh, and A.
Deﬁnition 4 (Unforgeability). An FSS signature scheme Σ is existentially
unforgeable under adaptive chosen-message attack, if for all λr > 0, for all 0 <
ε ≤1 and PPT adversaries A there is a negligible function negl such that:
Pr[Expunf
A,Σ(ε, λr) = 1] ≤negl(λr)
where the security experiment is Experiment 2.
Van Hejist et al. [47] identiﬁed the following necessary condition for a secure
FSS, which we decide to include as it constitutes an easy “rule of thumb” to check
whether a candidate FSS is trivially broken. Let H be the Shannon entropy.
Lemma 1 (Necessary Condition for security of FSS). Every FSS that
satisﬁes Deﬁnition 3 and Deﬁnition 2 for ε = negl(λ), also satisﬁes the following
property:
H(sk | pk, Hist) ≥(N + 1)(min{λr, λ} −1)
(1)
where Hist is the list of the ﬁrst N signatures generated by the honest signer
(cf. [47, Lemma 1]). If signing is deterministic, the requirement reduces to H(sk |
pk) ≥(N + 1)(min{λr, λ} −1) (cf. [47, Theorem 5]).
Lemma 1 is information-theoretical, in the sense that it is a necessary condi-
tion for security against an unbounded A. However, in practice it is not always
possible to guarantee such a high level of security while maintaining the usabil-
ity of a primitive. This can be seen for theoretical results too: we can show that

That’s Not My Signature! Fail-Stop Signatures for a Post-quantum World
121
Table 2. Summary of minimal assumptions for FSS (see the full version [9]). CRH
stands for collision-resistant hash functions, and CIH for collision-intractable hash func-
tions. Both are included as the relation between them is still an open question.
Minimal assumption References
Interactive key generation
(Type 1)
OWF
[14]+[19]
One private message key generation
(Type 2)
OWF
This work
Non-interactive key generation
(Type 3)
CRH
This work (implicit in [20])
CIH
[14]
FSSs are equivalent to signatures, but only assuming that Eq. (1) holds for the
signature too. Thus, we introduce a relaxation of Lemma 1, to allow for a more
ﬁne-grained security model. Instead of assuming that A is unbounded, we ﬁx
a third parameter λs, and assume that A is more powerful than PPT, but still
somewhat bounded in λs: it can break unforgeability for security parameter λr,
but it cannot extract information about the secret key from the public key and
signatures for a large enough secret key. This implies that when dealing with
ﬁne-grained assumptions on the adversary, we need to substitute Lemma 1 with
the following assumption.
Deﬁnition 5 (Fine-Grained Necessary Condition for security of FSS).
Let λr, λs, cs ∈N, 0 < ε ≤1. Let A be an adversary that breaks unforgeability
of the FSS with security parameter λr, and consider an FSS that is secure for
the recipient and (ε+negl(λs))-secure for the signer against A. For such an FSS
there exists a function f : {0, 1}cs·λr × {0, 1}λr →{0, 1}λr such that for ∀x:
| Pr[1 ←AOsk(pk, f(sk, x)) : sk
$←−{0, 1}cs·λr]+
−Pr[1 ←AOsk(pk, r) : r
$←−{0, 1}λr]| ≤negl(λs)
where Osk is the signing oracle.
The requirement on the security for the signer changes as well as the adver-
sary now has a probability ≤negl(λs) of recovering the secret key. In Sect. 5.1 we
show how to use this threat model in the case of XMSS, FORS, and SPHINCS+.
Interaction in GenKey and Minimal Assumptions for FSS. One could
deﬁne 3 types of FSS depending on the level of interaction in the key genera-
tion phase: many rounds (type 1), one-time (type 2), or none (type 3). Table 2
summarizes the minimal assumptions required for each of them. The black-box
construction of Type 2 FSS from OWF and of Type 3 FSS from CIH are an orig-
inal contributions of this work, and can be found in the full version [9]. While
FSS with (somewhat) interactive GenKey can be built from one-way functions
(OWF), the same cannot be said for FSS with non-interactive GenKey. The ques-
tion of whether one can build Type 3 FSS black-box from OWF remains, to the
best of our knowledge, open. Nevertheless, we shed more light in that direction,
by showing an equivalence result between FSS and (a subset of) standard digital

122
C. Boschini et al.
signature. The proof is an extension of a result by Pedersen and Pﬁtzman [33,
Thm 3.1]. We defer all technical details to the full version [9].
4
One-Time FSS (or from WOTS+ to an FSS)
In this section, we show how to build a one-time hash-based FSS. We ﬁrst present
the high-level idea of WOTS+, and then how to augment it to an FSS.
WOTS+ Structure. WOTS+ [21] is a hash-based one-time signature that is built
on the Winternitz signature [31]. The latter is preferable to Lamport signatures
[25], as it reduces the length of signatures and keys by signing the representa-
tion of a message m ∈{0, 1}h in base w, for some w ∈N (WOTS+ with w = 2
is essentially Lamport signatures). The construction relies on a chaining func-
tion ck, that is, a function that applies a second-preimage resistant, somewhat
pseudorandom one-way function f for w −1 times to each secret key x:
ck(x) =

x
if k = 0
f(ck−1(x))
otherwise
where f is a ﬁxed public function chosen at random from a family Fn := {f :
{0, 1}n →{0, 1}n}. The chaining function c takes as input some randomness
too, but we ignore it here for simplicity. The construction yields ℓ1 chains, where
ℓ1 = ⌈h/ log w⌉, i.e., one chain per component of the representation of m in base
w (denoted by [m]w from now on). Let mi be the ith component of [m]w: the ith
component of the signature would be cmi(ski) (Fig. 2).
1
2(
1)
ℓ
………..
2(
2)
1(
ℓ)
2(
ℓ)
1(
1)
1(
2)
ℓ
1
2
2
ℓ
ℓ(
1)
ℓ(
2)
ℓ(
ℓ)
Given a message 
=
1,
2, … ,
ℓ
Public key: ℓ
1 ,
ℓ
2 , … ,
ℓ
ℓ
The signature on 
∈[0,
−1] is: 
=
For example: ℓ= 3,
= 5,  
=
, 
=
, 
=
The signature:
,
=
=
=
Fig. 2. Key generation of WOTS+ using the chaining function ck(·), and a toy example
of the singing algorithm (where we leave out the checksum for the sake of simplicity).
Recall that a message m is composed by ℓelements m1, . . . , mℓ, where mi ∈[0, w −1].

That’s Not My Signature! Fail-Stop Signatures for a Post-quantum World
123
This is not enough to guarantee unforgeability though. For example, by
querying a signature on a message m such that [m]w = (0, . . . , 0) the adversary
gets all the secret keys (sk1, . . . , skℓ1), thus in this case an adversary can perfectly
impersonate the signer. To avoid this, the message digest that is signed includes
both the message m and a checksum C = ℓ2
i=1(w −1 −mi). This increases the
length of keys and signature by ℓ2 = ⌊logw(ℓ1(w −1))⌋+ 1, but now guarantees
unforgeability under some special assumptions on f. The algorithms of WOTS+
are formally described in the full version [9].
Augmenting WOTS+ to an FSS. Kiktenko et al. [24] observed that, if an
adversary A is not able to correctly guess one of the hidden values in the chain,
a forged signature implies that A has found a collision somewhere in the chain.
An honest signer could easily recover the collision using its secret key, and use
it as a proof that a more powerful machine generated the disputed signature:
the signer being a PPT machine could not have broken collision-resistance. A
necessary but not suﬃcient condition to prevent an unbounded adversary from
recovering a preimage in the chain is that an evaluation y = ck(ski) statisti-
cally hides ski (cf. Lemma 1), and that multiple choices of ski can correspond
to the same y. However, this is not true when WOTS+ is instantiated with a
standard hash function. In [24], the authors propose as workaround to change
the chaining function to a compressing one-way function, and assume it to be a
random oracle2 (so that the number of preimages is distributed in the same way
as for random functions). Inspired by this approach, our FSS.WOTS (formally
described in Protocol 1) relies on compressing hash functions.
On the Use of Compressing, Tweakable Hash Functions (THF). In
FSS.WOTS hash chains are built using compressing hash functions, so that even
if an adversary recovers a possible sk∗, there is still a chance that it is not the
preimage chosen by the honest signer. This technique increases the size of the sk
by a compression factor 3 c, but the size is still linear in w. Modeling the secu-
rity of this function requires some care. Usually, in the security experiment the
adversary has oracle access to the function, thus it can query the evaluation of
the function on any input x of its choice. This is not the case in the unforgeabil-
ity game of WOTS+ (and, analogously, of FSS.WOTS): here the adversary can
only choose the position in the chain that will be opened, not its input (which is
given by the iterative application of the function on the secret key). In [7], they
model the index of the chain as a tweak of the function: in the security game
the input of the function is uniformly chosen (and diﬀerent for every chain),
while the adversary can query the oracle on tweaks of its choice. To make sure
that the public key hides the secret key one has to assume undetectability of the
2 This assumption is already present in SPHINCS+. Indeed, in [7] the authors propose
three constructions of THF from hash functions to instantiate SPHINCS+. Among
these, the only one proved secure in the standard model (i.e., [7, Construction 5]) is
not used in practice, as it would imply exponentially-sized public parameters. The
other two rely on the QROM, thus SPHINCS+ implicitly assumes it too.
3 One can assume that the description of the function is public, and the signer only
has to publish the parameters of the function it has selected.

124
C. Boschini et al.
Protocol 1: FSS.WOTS
Let [m]w denote the representation of m base w, and M = {0, 1}l be the message space.
Let Th = {Thi : P × T × {0, 1}n+c·(w−i) →{0, 1}n+c·(w−i−1) for i = 1, . . . , w −1} be a family of THF.
The public parameters ch are implicitly given as input to all the algorithms (excluding GenCh).
GenCh(1λr, 1λs) :
1: n ←max{λr, λs}
2: Choose w.
3: ℓ1 ←⌈
l
log w⌉
4: ℓ2 ←⌊log(ℓ1(w−1))
log w
⌋+ 1
5: ℓ←ℓ1 + ℓ2
6: Set c such that 2ℓ(w −1) exp(−2c) ≤2−λs
7: Seed
$←−{0, 1}n
8: return ch = (λr, λsw, ℓ1, ℓ2, c, Seed)
GenKey(ch) :
1: Parse ch = (λr, λsw, ℓ1, ℓ2, c, Seed)
2: ℓ←ℓ1 + ℓ2
3: for i = 1, . . . , ℓdo
4:
ski
$←−{0, 1}n+c(w−1)
5:
pki ←c0,w−1(ski, i, Seed)
6: sk ←(sk1, . . . , skℓ)
7: pk ←(Seed, pk1, . . . , pkℓ)
8: return (pk, sk).
Signsk(m) :
1: ℓ←ℓ1 + ℓ2
2: (m1, . . . , mℓ1) ←[m]w, mi ∈[0, w −1].
3: C ←ℓ1
i=1(w −1 −mi) // checksum
4: (c1, . . . , cℓ2) ←[C]w, ci′ ∈[0, w −1]
5: (b1, . . . , bℓ) ←(m1, . . . mℓ1, c1, . . . , cℓ2)
6: for i = 1, . . . , ℓdo
7:
Compute σi = c0,bi(ski, i, Seed)
8: σ ←(σ1, . . . , σℓ)
9: return σ.
VrfySigpk(m, σ) :
1: (σ1, . . . , σℓ) ←σ
2: (m1, . . . , mℓ1) ←[m]w, mi ∈[0, w −1].
3: C ←ℓ1
i=1(w −1 −mi) // checksum
4: (c1, . . . , cℓ2) ←[C]w, ci′ ∈[0, w −1]
5: (b1, . . . , bℓ) ←(m1, . . . mℓ1, c1, . . . , cℓ2)
6: for i = 1, . . . , ℓdo
7:
σ′
i = cbi,w−1−bi(σi, i, Seed)
8: if pki = σ′
i, ∀i ∈[1, w −1] then
9:
return 1.
10: else return 0.
PoFsk((m, σ), ch) :
1: (σ1, . . . , σℓ) ←σ
2: if 0 ←VrfySigpk(m, σ) then return ⊥
3: if
∃i, j ∈[0, w −1]
:
c0,bi+j(ski, i, Seed) ̸=
cbi,j(σi, i, Seed) then
4:
π ←(bi, i, j, ski, σi)
5:
return π
6: else return ⊥.
VrfyPoF(ch, π) :
1: if (c0,w−1(ski, i, Seed) = cbi,w−1−bi(σi, i, Seed)) ∧
(c0,bi+j(ski, i, Seed) ̸= cbi,j(σi, i, Seed)) then
2:
return 1
3: else return 0
THF (SM-UD security): informally it means that Th(p, t, x) is computationally
indistinguishable from x, where x is uniformly sampled. Due to this “pseudoran-
domness”, a successful forgery σ′ must contain at least one intermediate value x
of a chain whose preimage is not the one computed during key generation. Secu-
rity requires second-preimage resistance of the THF (SM-PRE security), that is,
the adversary not be able to ﬁnd a second preimage for a target from the set
of its queries Q given an oracle access to Th(p, ·, x) for random x, and collision
resistance (SM-TCR security), i.e., that the adversary cannot ﬁnd a collision for
a target from the set of its queries Q given oracle access to Th(p, ·, ·). Deﬁnitions
of THF and their security are recalled in the full version [9].
Chaining Function. Let w ∈N a base, ℓthe total number of chains, and n the
security parameter (for the FSS constructions, n = λr). Let
Th = {Thi : P × T × {0, 1}n+c·(w−i) →{0, 1}n+c·(w−i−1) for i = 1, . . . , w −1}

That’s Not My Signature! Fail-Stop Signatures for a Post-quantum World
125
be a family of tweakable hash functions with parameter set P := {0, 1}n and
tweaks4 T = {0, 1}256. The chaining function of FSS.WOTS takes as inputs an
iteration counter k ∈{0, . . . , w −1}, a start index j ∈{0, . . . , w −1}, a chain
index i ∈{1, . . . , w −1}, a message x ∈{0, 1}n+c·(w−j−1) (which length varies
due to the ongoing compression in the chain), and a public parameter Seed and
behaves as follows:
cj,k(x, i, Seed) =

x
if k = 0
Thj+k(Seed, Ti,j+k−1, cj,k−1(x, i, Seed))
if k > 0
Observe that j and k mean that the chaining function assumes that the input
x is the value of the chain after j iterations, and starts from computing Thj+1
on the input x, iterating for k times (until Thj+k). Tweaks are deﬁned as the
output of a (deterministic) encoding function T(typ, adrs) = Ta,b that associates
a distinct tweak Ta,b with the bth function call in the ath chain generated with the
THF Thb(Seed, ·, ·). The value of typ and adrs are deterministically generated
to uniquely identify the position of the call to Th in the SPHINCS+ structure:
typ has diﬀerent values depending on what the THF is used for, and adrs is the
“address” of the point where Th is called. For the purpose of the proofs, we just
need to know that the encoding function T is injective. We refer the reader to [3,
Section 2.7.3] for a formal deﬁnition.
Due to its use in SPHINCS+, it is enough to prove non-adaptive security of
FSS.WOTS, both for unforgeability and for security for the signer.
Lemma 2 (Non-Adaptive Unforgeability). If Th is a family of THF that
is SM-UD secure, non-adaptive SM-TCR secure, and SM-PRE secure, then
FSS.WOTS is unforgeable under non-adaptive CMA.
The proof is similar to [23, Theorem 1], thus we defer it to the full version [9].
On the Adversarial Model. Relying on the FSS framework allows our model
of the adversary (and our security analysis) to be more precise than the analysis
by Kiktenko et al. [24]. In the FSS framework only extremely powerful adver-
saries can forge, as the unforgeability property stops the attempt of PPT ones.
Kiktenko et al. [24] implicitly assumed that the adversary cannot on average
ﬁnd the right preimage of a point in the chain. However, we assume that hav-
ing an unbounded adversary means that A can enumerate all preimages of a
given point: assuming that ﬁnding a preimage is a probabilistic algorithm, the
adversary can simply repeat it a logarithmic number of times to ﬁnd all of the
preimages. This can be done for all the points in all of the chains. So, if there
is even a single point in one chain with only one preimage, the adversary can
ﬁnd it and break the FSS. Thus, we need to make sure that the probability
that every point in every chain has only a single preimage is negligible, not
just the expected probability of choosing the correct preimage over all of the
points. Lemma 3 shows our analysis. Observe that even though the adversary
4 This is the speciﬁc choice for SPHINCS+. In general, we need |T | ≥wℓ.

126
C. Boschini et al.
can enumerate all the preimages in the chains, it cannot win with overwhelming
probability as long as the output of Th does not leak information about the
preimage used by the signer.
Lemma 3 (implicit in [24, Lemma 1]). Let f : {0, 1}n+δ →{0, 1}n, n ≫1,
δ > 0 be chosen uniformly at random from the set of all functions from {0, 1}n+δ
to {0, 1}n. Then, the probability that a point y in the image has strictly more
than one preimage can be bounded as
Pr[∃S ⊆{0, 1}n+δ, |S| > 1 : f(x) = y ∀x ∈S] ≥1 −2 exp(−2δ) .
The proof is similar to [24], and can be found in the full version [9].
To use Lemma 3 in our analysis we still need the QROM assumption to
ensure that the output of a tweakable hash function on a randomly sampled
input is indistinguishable from random, even by a powerful adversary.
Theorem 2 (Security for the Signer). If Th is a family of compressing
THF then there exist a constant value for the compression factor c such that
FSS.WOTS is ε-secure for the signer in the QROM for ε = 1/2.
Proof. Let A be an adversary in Experiment 1. Then its success probability is
Pr[Expss
A,Σ(λs, λr) = 1] = Pr[σ∗= σ′ | σ′ ←Signsk(m∗)]
(2)
i.e., the adversary wins if it has guessed correctly all the ℓpreimages in σ∗. As
we assume the adversary to be unbounded, if there is any unopened point in any
chain that has exactly one preimage, then A is always successful (as inverting
the hash on one chain is enough to generate a forgery). Lemma 3 combined with
the observation that the outputs of c0,j(ski, i, Seed) are uniformly random and
independent (by the QROM assumption on the construction of the THF from
hash functions) yields that this happens with probability
Pr[∃i ∈{1, . . . , ℓ}, j ∈{1, . . . , w −1} | c0,j(ski, i, Seed) has only one preimage]
≤ℓ(w −1)2 exp(−2c)
(3)
which for n = l = 128 and w = 16 (the usual choice for SPHINCS+) is already less
than 2−81 for c = 6. Combining (2) and (3) yields that A looses with probability
Pr[Expss
A,Σ(λs, λr) = 0] =
≥

1 −ℓ(w −1)
2n
2n −1 exp(−2c)

· Pr[A wrongly guesses at least once]
≥(1 −ℓ(w −1)2 exp(−2c)) · 1
2 ≈1
2 −negl(λs)
that is, the signer can generate a proof of forgery essentially 50% of the times. The
probability of a correct guess by A follows observing that the THF behaves as a
QROM, thus it does not leak any information about the input. Given that each
evaluation A sees has multiple preimages with overwhelming probability, the

That’s Not My Signature! Fail-Stop Signatures for a Post-quantum World
127
adversary cannot win with probability much larger than 1/2. Analogously, if c is
chosen so that the probability of strictly more than 2 preimages is overwhelming,
then the adversary’s winning probability becomes 1/3 + negl(λs).
⊓⊔
Second Preimage vs. Collisions. Observe that unforgeability requires SM-PRE
security, that is, something analogous to second preimage resistance, but proving
a forgery just requires breaking SM-TCR security, that is, a property similar to
collision-resistance. This is because the latter is a weaker property implied by the
former:aforgerybreakingSM-PREsecurityimpliesthatSM-TCRsecurityisbroken
too, but the vice versa does not hold.
Theorem 3 (Security for the Recipient). If Th is a family of adaptively
SM-TCR secure THF, then FSS.WOTS is secure for the recipient.
Proof (sketch). We sketch the proof in the following. A formal reduction can be
obtained through a series of hybrid games analogously to the proof of Lemma 2.
Assume that there exists a malicious PPT signer A that break the security for
the recipient of FSS.WOTS with probability ε. We show that one can construct
a PPT algorithm B that breaks the adaptive SM-TCR security of an element of
the family Th. At the beginning of the adaptive SM-TCR experiment, B receives
the public parameter Seed from the challenger. From these, it computes the rest
of ch , and runs A on ch. Upon receiving π∗= (b,i, j, ski, σi) from A, B ﬁnds
k ∈[j + 1, w −1] for which it holds c0,bi+k(ski, i, Seed) ̸= cbi,k(σi, i, Seed) and
c0,bi+k+1(ski, i, Seed) = cbi,k+1(σi, i, Seed)). Then it computes M1 = c0,bi+k(ski,
i, Seed) and M2 = cbi,k(σi, i, Seed)), the index ¯i = bi + k + 1, and the tweak
T = Ti,¯i, and returns (M1, M2,¯i, T) to the game. As B perfectly simulates the
authority, its success probability is equal to the success probability of A in
breaking security for the recipient.
⊓⊔
5
Augmenting XMSS to an FSS
Informally, XMSS is a set of N WOTS+ instances whose public keys are com-
pressed using a Merkle tree. Each signature includes a WOTS+ signature and
an authentication path that allows the veriﬁer to recompute the root. As each
WOTS+ key pair can only be used once, the state of the XMSS scheme needs
keep track of the used pair, thus it is stateful5. To reduce the total size of the
private key (we need for every WOTS+ signature ℓindependent secret keys), all
unique private keys used in the WOTS+ signatures are generated from a single
private Seedsk using a PRF, so the ith secret key of the jth leaf (a WOTS+ sig-
nature) is skj
i = PRF(Seedsk, i, j). We augment XMSS to an FSS scheme we call
FSS.XMSS, which is essentially XMSS where we replace WOTS+ with our new
FSS.WOTS and a slightly larger private Seedsk is used.
5 SPHINCS+ only uses XMSS to sign predetermined roots, while the actual message
is signed with FORS. Hence, neither SPHINCS+ nor FSS.SPHINCS are stateful.

128
C. Boschini et al.
5.1
Fine-Grained Assumption on Adversary Capabilities
Our FSS.WOTS variant of the WOTS+ signature assumes an unbounded adver-
sary that is able to break the one-wayness property of the hash function and ﬁnd
all possible preimages for some target value y. We show that as long as w.h.p.
all hash values in all the chains in the WOTS+ signature have more than one
preimage, the honest signer can prove with some constant (non-zero) probability
that the forged signature is indeed a forgery even assuming that the adversary is
unbounded. Our proof relies on the fact that due to the compression parameter,
there are many diﬀerent private keys that will result in the same signature and
public key. This means that even if an adversary can recover all possible private
keys that are consistent with the signature, it will not be able to know which
is the correct one. However, this is not the case for signature schemes such as
XMSS. Each XMSS signature includes an exponential number of WOTS+ signa-
tures. Each WOTS+ signature requires its own unique set of private keys. Not to
store an exponential size secret, the private keys used as the start of each chain
are computed using a PRF and a small private key. This means that unless we
allow an exponentially large private key (which is not practical), even a small
fraction of the total supported number of signatures of the XMSS scheme will
result in just a single possible private key that is consistent with the observed
signatures. Thus an unbounded adversary can recover the correct private key
and use it to forge signatures. In such a scenario the honest signer will not be
able to prove a signature was forged.
Fortunately, all is not lost! Instead of assuming a completely unbounded
adversary, we can use the more ﬁne-grained but natural assumption of Deﬁni-
tion 5. We assume a very powerful (exponential-time) adversary able to break
the security assumptions of the XMSS scheme with security parameter λr. Under
this assumption, if XMSS uses a PRF with a key of size λr to generate the pri-
vate keys, we assume that the attacker can recover the single possible Seedsk after
seeing enough outputs and perfectly impersonate a honest signer. However, we
assume that if we increase the size of the PRF’s key even by a small constant
factor cs > 1, we make such a key recovery attack exponentially harder. Follow-
ing Deﬁnition 5 with our PRF as the function f, we assume that with a when
using a secret key of size cs · λr our adversary is unable to distinguish between
the output of the PRF and random samples.
To motivate our assumption, consider the generic classical brute force attack,
with an attacker that runs in time O(2λr) and can enumerate all possible keys
and ﬁnd the correct one. However, when we increase the key size to cs · λr, the
attacker is required to run in time O(2cs·λr). Even for a quantum adversary, the
runtime of the generic attack using Grover algorithm [17] will increase exponen-
tially from O(2
λr
2 ) to O(2
cs·λr
2
).6 To conclude, we assume a powerful adversary,
able to break at least one of the security assumptions of the XMSS scheme with
non-negligible property for security parameter λr but that has only a negligible
6 Note that in a real-world instantiation of the PRF the function’s state size must be
large enough to accommodate the entire Seedsk to avoid analogous exploits to [34].

That’s Not My Signature! Fail-Stop Signatures for a Post-quantum World
129
probability of breaking the security of our PRF when using a larger security
parameter cs · λr; cs is treated as third security parameter, alongside λr and λs.
5.2
Construction of FSS.XMSS
Let H = {Hi}i be a family of (compressing) THF, where Hi : P×T ×{0, 1}λr·i →
{0, 1}λr. Analogously to XMSS, FSS.XMSS allows to sign N = 2h messages of l
bits by combining N parallel instantiations of FSS.WOTS in a binary tree. Such
tree is constructed using the THF H := H2. An internal state allows the signer
to keep track of which keys have been already used.
FSS.WOTS with Public Key Compression. As the public key pk of
FSS.WOTS has a size linear in the length of the messages, in XMSS and
FSS.XMSS it is compressed using a THF F := Hℓinto a n-bits long string
lf. The {lfi}i constitutes the leaves of the binary tree. The secret keys of the var-
ious FSS.WOTS instances are generated using the PRF PRF1 : {0, 1}csλr × T →
{0, 1}λr+c(w−1) from a secret seed Seedsk and from the address adrs, and the
chains are generated from the same seed Seedpk. We abuse the notation and give
(Seedsk, Seed,pk , adrs) as input to the key generation of FSS.WOTS. Analogously,
the FSS.WOTS veriﬁcation now also checks that the tops of the chains obtained
from the signature hash to the correct value lfi. Diﬀerent public keys hashing to
the same leaf constitute a valid proof of forgery for this modiﬁed FSS.WOTS.
As XMSS is a stateful signature, the syntax of the FSS is adapted accordingly.
The proof of forgery can be derived either from a collision on the tree, or as in
FSS.WOTS, thus π contains a bit b that speciﬁes which case it is.
Lemma 4 (Non-adaptive Unforgeability). If FSS.WOTS is an unforgeable
FSS, PRF1 is a PRF, and H and F are SM-TCR secure THFs, then FSS.XMSS
is unforgeable under non-adaptive CMA.
Proof (sketch). Consider the following sequence of hybrid games:
– H1 : this is the non-adaptive unforgeability experiment for FSS.XMSS.
– H2 : Same as H1, but the sk’s are random strings instead of output by PRF1.
– H3 : Same as H2, but the winning condition now excludes cases when the
forgery contains a collision on the tree.
– H4 : Same as H3, but the winning condition now excludes cases when the
forgery contains a collision on a leaf.
Clearly, distinguishing H1 from H2 requires distinguishing outputs of the PRF
from random. To distinguish H2 from H3 (resp., H3 from H4), the adversary has
to return a collision on the tree (resp., on a leaf). This happens only if A returns
a forgery σ∗where the tree path is computed from a diﬀerent leaf than what
was used to generate the root (resp., where the leaf is obtained hashing diﬀerent
values than the FSS.WOTS key pki). This means that the FSS.WOTS signature
in σ∗has to verify w.r.t. a key pk that was not among the ones generated by the
challenger. Hence a successful distinguisher can be used to break the SM-TCR

130
C. Boschini et al.
security of H (resp., of F). Finally, to win H4 Adv has only one option: forging
a signature using one of the FSS.WOTS keys generated by the challenger. Thus
winning H4 is essentially equivalent to breaking the unforgeability of FSS.WOTS.
A tighter proof can be obtained not relying on the unforgeability of FSS.WOTS
as a black-box, but by reducing to the security of Th following the same steps
as in the proof of Lemma 2. The only diﬀerence is that now the security of Th
has to hold for a larger number of queries (polynomial in λs).
Lemma 5 (Security for the Signer). If FSS.WOTS is secure for the signer,
then FSS.XMSS is 1/2-secure for the signer against an adversary A that satisﬁes
Deﬁnition 5.
Proof. Consider the following hybrid games sequence:
– H1 : this is Experiment 1 for FSS.XMSS.
– H2 : Same as H1, but the sk’s are random strings instead of output by PRF1.
– H3 : Same as H2, but the winning condition now excludes cases when the
forgery contains a collision on the tree.
– H4 : Same as H3, but the winning condition now excludes cases when the
forgery contains a collision on a leaf.
Distinguishing H1 from H2 requires to distinguish the output of the PRF from
uniformly sampled strings, which is not possible in polynomial-time under our
ﬁne-grained assumption. Now, observe that the Merkle tree is generated with
a public seed and a THF that does not guarantee the existence of more than
one preimage per point. Thus, as the adversary runs in exponential time, A is
able to reconstruct the whole tree. Hence, A has the same success probability
in both H2 and H3. An analogous reasoning holds for F, thus A has the same
success probability also in H4. Finally, the proof in case of H4 is the same as for
FSS.WOTS, but the probability decreases by a factor N as the more instances of
FSS.WOTS, the higher the probability of one of them having only one preimage.
In details, given N·ℓ(w−1) points chosen at random, the probability of all having
more than one preimage is greater than 1 −2N · ℓ(w −1) exp(−2c). Thus, the
probability that a honest signer can generate a proof of forgery is greater than
(1 −2Nℓ(w −1) exp(−2c)) · 1
2 that is approximately 1
2 −negl(λs) analogously to
the FSS.WOTS case, as in practice h is set to be smaller than 9, in which case
the probability is greater than 1/2 −2−73 for c = 6.
Lemma 6 (Security for the Recipient). If FSS.WOTS is secure for the recip-
ient, and H and F are SM-TCR secure THFs, then FSS.XMSS is secure for the
recipient.
Proof (sketch). The proof follows the same intuition of the proof of Lemma 4,
in that a successful adversary A has to return either a collision for H or F, or
a valid proof of forgery for FSS.WOTS for a honestly generated signature. As
such, as long as both the building blocks are secure, FSS.XMSS is secure for the
recipient.

That’s Not My Signature! Fail-Stop Signatures for a Post-quantum World
131
5.3
Multiple Instances of FSS.XMSS: The Hypertree
As we have seen, FSS.XMSS can be used to sign a limited amount of messages.
The technique used in SPHINCS+ to extend it to larger message spaces is hyper-
trees: small-depth FSS.XMSS trees connected to one another by FSS.WOTS sig-
natures. In details, during key generation the signer has to generate a single
FSS.XMSS tree. To expand its signing capabilities, whenever signing a message
it can generate a new FSS.XMSS tree, and connect it to the previous one by sign-
ing the new root with one of the pk’s of FSS.WOTS contained in the leaves of the
original tree. This can be iterated for many layers, depending on the length of
the message; the tree in the last layer is used to sign the message as in standard
FSS.XMSS. Analogously to what happens in SPHINCS+, security follows from
the security of the building blocks: a forgery on the hypertree yields a forgery on
one of the FSS.WOTS signatures. Observe that this is still a stateful signature!
To get rid of the state SPHINCS+ relies on the Hash-and-Sign paradigm, which
turns out to be quite problematic in the FSS framework (cf. Sect. 6).
6
Augmenting Hash-and-Sign Schemes to an FSS
To support arbitrary size messages, practical digital signature schemes usually
follow the Hash-and-Sign paradigm. In Hash-and-Sign, the message m ∈{0, 1}∗
is ﬁrst hashed into a ﬁxed size digest d = HASH(m), which is signed as
σ = SIGNsk(d) = SIGNsk(HASH(m)). It is advisable for the signer to add
a random preﬁx to the message before computing HASH(R||m), limiting even
an adversary that can choose signed messages to ﬁnding a second preimage to
break the scheme instead of a collision.
When trying to augment any Hash-and-Sign based signature to an FSS, we
need to address the following generic forgery attack on the initial HASH phase.
Our adversary can try to ﬁnd a new message m∗and randomness R∗such that
HASH(R∗||m∗) = HASH(R||m), where m is any of the messages previously
signed by the honest signer, and R is the randomness used. As the digest of
both R||m and R∗||m∗is the same, σ will also be a valid signature for m∗.
Assuming that the size of the digest is approximately the security parameter λ
used by the digital signature, we can assume that an adversary that is able to
forge the digital signature can also ﬁnd such values R∗and m∗. We note that in
some signature schemes such as FORS and SPHINCS+, the adversary can also
target some “interleaved” combination of the previously signed hash values. The
problem is called Interleaved Target Subset Resilience (ITSR) [7].
Augmenting Hash-and-Sign signatures to FSS is a very challenging task. We
now present two possible solutions, and leave improving them as future work.
Saving a Log File: One possible solution is for the honest signer to keep
a log of all previously signed messages. In this case, when a forged signature
(R∗, m∗, σ) is presented to the signer, it can search the corresponding honest sig-
nature (R, m, σ) in the log ﬁle and show that HASH(R∗||m∗) = HASH(R||m)
as a proof of forgery. However, the use of a log ﬁle raises the following question:

132
C. Boschini et al.
Doesn’t using a log ﬁle means that the FSS augmentation results in a
state-full signature scheme?
For that, the answer is no. In state-full signature scheme such as XMSS, the
state must be kept online, and if is lost, it can lead to a complete compromise of
the scheme. Moreover, if multiple servers share the same secret key, they must
also share exact up-to-date replicas of the state. However, in our case, the log
can be stored in an oﬄine storage, and the multiple servers sharing the same
secret key can store their logs separately without online synchronization. Most
importantly, if any part of the log is lost, the only result is that the signer will
not be able to prove forgeries targeting the lost messages. As the main goal of
our FSS augmentation is to stop mass exploitation of a forgery attack, as long
as enough log ﬁles are stored, we will still be able to detect some forgery attacks
and show that the scheme is now insecure.
We note that already today, we have relevant use cases where a log of all
signatures is kept. For example, Certiﬁcate Authority (CA) servers are trusted
parties that issue digital certiﬁcates to authenticate the identities of individu-
als, organizations, or devices for secure communication over a network or the
internet. For audit purposes, such CAs usually log all of the certiﬁcates they
sign. Widely supported standards such as Certiﬁcate Transparency [26] already
provide an open framework for publicly logging and monitoring the issuance of
digital certiﬁcates, oﬀering a comprehensive log ﬁle of all signed certiﬁcates for
improved transparency and security. As mentioned above, for some signature
schemes such as FORS and SPHINCS+, the adversary can target some “inter-
leaved” combination of the previously signed digest values. The log ﬁle can also
be used to prove forgery in this case, providing the set of honest messages that
were “interleaved” to match the target forged digest. In case we do not want
to log the signed message (as it might contain sensitive information or due to
size constraints), we can slightly modify the hash phase of the signing process
such that we will only need to store an intermediate randomized digest value of
the message. Based on our ﬁne-grained assumption, we will use an intermediate
strong hash function HASH′ : {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}cs·λr, this hash function as a
larger digest and we assume that even our strong adversary can’t break it. Our
modiﬁed signing process will be σ = SIGNsk(HASH(HASH′(R||M))). In our
log ﬁle we will only need to store d′ = HASH′(R||M). Note that we assume
that the adversary cannot ﬁnd a collision on d′, but it can ﬁnd a collision on
d = HASH(HASH′(R||M)).
cs Parallel Signatures: To avoid the log ﬁle requirement, we propose another
solution that is based on the ﬁne-grained assumption of the adversary capabil-
ities presented in Sect. 5.1. Recall that we assume that our (exponential-time)
adversary can break the security assumptions of our scheme (including ITSR) for
some security parameter λ. However, we assume this adversary is not powerful
enough to break our security assumption of a larger security parameter cs · λ.
To use this assumption, our FSS version will now include cs signatures (or ⌈cs⌉
if cs /∈Z). We use a variant of the method used in [4] to calculate cs separate

That’s Not My Signature! Fail-Stop Signatures for a Post-quantum World
133
digests and then sign them:
di = HASH(i||m)
σi = SIGN(d1)
σF SS = σ1||σ2|| . . . ||σcs
Similar to the analysis in Sect. 5.1, ﬁnding a message m∗such that all its cs
digests has been signed before becomes exponentially harder as cs increases.
The proposed solution increases the running time and size of the signature
by a factor of cs. This raises the following question:
Why can’t we just use the original signatures scheme with larger parameters?
As we mentioned above, increasing the security parameter of original scheme
by the same factor of cs can lead to a much larger increase in size. Recall that
increasing the security parameter for SPHINCS+ by a factor of 2 from 128 to 256
bits results in a size increase by a factor of 3.8 for the small size variant. This
means that our solution can still result in a much smaller signature size.
7
Augmenting FORS to an FSS
FORS is the ﬁnal building block needed for SPHINCS+. In itself, it is very simple:
the public key is the hash G := Hk (deﬁned in Sect. 5.2) of the roots of k trees
of depth d constructed using H := H2, whose leaves are obtained computing a
THF T := Thw−1 (from the family Th of compressing THF described in Sect. 4)
on the secret keys. The secret keys are output by a PRF PRF2 evaluated on a
secret seed and on its address in the tree. Signing a message requires splitting it
into k blocks of d bits, and to interpret the ith block as the address of a leaf in
the ith tree: a signature on the ith block is the preimage of such a leaf, and its
authentication path. The signature on the full message is the collection of all the
signatures on the blocks. Finally, to avoid forgeries through recombination one
needs to bind all the paths together, hence the digest to be signed is obtained as
the hash of the messages (with the public key, the seed of T, and some message
dependent randomness computed with a PRF PRFmsg) through a function Hmsg :
{0, 1}λr × {0, 1}λr × P × M →{0, 1}dk. As the structure of FORS is extremely
similar to XMSS, the fail-stop mechanism is integrated analogously: leaves are
generated using a (strongly) compressing THF so that the adversary cannot
recover the same preimages used by the signer (with constant probability). Trees
are generated like in FSS.XMSS, thus we assume that a powerful adversary can
reconstruct the leaves from the public information. The formal description of
the protocol can be found in the full version [9].
On Hash-and-Sign, Fine-Grained Assumptions, and Adaptivity. As
FSS.FORS is a Hash-and-Sign style signature, its security requires either assum-
ing ITSR security7 of Hmsg, or using one of the workarounds presented in Sect. 6.
7 ITSR security requires that an adversary cannot ﬁnd a second preimage for a target
among the answers to its queries, when given an oracle access to a keyed hash
function that samples a fresh random key for each query [7].

134
C. Boschini et al.
For the sake of clarity we assume here that the adversary is not powerful enough
to break ITSR, and deal with the other cases separately (cf. Sect. 6). Observe
that assuming ITSR and adaptive SM-TCR allows to prove adaptive unforgeabil-
ity without complexity leveraging (analogously to SPHINCS+).
Lemma 7 (Security of FSS.FORS).
– If T, G, and H are adaptive SM-TCR secure compressing THFs, PRF2
and PRFmsg are PRFs, and Hmsg is a ITSR secure compressing THF, then
FSS.FORS is unforgeable under adaptive CMA.
– Assume that A cannot break the ITSR security of Hmsg nor invert PRF2 and
PRFmsg. If T is a compressing THF, then FSS.FORS is secure for signer
against an adversary A with running time at most 2csλs/2 (in the QROM).
– If T, G, H are SM-TCR secure THFs, FSS.FORS is secure for the recipient.
Proof (Sketch). The unforgeability proof follows closely the reduction in [23,
Theorem 3]. Hence, we only sketch the hybrid games:
H1: this is the adaptive uf −cma experiment.
H2: Same as H1, but the sk’s are random strings instead of output by PRF2.
H3: Same as H2, but the output of PRFmsg is replaced with random strings.
H4: Same as H3, but now the adversary looses if the signature is obtained
combining k authentication paths that were already output by the signer
during the querying phase.
H5: Same as H4, but now A looses if a FORS leaf in the forgery is diﬀerent from
the leaf that the signer would generate for that place.
Distinguishing H1 and H2 (resp., H2 and H3) requires breaking the pseudoran-
domness of PRF2 (resp., PRFmsg). Distinguishing H3 from H4 requires breaking
the ITSR property of Hmsg, and the proof is analogous to the proof of [7, Claim
21]). Distinguishing H4 from H5 requires breaking the SM-TCR security of H.
Finally, winning H5 requires breaking the SM-TCR security of either T or G.
Security for the signer and the receiver can be proved analogously to
FSS.XMSS.
8
Augmenting SPHINCS+ to an FSS
Augmenting SPHINCS+ to an FSS just requires keeping its structure as is, and
replacing XMSS by FSS.XMSS, FORS by FSS.FORS. We include a high level
description of signing for those who are not familiar with SPHINCS+. Essentially,
(the hash of) a message is interpreted as the address idx of a leaf in the hypertree,
and a message digest MD. The FSS.WOTS pk contained in such leaf is used to
sign an FSS.FORS public key, which in turn is used to sign MD. A signature on
the message includes then the randomness used in Hmsg, the authentication path
and FSS.WOTS signatures needed to go from the public root to the FSS.FORS
key, and the FSS.FORS signature on MD. Diﬀerences arise if one does not want
to use the ﬁne-grained assumption that an adversary cannot break ITSR security.

That’s Not My Signature! Fail-Stop Signatures for a Post-quantum World
135
In such a case one has to use one of our generic augmentation of Hash-and-Sign
to an FSS (cf. Sect. 6). Let PRF be the PRF used to generate the secret keys of
FSS.WOTS and FSS.FORS.
Lemma 8 (Security of FSS.SPHINCS)
– If Th = {Thi}i is a family of THFs that is SM-UD, SM-TCR, and SM-PRE
secure, PRF, PRFmsg are PRFs, H = {Hi}i is a family of SM-TCR secure
THFs, and Hmsg is a ITSR secure compressing THF, then FSS.SPHINCS is
unforgeable under adaptive CMA.
– Assume that A cannot break the ITSR security of Hmsg nor invert PRF and
PRFmsg. If Th and H are families of compressing THF, then FSS.SPHINCS
is secure for signer against an adversary A with running time at most 2csλs/2
(in the QROM).
– If Th and H are families of SM-TCR secure THFs, then FSS.SPHINCS is
secure for the recipient.
Proving unforgeability can be done with the same reduction as in the NIST
speciﬁcations (see the full version [9]). Security for the signer and for the receiver
can be proved analogously to what done for FSS.XMSS.
8.1
Parameters Choice for FSS.SPHINCS
We now discuss the cost of the fail-stop mechanism, taking the small 128-bits
security variant of SPHINCS+ (SPHINCS+-128 s) as our use case and computing
the cost of augmenting it into an FSS.SPHINCS with 128-bit security, and with
256-bit security for the signer. Table 1 summarizes the results. Our augmentation
does not aﬀect the size of the public key, that remains 256 bits (128-bits seed and
the 128-bits Merkle tree root). The secret key size increases multiplicatively by
the expansion factor cs. To get 256 bits of security for the PRF, it is enough to
set cs = 256/λr = 2. The size of the secret key is then |PK|+2·cs ·λr = 768 bits
instead of the 512 bits of SPHINCS+-128 s (but smaller than the secret key of
SPHINCS+-256 s). Hence we focus on computing the expansion in the signature
size, which depends on the value of the compression factor.
Value of Compression Factor c. Recall that in SPHINCS+, the entire hyper-
tree (including all WOTS+ and XMSS signatures, and also all of FORS signatures
Merkle trees) is deterministically derived from the private keys and seed, and can
be considered as public information as it might be revealed as part of the benign
signing process. The messages (and optional randomness) determine which pri-
vate leaves of the FORS trees will be opened as part of the signatures. To simplify
our calculation, we use the worst-case assumption that the adversary learns the
entire hypertree structure of the SPHINCS+ signature, and all FORS signatures’
Merkle trees.8 As another worst-case assumption, we assume that the adversary
8 In practice, the number of the hypertee leaves is close to the number of allowed
signatures, thus a large fraction of the leaves will not be revealed.

136
C. Boschini et al.
can forge a signature without being detected, as long as there is at least a sin-
gle published value in any chain in any WOTS+ signature,9 or a single leaf in
any FORS Merkle tree, that has only one preimage. We will now calculate the
probability of such an event to occur in FSS.SPHINCS-128 s (the augmentation
of SPHINCS+-128 s to an FSS) instance as a function of the compression factor
c. Overall, the number of values Nval we want to have more than one preimage
is the the sum of the number of leaves for FORS and the total number of chains
in all of the WOTS+ signatures,
NFORS = 2h; NWOTS+ = 2h · (1 + 2−h/d + 2−2h/d + 2−3h/d...) < 2 · 2h
Nval = NFORS · t · k + NWOTS+ · l ≈2h · t · k
Where h is the height of the hyper-tree, d is the height of the XMSS tree, t
is the number of leaves in a FORS tree, k is the number of trees in FORS,
and l is the number of chains in a WOTS+ signatures. For SPHINCS+-128 s
Nval ≈263 · 212 · 14 < 279. The probability that at least one of these points has
one preimage can be bounded using Lemma 3 as ε := Nval · 2 exp(−2c). Hence,
c = 8 is enough to have ε ≈2−368 ≪2−128. We can now bound the number of
additional bytes for FSS.SPHINCS by c · (k + d · l · w). For FSS.SPHINCS-128 s
with c = 8 this results in 8 · (14 + 7 · 35 · 16)bits = 3934bytes. In the case of
the variant that returns parallel signatures, this number is doubled.
9
Discussion
In this work, we propose to use (the already existing) Fail-Stop Signatures as
a tool to mitigate the security risk posed by quantum computers. Indeed, their
inherent fail-stop mechanism would allow to detect breaks of post-quantum sig-
natures and to deprecate them even without even knowing how an attack would
work. Our extension of the model to ﬁne-grained security allows to design practi-
cal FSS of existing constructions, in particular, FSS.SPHINCS, the fail-stop ver-
sion of SPHINCS+. This new look at FSS opens up a lot of interesting research
directions, from how to design FSS versions of signatures relying on Σ-protocols
(e.g., Dilithium [27]), to improve our solution to integrate the hash-and-sign
mechanism in FSS.
Acknowledgements. We thank Oded Golderich, Yehuda Lindell, and Guy Rothblum
for valuable discussions and insights. We also thank Noga Amit, Gal Arnon, and Matan
Hamilis for reading a preliminary version of this document. Cecilia Boschini has been
supported by the Universit`a della Svizzera Italiana under the SNSF project no. 182452,
and by the Postdoc.Mobility grant no. P500PT 203075. Hila Dahari is a fellow of the
Ariane de Rothschild Women Doctoral Program and supported in part by grants from
the Israel Science Foundation (no. 950/15 and 2686/20) and by the Simons Foundation
Collaboration on the Theory of Algorithmic Fairness. Work done in part while a visitor
9 Unlike the case of WOTS+ and XMSS, here A cannot chose the messages signed
with WOTS+, so it can only target the single value in the chain that was opened.

That’s Not My Signature! Fail-Stop Signatures for a Post-quantum World
137
at the FACT Research Center at Reichman University, supported in part by AFOSR
Award FA9550-21-1-0046. Moni Naor is supported in part by grants from the Israel
Science Foundation (no. 2686/20), by the Simons Foundation Collaboration on the
Theory of Algorithmic Fairness and by the Israeli Council for Higher Education (CHE)
via the Weizmann Data Science Research Center. Eyal Ronen is partly supported by
ISF grant no. 1807/23 and the Len Blavatnik and the Blavatnik Family Foundation.
References
1. Adrian, D., et al.: Imperfect forward secrecy: how Diﬃe-Hellman fails in practice.
In: Ray, I., Li, N., Kruegel, C. (eds.) ACM CCS 2015, pp. 5–17. ACM Press,
October 2015. https://doi.org/10.1145/2810103.2813707
2. Alagic, G., et al.: Status report on the third round of the NIST post-quantum
cryptography standardization process (2022). https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/
detail/nistir/8413/ﬁnal, Accessed 10 July 2022
3. Aumasson, J.P., et al.: SPHINCS+. submission to NIST’s post-quantum crypto
standardization project, v.3 (2022). http://sphincs.org/data/sphincs+-round3-
speciﬁcation.pdf. Accessed 5 Oct 2022
4. Aviram, N., Dowling, B., Komargodski, I., Paterson, K.G., Ronen, E., Yogev,
E.: Practical (post-quantum) key combiners from one-wayness and applications
to TLS. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch., p. 65 (2022). https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/
065
5. Bari´c, N., Pﬁtzmann, B.: Collision-free accumulators and fail-stop signature
schemes without trees. In: Fumy, W. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 1997. LNCS, vol. 1233,
pp. 480–494. Springer, Heidelberg (1997). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-69053-
0 33
6. Ben-Sasson, E., Goldberg, L., Levit, D.: STARK friendly hash – survey and rec-
ommendation. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/948 (2020). https://eprint.
iacr.org/2020/948
7. Bernstein, D.J., H¨ulsing, A., K¨olbl, S., Niederhagen, R., Rijneveld, J., Schwabe, P.:
The SPHINCS+ signature framework. In: Cavallaro, L., Kinder, J., Wang, X., Katz,
J. (eds.) ACM CCS 2019, pp. 2129–2146. ACM Press, November 2019. https://
doi.org/10.1145/3319535.3363229
8. Beullens, W.: Breaking rainbow takes a weekend on a laptop. In: Dodis, Y., Shrimp-
ton, T. (eds.) CRYPTO 2022, Part II. LNCS, vol. 13508, pp. 464–479. Springer,
Heidelberg (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15979-4 16
9. Boschini, C., Dahari, H., Naor, M., Ronen, E.: That’s not my signature! Fail-stop
signatures for a post-quantum world. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2023/1754
(2023). https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1754
10. Boudot, F., Gaudry, P., Guillevic, A., Heninger, N., Thom´e, E., Zimmermann,
P.: Factorization of RSA-250 (2020). https://sympa.inria.fr/sympa/arc/cado-nfs/
2020-02/msg00001.html
11. Castryck, W., Decru, T.: An eﬃcient key recovery attack on SIDH (preliminary
version). IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch., p. 975 (2022). https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/
975
12. Chaum, D., Fiat, A., Naor, M.: Untraceable electronic cash. In: Goldwasser, S.
(ed.) CRYPTO 1988. LNCS, vol. 403, pp. 319–327. Springer, New York (1990).
https://doi.org/10.1007/0-387-34799-2 25
13. Chen, Y.: Quantum algorithms for lattice problems. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Paper 2024/555 (2024). https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/555

138
C. Boschini et al.
14. Damg˚ard, I.B., Pedersen, T.P., Pﬁtzmann, B.: On the existence of statistically
hiding bit commitment schemes and fail-stop signatures. In: Stinson, D.R. (ed.)
CRYPTO 1993. LNCS, vol. 773, pp. 250–265. Springer, Heidelberg (1994). https://
doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48329-2 22
15. Fiat, A., Shamir, A.: How to prove yourself: practical solutions to identiﬁcation and
signature problems. In: Odlyzko, A.M. (ed.) CRYPTO 1986. LNCS, vol. 263, pp.
186–194. Springer, Heidelberg (1987). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-47721-7 12
16. Goldreich, O.: Foundations of Cryptography: Basic Applications, vol. 2. Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge (2004)
17. Grover, L.K.: A fast quantum mechanical algorithm for database search. In: STOC,
pp. 212–219. ACM (1996)
18. Haitner, I., Hoch, J.J., Reingold, O., Segev, G.: Finding collisions in interactive
protocols - a tight lower bound on the round complexity of statistically-hiding
commitments. In: 48th FOCS, pp. 669–679. IEEE Computer Society Press, October
2007. https://doi.org/10.1109/FOCS.2007.27
19. Haitner, I., Reingold, O.: Statistically-hiding commitment from any one-way func-
tion. In: Johnson, D.S., Feige, U. (eds.) 39th ACM STOC, pp. 1–10. ACM Press,
June 2007. https://doi.org/10.1145/1250790.1250792
20. Halevi, S., Micali, S.: Practical and provably-secure commitment schemes from
collision-free hashing. In: Koblitz, N. (ed.) CRYPTO 1996. LNCS, vol. 1109, pp.
201–215. Springer, Heidelberg (1996). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-68697-5 16
21. H¨ulsing, A.: W-OTS+ – shorter signatures for hash-based signature schemes. In:
Youssef, A., Nitaj, A., Hassanien, A.E. (eds.) AFRICACRYPT 2013. LNCS, vol.
7918, pp. 173–188. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
642-38553-7 10
22. Hulsing,
A.,
et
al.:
SPHINCS+.
Technical
report,
National
Institute
of
Standards and Technology (2022). https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/post-quantum-
cryptography/selected-algorithms-2022
23. H¨ulsing, A., Kudinov, M.: Recovering the tight security proof of SPHINCS+.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2022/346 (2022). https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/
346
24. Kiktenko, E.O., Kudinov, M.A., Bulychev, A.A., Fedorov, A.K.: Proof-of-forgery
for hash-based signatures. In: di Vimercati, S.D.C., Samarati, P. (eds.) Proceedings
of the 18th International Conference on Security and Cryptography, SECRYPT
2021, 6–8 July 2021, pp. 333–342. SCITEPRESS (2021)
25. Lamport, L.: Constructing digital signatures from a one-way function. Technical
report SRI-CSL-98, SRI International Computer Science Laboratory, October 1979
26. Laurie, B., Messeri, E., Stradling, R.: Certiﬁcate transparency version 2.0.
RFC 9162, RFC Editor, December 2021
27. Lyubashevsky, V., et al.: CRYSTALS-DILITHIUM. Technical report, National
Institute of Standards and Technology (2020). https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/post-
quantum-cryptography/round-3-submissions
28. Maino, L., Martindale, C.: An attack on SIDH with arbitrary starting curve. IACR
Cryptol. ePrint Arch., p. 1026 (2022). https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/1026
29. Mashatan, A., Ouaﬁ, K.: Eﬃcient fail-stop signatures from the factoring assump-
tion. In: Lai, X., Zhou, J., Li, H. (eds.) ISC 2011. LNCS, vol. 7001, pp. 372–385.
Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-24861-0 25
30. MATZOV: Report on the security of LWE: improved dual lattice attack. https://
zenodo.org/record/6493704#.Yz qSUpBxkg. Accessed 7 Oct 2022

That’s Not My Signature! Fail-Stop Signatures for a Post-quantum World
139
31. Merkle, R.C.: A certiﬁed digital signature. In: Brassard, G. (ed.) CRYPTO 1989.
LNCS, vol. 435, pp. 218–238. Springer, New York (1990). https://doi.org/10.1007/
0-387-34805-0 21
32. NIST: Call for additional digital signature schemes for the post-quantum cryptog-
raphy standardization process (2022). https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/pqc-dig-sig/
standardization/call-for-proposals. Accessed 7 Oct 2022
33. Pedersen, T.P., Pﬁtzmann, B.: Fail-stop signatures. SIAM J. Comput. 26(2), 291–
330 (1997). https://doi.org/10.1137/S009753979324557X
34. Perlner, R., Kelsey, J., Cooper, D.: Breaking category ﬁve SPHINCS+ with SHA-
256. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2022/1061 (2022). https://eprint.iacr.org/
2022/1061
35. Pﬁtzmann, B.: Digital Signature Schemes. LNCS, vol. 1100. Springer, Heidelberg
(1996). https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0024619
36. Prest, T., et al.: FALCON. Technical report, National Institute of Standards and
Technology (2020). https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/post-quantum-cryptography/
round-3-submissions
37. Rogaway, P.: The moral character of cryptographic work. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Report 2015/1162 (2015). https://eprint.iacr.org/2015/1162
38. Safavi-Naini, R., Susilo, W., Wang, H.: Fail-stop signature for long messages
(extended abstract). In: Roy, B., Okamoto, E. (eds.) INDOCRYPT 2000. LNCS,
vol. 1977, pp. 165–177. Springer, Heidelberg (2000). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-
540-44495-5 15
39. Safavi-Naini, R., Susilo, W., Wang, H.: An eﬃcient construction for fail-stop sig-
nature for long messages. J. Inf. Sci. Eng. 17(6), 879–898 (2001). http://www.iis.
sinica.edu.tw/page/jise/2001/200111 02.html
40. Shor, P.W.: Polynomial-time algorithms for prime factorization and discrete log-
arithms on a quantum computer. SIAM J. Comput. 26(5), 1484–1509 (1997).
https://doi.org/10.1137/S0097539795293172
41. Stevens, M., Bursztein, E., Karpman, P., Albertini, A., Markov, Y.: The ﬁrst col-
lision for full SHA-1. In: Katz, J., Shacham, H. (eds.) CRYPTO 2017, Part I.
LNCS, vol. 10401, pp. 570–596. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-319-63688-7 19
42. Susilo, W.: Short fail-stop signature scheme based on factorization and discrete
logarithm assumptions. Theor. Comput. Sci. 410(8–10), 736–744 (2009)
43. Susilo, W., Mu, Y.: Provably secure fail-stop signature schemes based on RSA.
Int. J. Wirel. Mob. Comput. 1(1), 53–60 (2005). https://doi.org/10.1504/IJWMC.
2005.008055
44. Susilo, W., Safavi-Naini, R.: An eﬃcient fail-stop signature scheme based on fac-
torization. In: Lee, P.J., Lim, C.H. (eds.) ICISC 2002. LNCS, vol. 2587, pp. 62–74.
Springer, Heidelberg (2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-36552-4 5
45. Susilo, W., Safavi-Naini, R., Gysin, M., Seberry, J.: A new and eﬃcient fail-stop
signature scheme. Comput. J. 43(5), 430–437 (2000). https://doi.org/10.1093/
comjnl/43.5.430
46. Susilo, W., Safavi-Naini, R., Pieprzyk, J.: RSA-based fail-stop signature schemes.
In: Proceedings of the 1999 International Conference on Parallel Processing Work-
shops, ICPPW 1999, Wakamatsu, Japan, 21–24 September 1999, pp. 161–166.
IEEE Computer Society (1999). https://doi.org/10.1109/ICPPW.1999.800056
47. van Heijst, E., Pedersen, T.P., Pﬁtzmann, B.: New constructions of fail-stop sig-
natures and lower bounds. In: Brickell, E.F. (ed.) CRYPTO 1992. LNCS, vol. 740,
pp. 15–30. Springer, Heidelberg (1993). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48071-4 2

140
C. Boschini et al.
48. van Heyst, E., Pedersen, T.P.: How to make eﬃcient fail-stop signatures. In: Ruep-
pel, R.A. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 1992. LNCS, vol. 658, pp. 366–377. Springer, Hei-
delberg (1993). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-47555-9 30
49. Waidner, M., Pﬁtzmann, B.: The dining cryptographers in the disco: unconditional
sender and recipient untraceability with computationally secure serviceability. In:
Quisquater, J.-J., Vandewalle, J. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 1989. LNCS, vol. 434, p.
690. Springer, Heidelberg (1990). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-46885-4 69
50. Wang, X., Yin, Y.L., Yu, H.: Finding collisions in the full SHA-1. In: Shoup, V.
(ed.) CRYPTO 2005. LNCS, vol. 3621, pp. 17–36. Springer, Heidelberg (2005).
https://doi.org/10.1007/11535218 2
51. Wikipedia
contributors:
Flame
(malware)
—
Wikipedia,
the
free
ency-
clopedia (2022). https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Flame (malware)&
oldid=1121984346. Accessed 24 Jan 2023
52. Yamakawa, T., Kitajima, N., Nishide, T., Hanaoka, G., Okamoto, E.: A short fail-
stop signature scheme from factoring. In: Chow, S.S.M., Liu, J.K., Hui, L.C.K.,
Yiu, S.M. (eds.) ProvSec 2014. LNCS, vol. 8782, pp. 309–316. Springer, Cham
(2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-12475-9 22

