Zero-Knowledge IOPs Approaching
Witness Length
Noga Ron-Zewi1(B)
and Mor Weiss2
1 University of Haifa, Haifa, Israel
noga@cs.haifa.ac.il
2 Bar-Ilan University, Ramat Gan, Israel
mor.weiss@biu.ac.il
Abstract. Interactive Oracle Proofs (IOPs) allow a probabilistic veriﬁer
interacting with a prover to verify the validity of an NP statement while
reading only few bits from the prover messages. IOPs generalize standard
Probabilistically-Checkable Proofs (PCPs) to the interactive setting, and
in the few years since their introduction have already exhibited major
improvements in main parameters of interest (such as the proof length
and prover and veriﬁer running times), which in turn led to signiﬁcant
improvements in constructions of succinct arguments. Zero-Knowledge
(ZK) IOPs additionally guarantee that the view of any query-bounded
(possibly malicious) veriﬁer can be eﬃciently simulated. ZK-IOPs are the
main building block of succinct ZK arguments which use the underlying
cryptographic object (e.g., a collision-resistant hash function) as a black
box.
In this work, we construct the ﬁrst ZK-IOPs approaching the witness
length for a natural NP problem. More speciﬁcally, we design constant-
query and constant-round IOPs for 3SAT in which the total communi-
cation is (1 + γ)m, where m is the number of variables and γ > 0 is
an arbitrarily small constant, and ZK holds against veriﬁers querying
mβ bits from the prover’s messages, for a constant β > 0. This gives a
ZK variant of a recent result of Ron-Zewi and Rothblum (FOCS ‘20),
who construct (non-ZK) IOPs approaching the witness length for a large
class of NP languages. Previous constructions of ZK-IOPs incurred an
(unspeciﬁed) large constant multiplicative overhead in the proof length,
even when restricting to ZK against the honest veriﬁer.
We obtain our ZK-IOPs by improving the two main building blocks
underlying most ZK-IOP constructions, namely ZK codes and ZK-IOPs
for sumcheck. More speciﬁcally, we give the ﬁrst ZK-IOPs for sumcheck
that achieve both sublinear communication for sumchecking a general
tensor code, and a ZK guarantee. We also show a strong ZK preserva-
tion property for tensors of ZK codes, which extends a recent result of
Bootle, Chiesa, and Liu (EC ‘22). Given the central role of these objects
in designing ZK-IOPs, these results might be of independent interest.
1
Introduction
In this work we design short zero-knowledge Interactive Oracle Proofs (IOPs),
whose length approaches the witness length. Before describing our results, we
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2024
L. Reyzin and D. Stebila (Eds.): CRYPTO 2024, LNCS 14929, pp. 105–137, 2024.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-68403-6_4

106
N. Ron-Zewi and M. Weiss
ﬁrst give some background on zero-knowledge IOPs, and the special case of
(zero-knowledge) probabilistically-checkable proofs.
PCPs. Probabilistically Checkable Proofs (PCPs) allow a probabilistic veri-
ﬁer V with oracle access to a purported proof π to verify claims of the form
“x ∈L” while making only a few queries to π. The celebrated PCP theo-
rem [ALM+92,AS92] asserts that any non-deterministic language in NTIME(N)
has a PCP that can be veriﬁed with O(1) queries to a poly(N)-length proof.
Since their introduction, PCPs have found far-reaching applications, most
notably to hardness of approximation, and to constructions of succinct argu-
ments [Kil92,Mic00], namely highly-eﬃcient proof systems in which the commu-
nication is sublinear in N, but soundness only holds against eﬃcient malicious
provers.
Over the last decades, there has been a large body of work attempting to
reduce the length of PCPs, which was initially a very large polynomial. In par-
ticular, an inﬂuential line of work has led to constant-query PCPs of quasi-
linear length ˜O(N) for languages in NTIME(N) [BGH+05,Din07]. Despite this
progress, determining the minimal length of constant-query PCPs, and in par-
ticular obtaining linear length PCPs, is still an important goal. Since this goal
depends on the computational model – because transitions between diﬀerent
computational models typically incur poly-logarithmic overheads – the focus is
usually on a speciﬁc NP language of interest, such as circuit SAT or related
variants. While constant-query and linear-length PCPs are currently not known
for such languages, more recently [BKK+16] constructed O(n)-length PCPs for
circuit SAT over size-n circuits, albeit with a large query complexity on the order
of nϵ (for an arbitrarily small ϵ > 0).
In what follows, for a non-deterministic language L, we use n, m, N to denote
the input length, witness length, and non-deterministic veriﬁcation time of L,
respectively.
Zero-Knowledge PCPs. Zero-Knowledge PCPs (ZK-PCPs) [KPT97], introduced
soon after the works of [AS92,ALM+92], are PCPs in which the proof is ran-
domized, and has an additional zero-knowledge (ZK) guarantee. Speciﬁcally, any
(possibly malicious and computationally-unbounded) veriﬁer that is t-restricted
– namely, can only query t proof bits, for an a-priori ﬁxed bound t – learns only
the validity of the claim, i.e., that x ∈L. This is formalized in the simulation-
based paradigm by requiring that for any such t-restricted veriﬁer there exists a
Probabilistic Polynomial Time (PPT) simulator that is given only the input x,
but does not have access to the proof or the NP witness, and can simulate the
view of the veriﬁer, consisting of her input and answers to her oracle queries. One
motivation for the study of ZK-PCPs is that they can be used to construct suc-
cinct arguments that are also ZK in the sense that a computationally-bounded
veriﬁer learns nothing except the validity of the claim, and which use the under-
lying cryptographic building block (e.g., a collision-resistent hash function) as a
black-box.

Zero-Knowledge IOPs Approaching Witness Length
107
However, despite over two decades of research, ZK-PCP constructions are
still far from matching the eﬃciency of non-ZK PCPs, requiring for example
a large polynomial proof length [KPT97,IW14,IWY16], large query complex-
ity [IKOS07,HVW21], exponential prover running time [GOS24], adaptive hon-
est veriﬁcation [KPT97,IW14], or only guaranteeing non-eﬃcient ZK simula-
tion [IWY16]. These ZK-PCPs are obtained via generic constructions employing
cryptographic building blocks such as locking schemes [KPT97,IW14], secure
multi-party computation protocols [IKOS07,HVW21], and leakage-resilient cir-
cuits [IWY16]. Consequently, unlike standard PCPs, known ZK-PCPs do not
posses any “nice” algebraic structure (even when the generic construction is
based on a non-ZK PCP that does have such structure [KPT97,IW14,IWY16]).
One notable exception is the recent independent work of [GOS24] whose ZK-
IOPs for #P cleverly achieve ZK while preserving the algebraic structure of
the underlying (non-ZK) PCP. However, the prover in their construction runs in
exponential time, and it is not clear if (and how) their results can be scaled-down
to NP.
IOPs. Interactive Oracle Proofs (IOPs) [BCS16,RRR17] were recently intro-
duced as a generalization of the PCP model that combines also aspects of Inter-
active Proofs (IPs) [GMR85].1 In an IOP system, the veriﬁer V interacts with a
prover P (similar to IPs), and has oracle access to the prover messages (as in a
PCP). The study of IOPs – which has seen rapid progress in the few years since
its inception – is motivated from both theoretical and practical perspectives.
From a theoretical perspective, a recent sequence of works resulted in IOPs
whose eﬃciency exceeds their PCP counterparts, as well as IOP constructions in
parameter regimes that are widely believed to be impossible in the PCP setting.
For example, [BCG+17] constructed constant-query IOPs for circuit SAT whose
length (i.e., total communication) is linear in the circuit size n, improving on the
nϵ-query linear-length PCP of [BKK+16]. Moreover, while if NP ⊆coNP/poly
then there do not exist PCPs whose length is a ﬁxed polynomial in the length
m of the NP witness [FS11], such IOPs – of length poly(m) – exist for a large
class of NP languages [KR08].
Furthermore, in a more recent work [RR20], Ron-Zewi and Rothblum
obtained IOPs that improve on both aforementioned constructions. Speciﬁcally,
they obtained constant-query IOPs for circuit SAT of length approaching the
circuit size n (i.e., (1 + γ) · n for an arbitrarily small constant γ > 0), improving
on the IOPs of [BCG+17] which obtained length c · n for a large unspeciﬁed
constant c > 1. Moreover, for a large class of NP languages (speciﬁcally, lan-
guages that can be veriﬁed in polynomial time and bounded polynomial space)
they managed to obtain proof length approaching the witness length m. The
technical core of the construction of [RR20] was a new code switching technique
(inspired by [Mei13]) that allows one to trade less eﬃcient polynomial codes,
commonly used in such proof systems, with more eﬃcient tensor codes. This
1 Special cases of IOPs were considered earlier, in the Interactive PCP (IPCP) model
of Kalai and Raz [KR08], and the duplex PCPs of Ben-Sasson et al. [BCGV16].

108
N. Ron-Zewi and M. Weiss
technique was later used in follow up works to obtain IOPs with linear-time
provers [BCG20,RR22].
From a practical perspective, IOPs lie at the core of state-of-the-art suc-
cinct argument systems, and their improved eﬃciency (compared to PCPs) has
been leveraged in several recent works [BBHR18,BCR+19,BBHR19,BGKS20,
Set20,GLS+23,XZS22], including practical implementations [BCR+19,Set20,
GLS+23,XZS22].
Zero-knowledge IOPs. Zero-Knowledge IOPs (ZK-IOPs) [BCGV16,BCF+16]
generalize standard IOPs to the ZK setting, analogously to how ZK-PCPs gener-
alize standard PCPs. Similarly to ZK-PCPs, ZK-IOPs can also be used to design
and implement succinct black-box ZK arguments.
A large body of works have studied diﬀerent aspects of ZK-IOPs, leading
to ZK-IOP constructions that signiﬁcantly improve over the best ZK-PCP con-
structions to date.2 In more detail, this line of work was initiated by Ben-Sasson
et al. [BCGV16,BCF+17] who constructed a 2-round ZK-IOP for NTIME(N)
with quasi-linear length O(N) (and logarithmic query complexity). Follow-up
work focused on the Rank-1 Constraint Satisfaction (R1CS) problem,3 and
obtained ZK-IOPs with either linear length O(n) (and logarithmic query com-
plexity) [BCR+19], or linear-time provers in the arithmetic circuit model)over a
large, super-constant, sized ﬁeld) [BCL22]. Unlike the aforementioned ZK-PCP
constructions, these ZK-IOP constructions utilized zero-knowledge variants of
standard PCP techniques such as arithmetization, error-correcting codes, and
the sumcheck protocol [LFKN92].
1.1
Our Results
Despite the impressive progress described above, prior to this work there was still
a gap between short ZK- and non-ZK IOPs, even when restricting to the setting
of honest-veriﬁer ZK. Speciﬁcally, while for natural NP languages, IOPs whose
length approaches the witness length were known [RR20], such ZK-IOPs (and
even HVZK-IOPs) were not known, and constructing them was posed in [BCL22]
as an interesting question for future research.
In this work, we answer this question aﬃrmatively by constructing ZK-IOPs
approaching the witness length for the natural NP language of 3SAT, i.e., the
language consisting of satisﬁable 3CNFs. The natural NP witness for this lan-
guage is the satisfying assignment w ∈{0, 1}m, where m denotes the number of
2 We note that works on ZK-IOPs have considered diﬀerent ZK guarantees – ranging
from Honest-Veriﬁer ZK (HVZK) to ZK against t-restricted veriﬁers for an arbitrary
t – while attempting to optimize various eﬃciency measures. In this overview, we
focus on constructions with full-ﬂedged ZK and short proof lengths, which are most
relevant to our work. See the full version [RZW24] for a more detailed discussion.
3 In the R1CS problem, the input consists of matrices A, B and C and a vector x,
and the question is whether there exists a vector z such that (Ax′) ⋆(Bx′) = Cx′,
where ⋆represents pointwise multiplication, and x′ = (x, z). This problem is known
to admit a linear-time reduction from circuit satisﬁability.

Zero-Knowledge IOPs Approaching Witness Length
109
variables, and our main result gives a constant-round and constant-query ZK-
IOP for 3SAT whose length (i.e., total communication) approaches m. We chose
to focus in this work on the language of 3SAT because it is a basic and natu-
ral NP language. However, we believe our techniques are general and versatile
enough to apply also to other related NP languages, such as k-SAT for constant
k > 3, circuit SAT, and R1CS.4
The properties of our ZK-IOP are summarized in the following theorem,
where a t-ZK-IOP is an IOP which is ZK against any (possibly malicious,
adaptive and computationally unbounded) t-restricted veriﬁer. (See the full ver-
sion [RZW24] for the formal statement.)
Theorem 1 (ZK-IOPs approaching witness length– Informal). For any
constant γ > 0 there exists a constant β > 0, so that there exists a constant-round
mβ-ZK-IOP for 3SAT on m variables with constant soundness error, communi-
cation complexity (1 + γ) · m, and constant query and round complexities.
The above theorem is a direct generalization of the result of [RR20] which
gave an IOP for 3SAT (as well as a larger class of NP problems) with the same
properties, but without the ZK guarantee. Note that using known reductions
from 3SAT to R1CS, the results of [BCR+19,BCL22] only give ZK-IOPs for
3SAT whose length is linear in the input length n, which may be as large as m3
(since a 3CNF over m variables may have Ω(m3) diﬀerent clauses).5
Though this is not the main focus of our work, our IOPs also achieve decent
running times for the prover and the veriﬁer. Speciﬁcally, the veriﬁer runs in
sublinear time, on the order of mϵ for an arbitrarily small constant ϵ > 0, after a
poly(m)-time local preprocessing step; And the prover runs in polynomial time,
given the witness, and a generator matrix for a certain code sampled at random,
see the full version [RZW24] for further details.6
Our ZK-IOPs are obtained by combining the code switching technique
of [RR20] with new zero-knowledge ingredients. Speciﬁcally, our ZK-IOPs rely on
new strong zero-knowledge properties for general tensor codes, as well as a new
zero-knowledge sumcheck protocol for general tensor codes with sublinear com-
munication. Given the ubiquity of tensor codes and the sumcheck protocol in
4 We note that since we care about very small factors in the proof length, our results do
not immediately apply to these problems because standard NP reductions between
these problems typically incur large constant overheads in the witness length (indeed,
even for the language of circuit SAT, making certain structural choices such as
changing the allowed logical gates or the fan-in may incur large constant overheads
in the circuit size).
5 While it is plausible that the techniques of [BCR+19,BCL22] could be used to give
ZK-IOPs for 3SAT that are linear in the witness length m, they don’t seem to
provide ZK-IOPs approaching the witness length for any natural NP languages such
as R1CS, 3SAT, or circuit SAT; Indeed, obtaining such ZK-IOPs approaching the
witness length was posed as an interesting question for future research in [BCL22,
page 11].
6 We note that the sampling of the generator matrix can be handled by, e.g., allowing
non-uniform provers, see the full version for more details.

110
N. Ron-Zewi and M. Weiss
IOP constructions, we believe that these new zero-knowledge ingredients may
be of independent interest, and may serve as building blocks in future IOP con-
structions. Next we describe these building blocks, our new constructions and
how we use them to obtain our Main Theorem 1.
2
Technical Overview and Additional Results
In this section, we provide an overview of our ZK-IOP approaching the witness
length, and the main new ingredients used to obtain it. Towards this, we ﬁrst
describe in Sects. 2.1 and 2.2 below the main new ingredients used in the design
of our ZK-IOP, which are new strong zero-knowledge properties of tensor codes,
and a zero-knowledge sumcheck protocol for general tensor codes with sublinear
communication. Then in Sect. 2.3 we explain how these new ingredients can be
used to obtain our ZK-IOP approaching the witness length, and how to solve
some additional challenges that arise in the design of these IOPs. Finally, in
Sect. 2.4 we highlight some interesting directions for future research, based on
our new ingredients.
2.1
Zero-Knowledge Properties of Tensor Codes
Our ﬁrst main ingredient is establishing new strong zero-knowledge properties of
tensor codes. These properties extend recent results on zero-knowledge properties
of tensor codes [BCL22], and answer some open questions posed there. Before
stating our results, we ﬁrst give some background on zero-knowledge codes and
tensor codes, and their importance in IOP design.
Zero-Knowledge Codes and Their Uses in IOP Constructions. Many (ZK-)IOP
constructions follow a similar template to PCP constructions, in which the wit-
ness (or the entire computation) is encoded using an error-correcting code. At
a high-level, the encoding typically serves two orthogonal purposes. First, it
enables veriﬁcation by exploiting a built-in mechanism of the code that assists
veriﬁcation (e.g., supporting the sumcheck protocol, see Sect. 2.2 below for more
details). Second, to guarantee zero-knowledge, the encoding is replaced with
a randomized encoding that is zero-knowledge in the sense that even malicious
adversaries that query many codeword symbols learn nothing about the encoded
message. We say that a code is t-zero-knowledge (t-ZK) if it is ZK (in the
simulation-based paradigm) against malicious adversaries that can query at most
t codeword symbols.
Veriﬁcation of the IOP usually also requires checking that the prover sent a
valid witness encoding. For this, the code is taken to be locally testable, which
informally means that there exists a randomized oracle algorithm that can deter-
mine whether a given word w is a valid codeword, or rather far from any code-
word, by making few queries to w. We say that a code is q-locally testable (q-
LTC) if there exists such an algorithm (called a local tester) that makes at most
q queries to w. Naturally, it is desirable that the ZK parameter of a code would

Zero-Knowledge IOPs Approaching Witness Length
111
be signiﬁcantly larger than the query complexity of the local tester, i.e., t ≫q,
since even the honest veriﬁer must at the very least make q queries to the pur-
ported codeword. Being slightly informal, in this overview, we refer to a code
that is t-ZK and q-LTC for t ≫q as a ZK-LTC.
Tensor Codes. Traditionally, PCP constructions used polynomial-based codes
such as the Low-Degree Extension (LDE). Indeed, these codes are long-known
to be locally testable [RS96], and to also admit an eﬃcient sumcheck proto-
col [LFKN92]. These codes are also known to be ZK, and they in fact satisfy a
stronger ZK property called t-uniform ZK which roughly states that any t sym-
bols in a random encoding of the witness are uniformly random. (This should be
contrasted with standard t-ZK, which only guarantees that the queried codeword
symbols can be eﬃciently simulated without knowing the encoded message.)
The LDE encoding can be viewed as a special case of tensor codes, which we
now deﬁne. Let C1 : Fk1 →Fn1, C2 : Fk2 →Fn2 be linear codes (i.e., C1 and C2
are linear maps over a ﬁnite ﬁeld F). Then the tensor (product) code C1 ⊗C2 is a
code whose codewords are n1×n2 matrices with the constraint that each column
is a codeword of C1 and each row is a codeword of C2. The deﬁnition naturally
extends to higher dimensions by viewing codewords in the d-dimensional tensor
(C0)⊗d of a base code C0 as d-dimensional cubes, so that the restriction to any
axis-parallel line is a codeword of C0. Using this terminology, the LDE code
corresponds to the special case of C0 being the Reed-Solomon ( RS) code.
A recent line of work, starting with [Mei13,RR20], has shown that in fact the
LDE encoding can be replaced with more general tensor codes. Indeed, tensor
codes admit the sumcheck protocol [Mei13], are locally testable [BS06,Vid15],
and also have certain ZK properties [ISVW13,BCL22]. Moreover, as utilized in
a recent series of works, tensor codes have several advantages over polynomial-
based codes, such as achieving higher rate (i.e., shorter encoding length), smaller
alphabet, or linear-time encoding, by picking a base code satisfying these prop-
erties.
Our Results. In a recent work, Bootle et al. [BCL22] deﬁne a “natural” ran-
domized encoding function for linear codes and their tensors, and show that the
(uniform) ZK of any pair of linear codes is preserved under tensor products with
respect to this randomized encoding function. More accurately, they show that
if C1, C2 have t1- and t2-ZK (t1- and t2-uniform ZK, resp.), then C1 ⊗C2 has
min{t1, t2}-ZK (min{t1, t2}-uniform ZK, resp.). On the negative side, they show
an example of codes C1, C2 that have t1- and t2-uniform ZK, but C1 ⊗C2 does
not have max{t1, t2}-uniform ZK, and pose the question of whether C1 ⊗C2 can
have a larger ZK-threshold (such as max{t1, t2} or even t1 · t2) for (standard,
i.e., non-uniform) ZK [BCL20, Page 19].
We provide several extensions of the results of [BCL22]. These extensions
answer the question posed in [BCL22], and also imply ZK local testing procedures
for tensor codes that will be useful for obtaining our ZK-IOP of Theorem 1.

112
N. Ron-Zewi and M. Weiss
(1) Strong ZK properties of tensor codes.
First, we strengthen the results
of [BCL22] by showing that if C1, C2 have t1- and t2-ZK, then C1 ⊗C2 has
ZK against an adversary that reads t1 entire rows or t2 entire columns. As a
corollary, this implies that C1⊗C2 has max{t1, t2}-(non-uniform)-ZK, answering
positively the open question posed in [BCL22].
We also extend the above result on ZK against row/column adversaries
to adversaries that query higher-dimensional axis-parallel subpaces in higher-
dimensional tensors (C0)⊗d. Since the local tester for tensor codes queries a
random axis-parallel subspace [BS06,Vid15], this implies as a corollary that if
C0 has 1-ZK, then its tensor product (C0)⊗d has a local testing procedure that
has ZK against the honest tester.
Remark 1 (Connection to Secret Sharing). The fact that, for an appropriate
ZK parameter, ZK holds against adversaries reading full rows or full columns
is well known for the special case of 2-dimensional tensors of RS, which are
used to design secret sharing schemes (under the name “bivariate Shamir”).
Moreover, originating in [BGW88], this property of 2-dimensional tensors of
RS was used extensively to design veriﬁable secret sharing schemes and secure
multi-party computation protocols. The special case of 2-dimensional tensors of
general linear codes was used in [CDM00] to design veriﬁable secret sharing and
secure multiparty computation protocols.
(2) Limitations on the ZK Threshold of Tensor Codes. Second, we show an
example of a code C0 that has t-uniform ZK, but C0 ⊗C0 does not have ω(t)-
(non-uniform) ZK. This answers negatively the open question posed in [BCL22],
by showing that C1 ⊗C2 does not necessarily have (t1 · t2)-(non-uniform)-ZK,
even if C1 and C2 have t1- and t2-uniform ZK. This also implies that even if C0
has a high zero-knowledge threshold, then (C0)⊗d is not necessarily a ZK-LTC
with respect to the aforementioned standard local tester which queries a random
axis-parallel subspace. That is, the query complexity of this local tester may not
be signiﬁcantly smaller then the zero-knowledge threshold, meaning the local
testing procedure is not ZK for a large class of malicious testers.7
To overcome the above limitation, we show that the tensor product of codes
with uniform-ZK has (standard) ZK against adaptive row/column adversaries.
Speciﬁcally, we prove that if C1, C2 have t1- and t2-uniform ZK, then the tensor
product C1 ⊗C2 is ZK against adversaries that ﬁrst make t ≤min{t1, t2} point
queries, and only then adaptively decide whether to read t1 −t entire rows or
t2 −t entire columns. As before, this result extends to higher-dimensional axis-
parallel subspaces in higher-dimensional tensors. This property of codes with
7 Our negative result should be constructed with a result of [ISVW13], who showed
that there exists a randomized encoding function for tensor codes - not necessarily the
natural one considered in [BCL22] – so that for any linear base code C0 : Fk →Fn,
C0 ⊗C0 has Ω(n2)-ZK with respect to this encoding function. This implies in turn
that for any base code C0, there exists a randomized encoding function with respect
to which its tensor product (C0)⊗d is a ZK-LTC. However, this randomized encoding
function does not suﬃce for our purposes since it is non-explicit, and we need the
special structure of the randomized encoding function of [BCL22].

Zero-Knowledge IOPs Approaching Witness Length
113
uniform-ZK is useful, because we show that it implies as a corollary that if C0
has t-uniform ZK, then there exists a 2-round constant query ZK-IOP – with
ZK against (t −1)-restricted malicious veriﬁers – for testing membership in the
tensor product (C0)⊗d.8
At a high level, the ZK-IOP veriﬁer ﬁrst executes the local tester for the
tensor product, but instead of making the queries, the veriﬁer sends the query
set to the prover, and then both parties run a short constant-query PCPP to
verify that the tester would have accepted on this query set. These ZK-IOPs for
membership testing can be viewed as a relaxation of ZK-LTCs, where the latter
correspond to the special case where there is no communication.
Proof Overview. In [BCL22], the ZK properties of tensor codes were shown using
an algebraic characterization of linear codes having ZK against point queries,
based on the generator matrix of the code and the distance of the dual code. We
instead take an algorithmic/simulation-based approach that exploits the struc-
ture and symmetry properties of tensor codes to directly design simulators for
these stronger ZK properties.
To show the negative result, we take the code C0 to be the punctured Reed-
Solomon code PRS : Fk →Fn, deﬁned as follows. Let I ⊆F be a ﬁxed subset
of ﬁeld elements of size |I| = k. Given a message m ∈Fk, let fm(X) be the
(unique) univariate polynomial of degree at most k −1 over F which satisﬁes
that fm(i) = m(i) for any i ∈I. The encoding of m is the evaluation table of
fm(X) on F \ I. It follows by deﬁnition, that in the tensor product PRS ⊗PRS :
Fk×k →Fn×n, the message can be viewed as the evaluation table over I × I of a
bivariate polynomial g(X, Y ) of individual degree at most k−1 over F, while the
codeword corresponds to the evaluation table of g(X, Y ) over (F \ I) × (F \ I).
The uniform-ZK property of the PRS code follows by the MDS property of
this code which states that the value of any k entries in the codeword determines
the codeword (and the encoded message). Our limitation result upper-bounding
the ZK threshold of PRS⊗PRS relies on the local decodability property of bivari-
ate polynomials. Speciﬁcally, while our results above show that the tensor prod-
uct PRS ⊗PRS has ZK against an adversary that queries axis-parallel lines, it
is not ZK against lines in arbitrary directions! In particular, querying the line
(i, i) for i ∈F \ I reveals the value of the bivariate polynomial on all points (i, i)
for i ∈F, which correspond to message entries.
2.2
A Zero-Knowledge Sumcheck Protocol with Sublinear
Communication
The second main building block in our ZK-IOPs approaching the witness length
is a zero-knowledge sumcheck protocol with sublinear communication.
8 In more detail, in the ZK-IOP the veriﬁer ﬁrst executes the local tester for the tensor
product, but instead of making the queries, the veriﬁer sends the query set to the
prover, and then both parties run a short constant-query PCPP to verify that the
tester would have accepted on this query set.

114
N. Ron-Zewi and M. Weiss
In the following, let C : Fk →Fn be an error-correcting code encoding
length-k messages m into length-n codewords C(m). The sumcheck protocol is
an interactive proof that allows the veriﬁer to check the validity of claims of the
form “
i∈[k] m(i) = α” for some value α ∈F, given oracle access to the encoding
c = C(m) of m. Such a protocol was initially shown for polynomial-based codes
(such as LDE) in [LFKN92], and was more recently extended to general tensor
codes in [Mei13]. Quite amazingly, these protocols allow the veriﬁer to check
the validity of the claim “
i∈[k] m(i) = α” by making only a single query to
c, and with total communication that is sublinear in the codeword length n.
As mentioned above, the sumcheck protocol is typically used to verify claims
about correctness of the encoded computation. Ron-Zewi and Rothblum [RR20]
(following Meir [Mei13]) used the sumcheck protocol also as the basis for their
code switching technique.9
To obtain our ZK-IOP approaching the witness length we require a zero-
knowledge version of the sumcheck protocol described above in which, roughly
speaking, any t-restricted veriﬁer V∗learns only few physical symbols of c, in
addition to the correctness of the sumcheck claim. In prior works [BCGV16,
BCF+17,BCG+17,BCR+19,CHM+20] this property was achieved by executing
the (non-ZK) sumcheck protocol on a random shift of the original codeword.
More precisely, to test whether 
i∈[k] m(i) = α, given oracle access to c, the
sumcheck protocol is executed on a shifted codeword of the form c′ := R + γ · c,
where R is a random codeword provided by the prover as an oracle, and γ is a
random scalar provided by the veriﬁer after she receives the oracle R (the veriﬁer
also needs to locally test R to make sure it is close to a valid codeword of C).
While the above method leads to a ZK sumcheck protocol which uses the
underlying (non-ZK) sumcheck protocol as a black box, the communication
becomes linear in the codeword length because of the need to send the ran-
dom codeword R. Jumping ahead, applying this method in our ZK-IOP for
3SAT with c being the encoded witness, will double the communication, and
in particular will not lead to a total communication which approaches the wit-
ness length. We remark that sublinear-communication sumcheck protocols are
known for the special case of (certain families of) polynomial codes. Speciﬁcally,
by exploiting special properties of these codes, Xie et al. [XZZ+19] design such
a protocol based on the GKR protocol [GKR15], while Bootle et al. [BCL22]
design such a protocol for sparse polynomial codes. However, these protocols do
not seem to immediately apply to the setting of general tensor codes, and thus
do not suﬃces for our purposes.
Our Results. We a design new sumcheck protocol with sublinear communica-
tion. We do so by exploiting the structure of Meir’s protocol for general tensor
codes [Mei13], instead of executing it as a black box on a masked codeword. This
in turn leads to a protocol with sublinear communication, albeit with weaker ZK
9 We note that the code switching technique actually requires an extension of the
sumcheck protocol, in which the goal is to verify claims of the form “
i∈[k] λ(i) ·
m(i) = α”, where the coeﬃcients λ(i) have a certain tensor structure.

Zero-Knowledge IOPs Approaching Witness Length
115
guarantees that we discuss below. In a nutshell, while in our sumcheck proto-
col V∗potentially learns more symbols of c compared to prior work, we show
that this subset of symbols is highly structured. Importantly, these weaker ZK
guarantees suﬃce for our purposes, given the stronger ZK properties of tensor
codes (discussed in the previous section) that we are able to show. Our sum-
check protocol obtains two diﬀerent ﬂavors of zero-knowledge, depending on the
properties of the underlying base code of the tensor product. Next we discuss
these two guarantees.
(1) General LTC Base Codes. First, we show that if C0 is an arbitrary q-LTC,
then the view of any (possibly malicious and unbounded) t-restricted veriﬁer V∗
in our sumcheck protocol for the tensor product C := (C0)⊗d can be perfectly
simulated given only (t + q + 1) “rows” of the given codeword c ∈(C0)⊗d, when
viewed as a codeword in the two-dimensional tensor C0 ⊗(C0)⊗(d−1) = (C0)⊗d,
namely given codewords in (C0)⊗(d−1).
Theorem 2 (Sublinear-Communication ZK Sumcheck – Informal). For
any constant integer d > 1 and a q-LTC C0 : Fk →Fn, there exists a constant
round IOP with constant soundness error and communication complexity O(n)
for verifying a sumcheck of (C0)⊗d, with the following ZK guarantee: There
exists a black-box straight-line PPT simulator Sim that can perfectly simulate
the view of any t-restricted veriﬁer, given t + q + 1 rows of c ∈(C0) ⊗(C0)⊗d−1
of Sim’s choice. The veriﬁer makes a single query to the given codeword c and
O(1) queries to the ﬁrst prover’s message, and reads the other prover messages
in full.
Remark 2. We note that the protocol given in the above theorem also applies
for verifying sums of the form “
i∈[k] λ(i) · m(i) = α”, where the coeﬃcients
λ(i) have a certain tensor structure. As shown in [RR20], such a generalized
form of sumcheck implies a code switching protocol, in which one can simulate
queries to a codeword C(m) in a tensor code C by making a constant number
of queries to the encoding C′(m) of m via another (unrelated) tensor code C′.
Thus, the above theorem also gives a sublinear-communication ZK protocol for
code switching.
Notice that the communication complexity of the sumcheck protocol given
in the above theorem is indeed sublinear in the codeword length of C = (C0)⊗d,
which is nd. We note that while the simulator in the above theorem makes q
more queries then the veriﬁer, we show that by increasing the honest veriﬁer’s
query complexity to q (instead of constant), we can design a simulator that only
makes t + 1 row queries (see the full version [RZW24] for details). Instantiating
the above Theorem 2 with a code C0 that is a ZK-LTC (speciﬁcally, a q-LTC that
has (t+q +1)-ZK), gives a (distributional)10 sumcheck protocol with full-ﬂedged
10 Roughly, distributional ZK guarantees that for any t-restricted veriﬁer V∗, and for
any message m, the view of V∗when given oracle access to a random encoding c of
m can be eﬃciently and perfectly simulated without access to c.

116
N. Ron-Zewi and M. Weiss
ZK against t-restricted veriﬁers (that is, V∗learns nothing about c except the
sum α).
(2) Tensor Base Codes. Unfortunately, Theorem 2 does not lead to a sumcheck
protocol with full-ﬂedged ZK when instantiated with a base code C0 that is not a
ZK-LTC (i.e., in which the query complexity of the local tester is not suﬃciently
smaller than the ZK threshold). In particular, it does not provide a meaningful
ZK guarantee for tensors of PRS, which are ubiquitous in ZK-IOP/PCP design,
and are also used in this work. To overcome this issue, we consider the case that
the base code C0 is itself a low-dimensional tensor product of another code B,
say C0 = B⊗3,11 and show that for such codes the information leakage in our
sumcheck protocol can be reduced. Speciﬁcally, we show that in this case the
view of any t-restricted veriﬁer can be simulated by a PPT simulator that ﬁrst
makes t′ ≤t point queries, and then queries (t+2−t′) axis-parallel hyperplanes
in a certain direction from the codeword c, when viewed as a codeword in the
tensor product B⊗(3d) = (C0)⊗d (the direction of the hyperplanes is chosen by
the malicious veriﬁer after making the point queries).
As we have shown in Sect. 2.1 above, tensor products of uniform ZK codes
have ZK against this type of queries, and consequently instantiating the above
variant of our sumcheck protocol with a code C0 = B⊗3 for a t-uniform ZK
code B (though not necessarily a ZK-LTC) gives full-ﬂedged ZK against (t −2)-
restricted veriﬁers. Jumping ahead, this variant of our sumcheck protocol will
be crucial for our ZK-IOP approaching the witness length, since the ZK-IOP
includes executing a sumcheck protocol on a tensor of PRS which has uniform-
ZK but is not a ZK-LTC.
Proof Overview. Both our results (for LTC/tensor base codes C0) are obtained
by utilizing the tensor structure of C. Speciﬁcally, our main observation is that
masking with a random codeword in the base code C0 suﬃces to hide c. For
the sake of this overview, assume for simplicity that d = 2, i.e., our goal is to
design a sumcheck protocol for the code C := C0 ⊗C0. In our protocol, the
prover P samples a random r ←Fk, and sets R = C(¯r) ∈Fn×n, where ¯r ∈Fk×k
denotes the matrix whose ﬁrst column is r, and all other entries are 0. A crucial
point is that every entry R(i, j) of R can be computed given a single entry in
ˆr := C0(r) ∈Fn. Therefore, P need not send R (whose length is n2) to the
veriﬁer V - it suﬃces to only send ˆr (whose length is n, which is in particular
sublinear in the codeword length n2 of C). The protocol then roughly proceeds
as before: P sends ˆr = C0(r), and the parties execute the sumcheck protocol on
the codeword c′ := R + γ · c, where γ is a random scalar provided by the veriﬁer
after she receives the oracle ˆr.
However, one additional point that needs to be handled is that a malicious
prover may send a malformed ˆr which is not a C0-codeword. V therefore needs to
check that ˆr is a codeword of C0. Notice that to do so while preserving ZK of the
11 We use 3-dimensional tensor products because this is the smallest dimension for
which the tensor product is known to be locally testable [BS06,Vid15].

Zero-Knowledge IOPs Approaching Witness Length
117
sumcheck protocol, we need the base code C0 to be locally testable. Indeed, since
ˆr is used to mask c then, intuitively, ZK requires that ˆr remain (mostly) hidden.
If C0 isn’t locally testable, checking that ˆr ∈C0 would require fully reading ˆr,
but then it would not mask c at all because V would fully know ˆr. Furthermore,
to get constant query complexity (independent of the query complexity of C0),
we add an additional round in which V executes the local tester, but instead of
making the queries herself, she sends the query set to P, who responds with the
answers v to the queries. V then checks that v is an accepting view of the tester,
and that it is consistent with ˆr (by making a single query to ˆr).
It is important to note that since the base code C0 has no ZK guarantees, we
cannot hope to claim that V∗learns nothing about m (except the sum α). Indeed,
even a single query to c can reveal non-trivial information (in particular, linear
dependencies) on m. Therefore, following previous works on ZK sumcheck, we
aim to quantify the amount (and type) of information which V∗learns during the
sumcheck protocol – from the prover messages, and her queries to c and ˆr. While
each of the t queries made to c and ˆr can be simulated by making just a single
point query to c, to consistently simulate P’s later messages conditioned on these
values, our simulator needs to obtain the whole row for each of these queries to
c, ˆr. Our simulator makes q additional queries to c to simulate v during the local
testing step described in the previous paragraph. This explains the structure and
number of queries made by the simulator of Theorem 2.
For the special case that C0 = B⊗3 for some code B, we use the standard local
tester for tensor codes – which queries a random axis-parallel two-dimensional
plane [BS06,Vid15] – to test membership in C0 = B⊗3. In this case, the veriﬁer
queries during local testing are highly structured, which assist the simulation.
Speciﬁcally, v can be simulated by querying a single hyperplane of c, when viewed
as a codeword in B⊗3 = C⊗6
0 , instead of making q queries to c. More accurately,
the simulator needs access to a stronger oracle which allows the adversary (the
simulator, in this case) to ﬁrst make point queries to c, and then adaptively
pick the direction of the hyperplanes. (Indeed, the honest local tester picks an
axis-parallel two-dimensional plane in a random direction, that is not known in
advance. Consequently, even the honest veriﬁer picks the direction adaptively,
and a malicious veriﬁer can additionally pick it arbitrarily.) This reduces the
total number of row queries to t + 2.
2.3
ZK-IOPs Approaching the Witness Length
In this section, we outline how we obtain our ZK-IOPs approaching the witness
length, by combining our new sublinear-communication ZK sumcheck protocol
for tensor codes from the previous section, with our results on strong ZK proper-
ties for tensor codes discussed in Sect. 2.1. To this end, we ﬁrst give an overview
of the IOPs approaching the witness length of Ron-Zewi and Rothblum [RR22],
and then discuss how our new ingredients can be used to add a zero-knowledge
guarantee to this protocol. Finally, we highlight some additional challenges that
arise in the design of our IOP.

118
N. Ron-Zewi and M. Weiss
IOPs for 3SAT. A main idea in PCP/IOP design – which goes back to the
ﬁrst PCP constructions [BFL91,BFLS91,Sud00,AS98,ALM+98], and was also
used in many later PCPs and IOPs – is to encode formulas using low-degree
polynomials (a.k.a, arithmetization). At a high level, a 3CNF formula ϕ over m
variables, with a satisfying assignment w ∈{0, 1}m, can be encoded using a single
low-degree polynomial over a ﬁnite ﬁeld F of size |F| ≫log m. This is done by ﬁrst
encoding w using a tensor of the Reed-Solomon code (i.e., the LDE encoding),
where the encoding ˆw of w is the unique s-variate polynomial of individual degree
h (for appropriate s, h) such that ˆw(i) = wi for every i ∈{0, 1}log(m) ≡[m].
The prover’s goal is now to convince the veriﬁer that ˆw is an LDE of a satisfy-
ing assignment for ϕ. By exploiting the algebraic structure of the LDE encoding,
this check can be carried out using the sumcheck protocol. More speciﬁcally, as
pointed out in [RR20], the sumcheck protocol can be viewed as an interactive
reduction that (roughly) allows a veriﬁer interacting with a prover to reduce a
claim of the form “w satisﬁes ϕ” to claims “ ˆw(ij) = vj, j = 1, 2, 3” for random
and independent i1, i2, i3. Thus, combining the LDE encoding with the sumcheck
protocol results in the following blueprint for an IOP (P, V) for 3SAT:
1. P computes the LDE ˆw of w, and sends it to V.
2. V checks that ˆw is indeed (close to) the LDE of some assignment to the
variables of ϕ, and otherwise rejects. (This requires local testability, which
the LDE has through a low-degree test [RS96].)
3. The prover and veriﬁer engage in the sumcheck protocol to reduce the claim
“w satisﬁes ϕ” to the claims “ ˆw(ij) = vj, j = 1, 2, 3” for random and inde-
pendent i1, i2, i3.
4. V reads ˆw(i1), ˆw(i2), ˆw(i3) and accepts if and only if ˆw(ij) = vj for every
j ∈{1, 2, 3}.
IOPs Approaching the Witness Length. The IOP approaching the witness length
of [RR20] combines the blueprint described above with a new technique called
code switching which they introduce (inspired by [Mei13]).12 More speciﬁcally,
the goal of [RR20] was to design IOPs whose total communication approaches
the witness length m. Therefore, they could not aﬀord to send the entire LDE
encoding ˆw for two main reasons. First, Reed-Solomon codes, and consequently
also the LDE encoding, are deﬁned over (large) super-constant alphabet size.
Consequently, encoding the binary assignment w using the LDE encoding will
incur a super-constant overhead which cannot lead to linear-length IOPs, let
alone ones approaching the witness length. Second, even ignoring the alphabet-
size issue, as pointed out in [Mei13,Mei14], the encoding requires a multiplication
property which facilitates checking non-linear relations, and this property inher-
ently requires rate at most 1
2 [Ran13]. (In particular, the encoding will at least
double the length, and consequently will not result in a proof approaching the
witness length.)
12 As mentioned above, the IOPs of [RR20] are for the much larger class of NP relations
for which membership can be decided in polynomial time and bounded polynomial
space; however, we only describe here their IOPs for 3SAT.

Zero-Knowledge IOPs Approaching Witness Length
119
Instead, they showed how to carry out the blueprint above using an encoding
of the witness w in any binary tensor code C of high-rate, instead of the LDE
encoding. More speciﬁcally, Ron-Zewi and Rothblum replace the LDE encoding
in Step 1 of the blueprint above with the encoding C(w) of w, and replace the
low-degree test executed in Step 2 with a local test for C (using the fact that
tensor codes are locally testable [BS06,Vid15]). Then, they execute the sumcheck
of Step 3. (Crucially, this can be done even though V does not have access to
ˆw.) Finally, to perform Step 4, P sends v1, v2, v3 to V (recall that V does not
have ˆw and therefore cannot query these values herself). The parties now need
to engage in an interaction which will prove to V that P sent the correct values
ˆw(i1), ˆw(i2), ˆw(i3). [RR20] show that checking each claim “ ˆw(ij) = vj” reduces
to running (a variant of) the sumcheck protocol on C(w).13
In summary, at a high-level the veriﬁer in the IOP of [RR20] performs a
local test on the high-rate encoding C(w) of the witness, then engages in four
executions of (variants of) the sumcheck protocol. This blueprint is described in
Fig. 1.
Blueprint of an IOP for 3SAT
The IOP is executed between a prover P that has input a 3CNF formula ϕ
on m variables, and a satisfying assignment w ∈{0, 1}m for ϕ, and a veriﬁer
V that has input ϕ. The IOP uses a high-rate binary tensor code C, and uses
the sumcheck protocol as a sub-protocol.
1. P computes the high-rate encoding C(w) of w, and sends it to V.
2. V performs a local test to check that the purported codeword which P
sent is close to C.
3. The prover and veriﬁer engage in the sumcheck protocol to reduce the
claim “w satisﬁes ϕ” to claims “ ˆw(ij) = vj”, j = 1, 2, 3 for random and
independent i1, i2, i3.
4. P sends v1, v2, v3 to V, and for every j ∈{1, 2, 3} the parties engage in a
sumcheck protocol over C(w) to check that ˆw(ij) = vj.
Fig. 1. Blueprint of an IOP for 3SAT using Code Switching [RR20]
Our ZK-IOPs Approaching the Witness Length. Recall that in a t-ZK-IOP, a
(possibly malicious) veriﬁer V∗that makes up to t queries to her oracles should
13 More accurately, they show that this reduces to executing a generalized version of the
sumcheck protocol on C(w), for verifying sums of the form 
i λ(i)·w(i) = α, where
the coeﬃcients λ(i) have a certain tensor structure. In this overview, we mostly ignore
this fact. This will not aﬀect the rest of the overview since everything we describe for
the standard sumcheck protocol naturally extends also to the generalized version.
See the full version for further details.

120
N. Ron-Zewi and M. Weiss
learn nothing about the satisfying assignment w. Considering the blueprint of
[RR20]’s IOP, V∗potentially obtains information about w from: (1) querying
C(w); and (2) messages which P sends in the executions of the sumcheck pro-
tocols on ˆw and C(w). We note that while we can easily overcome (1) by
taking C to be a ZK code, and we can similarly prevent information leak-
age in (2) by using a sumcheck ZK-IOP, existing constructions of sumcheck
ZK-IOPs (discussed in Sect. 2.2 above) either do not have sublinear communi-
cation [BCGV16,BCF+17,BCG+17,BCR+19,CHM+20], or are specialized for
polynomial codes [XZZ+19,BCL22]. The former cannot be used here because
they would lead to communication complexity of at least 2 |w| (because the
prover also sends C(w) which has size ≥|w|). The latter cannot be used because
they do not readily extend to general tensor codes, whereas we execute the sum-
check ZK-IOP on a binary tensor code C of high-rate which is not a polynomial
code.
Equipped with our results on sumcheck ZK-IOPs and on ZK codes from
the previous sections, our short ZK-IOP for 3SAT now follows along the lines
of [RR20]’s IOP for 3SAT (Fig. 1). More speciﬁcally, in Step 1 the prover ﬁrst
generates a randomized encoding ˆw of w via a tensor product of the PRS code
(using the natural randomized encoding function for tensor codes). Then the
prover generates another encoding of w via a tensor product of a high-rate binary
ZK-LTC (whose existence is guaranteed by [ISVW13]), and only sends the latter
encoding to the veriﬁer. Then, in Step 3 we use our specialized sumcheck ZK-
IOP for tensor base codes. Finally, in Step 4 we use our sumcheck ZK-IOP for
general base codes.
Additional Challenges in the Design of our ZK-IOPs. Finally, we point out two
additional challenges that arise in the above high-level approach.
(1) High-Rate Encoding of Randomized Witness: The code switching technique
of [RR20] relied on the fact that any point on the low-degree extension ˆw is a
linear combination 
i λ(i)w(i) of the entries of w ∈{0, 1}m, where the coef-
ﬁcients λ(i) have a certain tensor structure. As mentioned above, the value of
the sum 
i λ(i)w(i) can then be veriﬁed by executing (a scaled version of) the
sumcheck protocol on the encoding C(w) of the same w via another unrelated
tensor code C.
In our ZK-IOP, ˆw is obtained by encoding w via a tensor product of the PRS
code, using a natural randomized encoding function for tensor codes [BCL22]
(some form of randomization is inherent to achieving ZK). To explain the issue
that arises in the randomized setting, consider the special case of 2-dimensional
tensors, where we view the message w as a k×k matrix. The natural randomized
encoding function for tensor codes ﬁrst extends w to a matrix ¯w of size ¯k × ¯k for
¯k > k, by appending random and independent ﬁeld elements in all entries outside
of w, and then ˆw is obtained by encoding ¯w deterministically using the tensor
product of PRS codes. But now to apply the code switching technique, the prover
needs to provide the encoding C( ¯w) of ¯w – whose entries come from a large ﬁeld
– via the binary code C, which if done naively would cause a super-constant

Zero-Knowledge IOPs Approaching Witness Length
121
blowup. (As mentioned above, choosing C to be a binary code is necessary to
guarantee short length in our ZK-IOP for 3SAT.)
To handle this, we choose the large ﬁeld F to be an extension ﬁeld of the
binary ﬁeld, and ﬁnd a novel way to map the message ¯w ∈F¯k×¯k into a binary
message w′ ∈{0, 1}k′×k′, for k′ not much larger than ¯k, and to map the tensor
coeﬃcients λ(i) into other tensor coeﬃcients λ′(i) satisfying the property that

i λ(i) ¯w(i) = 
i λ′(i)w′(i). Consequently, the prover can provide the encoding
of the binary message w′ via the binary code C, and verifying the linear com-
bination 
i λ(i) ¯w(i) reduces to executing the sumcheck protocol on C(w′) with
tensor coeﬃcients λ′(i). (See the full version [RZW24]
for the deﬁnition and
properties of w′ and the coeﬃcients λ′(i).)
(2) Proving ZK of the Combined IOP: Roughly, the ZK property of our sum-
check IOP for tensor base codes guarantees that in Step 3, a (possibly malicious
and unbounded) query-restricted veriﬁer V∗only learns few axis-parallel sub-
spaces of the randomized LDE encoding ˆw. Since LDEs have uniform ZK, this
reveals no information (by our results from Sect. 2.1). Moreover, the ZK property
of our sumcheck IOP for general base codes guarantees that in Step 4, V∗learns
only few rows of C( ˆw), which reveal no information since C is a tensor of a ZK
code (and therefore has ZK against row queries, by our results from Sect. 2.1).
Slightly more accurately, a simulator Sim for the combined system can emulate
multiple executions of the simulator SimΣ for the sumcheck IOP, using the sim-
ulators for C and the LDE to answer SimΣ’s (row/axis-parallel subspace) oracle
queries.
However, the actual proof is more intricate. Indeed, since the IOP for 3SAT
described above involves multiple sequential calls to the internal sumcheck IOPs,
the formal ZK proof requires arguing that ZK is preserved under this sequential
composition. Moreover, the executions of the sumcheck IOPs with a malicious
veriﬁer V∗are in fact interleaved, because V∗may access an oracle message
from an earlier sumcheck IOP execution in a later sumcheck IOP execution. Our
ZK-IOP for sumcheck of Sect. 2.2 possesses the stronger guarantee of black-box
straight-line simulation,14 so it might be tempting to use the black-box, straight-
line nature of the simulator to claim that ZK follows directly from [KLR06].
However, this implication is not immediate because: (1) [KLR06] require
proving ZK with auxiliary inputs; and (2) their result holds in the plain model
(i.e., does not account for settings – such as IOPs – in which parties have oracles).
(1) can be handled by showing that in the IOP setting black-box ZK implies ZK
with auxiliary inputs. This implication is known for standard ZK proofs [GO94].
The result of [GO94] does not account for oracles either, but can be extended
to the IOP setting, as we show in the full version [RZW24]. (2) however is
more problematic. Indeed, the result of [KLR06] is for the more general setting
of concurrent composition of general MPC protocols, and extending it to the
14 Roughly, an IOP has black-box straight-line ZK if there exists a single PPT simulator
Sim that can perfectly simulate the view of any t-restricted veriﬁer V∗, given oracle
access to V∗, and without rewinding the veriﬁer.

122
N. Ron-Zewi and M. Weiss
setting in which parties have oracles seems more complex than proving directly
that the composed IOP for 3SAT has ZK. We therefore chose the latter route.
This required careful bookkeeping because the 3 executions of the sumcheck
protocol of Step 4 all use the same encoding C(w), and so knowledge leaked on
C(w) via these executions may accumulate. This results in a more “correlated”
execution compared to composition of standard ZKPs, and consequently makes
the hybrid proof more involved (requiring a speciﬁc order in which sumcheck
executions and codewords are replaced from real to simulated). However, by
exploiting the perfect ZK property of the our sumcheck ZK-IOPs, and employing
ideas from [KLR06], we were nonetheless able to make the hybrid proof work.
See the full version for further details.
2.4
Open Problems and Future Directions
While the focus of this work is on constructing short ZK-IOPs, we also pro-
vide new techniques for designing ZK variants of the two main building blocks
underlying (ZK-)IOP constructions: tensor codes, and an IOP for the sumcheck
problem. Since these primitives are ubiquitous in designing PCPs and IOPs,
our techniques could potentially be used to improve other eﬃciency measures of
these proof systems, as we now discuss.
Improved ZK-PCP Constructions. ZK incurs little to no overhead in the IOP
setting, with recent ZK-IOP constructions coming close to their non-ZK counter-
parts in most parameters of interest. Unfortunately, as discussed in Sect. 1, this
is not the case in the PCP setting, where ZK-PCPs incur large blowups in the
proof length [KPT97,IW14,IWY16], exponential prover running time [GOS24],
or a large query complexity [IKOS07,HVW21] or adaptivity [KPT97,IW14] of
the honest veriﬁer, compared to non-ZK PCPs.
Our results on tensors of ZK codes could potentially be used to construct
better ZK-PCPs. More speciﬁcally, the witness encoding is a main source of
leakage in PCPs (and IOPs). As discussed in Sect. 1.1, simply replacing the
witness encoding with a ZK encoding does not guarantee ZK when a malicious
veriﬁer might query many codeword symbols compared to the honest veriﬁer.
Our results on tensors of ZK codes show that such tensors are ZK against a
large set of structured queries. Thus, one could potentially achieve ZK in IOPs
and PCPs by devising a code in which veriﬁer queries reduce to such structured
queries.
We stress that while a similar approach of “restricting” the structure of the
veriﬁer’s queries was used before [KPT97,IW14], previous works applied a cryp-
tographic primitive (called a “locking scheme”) on top of the PCP, whereas the
idea here would be to modify the witness encoding while preserving the algebraic
structure of the underlying PCP. Thus, our investigation of properties of tensors
of ZK codes might also lead to better ZK-PCPs whose eﬃciency matches the
best non-ZK PCPs.

Zero-Knowledge IOPs Approaching Witness Length
123
ZK-IOPs with Linear-Time Provers. Our sublinear-communication ZK-IOPs
for sumcheck can be viewed as a derandomization of prior ZK-IOPs for
sumcheck [BCGV16,BCF+16,BCF+17,BCG+17,BCR+19,CHM+20,ZXZS20,
BCL22]. By further exploiting the structure of the sumcheck protocol, the
amount of randomness used in the protocol could potentially be further
reduced, and we may also be able to obtain a ZK sumcheck with improved
prover eﬃciency. This in turn can potentially be used to extend the linear-time
(non-ZK) IOPs of [RR22] in the Boolean circuit model to the ZK setting.
Paper Organization. Section 3 describes some necessary coding preliminaries
(further preliminaries are given in the full version [RZW24]). Our sublinear-
communication sumcheck ZK-IOPs are described in Sect. 4 (see Fig. 3). Our
main result on ZK-IOPs approaching witness length for 3SAT are given in
Sect. 5, including a “bare-bones” version of the protocol (see Fig. 4). The full
constructions, their analysis, and many additional results appear in the full ver-
sion [RZW24]. These include the analysis of our sumcheck ZK-IOPs, including
a version with full-ﬂedged (distributional) ZK for ZK codes; the full ZK-IOP
protocol for 3SAT and its analysis; our results on tensors of ZK codes; and a
survey of related works.
3
Coding Preliminaries
In this section we give some basic coding preliminaries. We assume some famil-
iarity with linear and tensor codes. More extensive preliminaries are given in the
full version [RZW24].
Locally Testable Codes. Intuitively, a code is said to be locally testable if,
given a string w ∈Σn, it is possible to determine whether w is a codeword
of C, or rather far from C, by reading only a small part of w. There are two
variants of LTCs in the literature, “weak” LTCs and “strong” LTCs, where the
main diﬀerence is that weak LTCs are required to reject only words which are
suﬃciently far from C, while strong LTCs are required to reject any word w not
in C with probability proportional to the relative distance of w from C. In this
work, we will work exclusively with strong LTCs, since it is a simpler notion.
We shall also consider an even stronger notion of robust local testing, in which
if w is far from C, then the view of the local tester is far, on average, from an
accepting view.
Deﬁnition 1 (Locally-Testable Code (LTC)). We say that a code C :
Σk →Σn is a (non-adaptive) q-locally testable code ((q, μ)-LTC) if there exists
a randomized oracle algorithm TEST which satisﬁes the following properties:
– Input: TEST gets oracle access to a string w ∈Σn.
– Query phase: TEST picks a random subset I ⊆[n] of size |I| = q, according
to some distribution, and queries w|I.

124
N. Ron-Zewi and M. Weiss
– Decision phase: TEST outputs ψTEST(w|I) for some predicate ψTEST :
Σq →{ACCEPT, REJECT}.
– Completeness: If w is a codeword of C, then TEST accepts with probability
1.
– Soundness: If w is not a codeword of C, then TEST rejects with probability
at least μ · dist(w, C).
We say that C is a (q, μ)-robust locally testable code ((q, μ)-robust LTC) if
there exists a randomized oracle algorithm TEST which satisﬁes the above prop-
erties, except that the soundness condition is replaced with the following robust-
ness condition:
– Robustness: If w is not a codeword of C, then, in expectation, w|I is (μ ·
dist(w, C))-far from ψ−1
TEST(ACCEPT).
We say that the algorithm TEST is a (robust) local tester of C. We say that a
code ensemble C : Σk →Σn is an eﬃcient (q, μ)-LTC (robust (q, μ)-LTC, resp.) if
there is a randomized oracle algorithm that on input 1k, computes a (q, μ)-local
tester (robust (q, μ)-local tester, resp.) for C in time poly(k, log(|Σ|)).
We will need the following theorem on local testability of tensor codes [Vid15].
Theorem 3 (Local Testing of Tensor Codes, [Vid15], Theorems 3.1 and
4.4). Suppose that C : Fk →Fn is a linear code of relative distance δ, and let
d > 1. Let TEST be a local tester for C⊗d, which given a string w ∈F[n]d, picks
a random axis-parallel line ℓ(axis-parallel two-dimensional plane P, resp.) in
[n]d, and accepts if and only if w|ℓis a codeword of C (w|P is a codeword of
C ⊗C, resp.). Then TEST is an (n, δO(d))-local tester ((n2, δO(d))-robust local
tester, resp.) for C⊗d.
Low-Degree Extensions. A special case of tensor codes that will be of par-
ticular interest to us is the low-degree extension, deﬁned as follows.
Lemma 31 (Low-Degree Extension (LDE), [AS98], Theorem 4.1.5). Let
F be a ﬁnite ﬁeld of size n, and identify the elements of F with [n]. For non-
negative integers k ≤n and d, and a function w : [k]d →F, there exists a unique
d-variate polynomial ˆw over F of individual degree k −1 that agrees with w on
[k]d. Moreover, ˆw can be computed in time nO(d).
The polynomial ˆw is called the Low-Degree Extension (LDE) of w. It can be
veriﬁed that the evaluation table of ˆw over F is a codeword in the d-dimensional
tensor product of the Reed-Solomon code RSk,n, deﬁned as follows.
Deﬁnition 2 (Reed-Solomon (RS) Codes, [RS60]). Let F be a ﬁnite ﬁeld
of size n, and identify the elements of F with [n]. Let k ≤n be a non-negative
integer. The (systematic) Reed-Solomon (RS) code RSk,n is a map RSk,n : Fk →
Fn. The encoding of a message m ∈Fk is (fm(i))i∈F, where fm(x) is the unique
univariate polynomial over F of degree at most k −1 which satisﬁes that fm(i) =
m(i) for any i ∈[k]. The punctured Reed-Solomon code PRSk,n is a map PRSk,n :
Fk →Fn−k, where the encoding of a message m ∈Fk is (fm(i))i∈F\[k].

Zero-Knowledge IOPs Approaching Witness Length
125
We shall also need the following lemma which gives a family of “zero-tester
polynomials” for the low-degree extension.
Lemma 32 (“Zero-Tester” Polynomials,[AS98], Theorem 4.2.1.2). Let
F be a ﬁnite ﬁeld of size n, and identify the elements of F with [n]. Let k, d be
non-negative integers so that 8dk < n. Then there exists a family Q of d-variate
polynomials over F of individual degree at most k −1, where |Q| ≤nd, so that
if P : [k]d →F is not identically zero, then
Pr
Q←Q
⎡
⎣
i∈[k]d
Q(i) · P(i) = 0
⎤
⎦≤1
2.
Moreover, the family Q is constructible in time nO(d).
4
A Sublinear-Length ZK-IOP for Sumcheck
In this section we state our results on the existence of a sublinear-length ZK-IOP
for Sumcheck. The main result of this section is stated in Theorem 4. A warmup
for the special case of 2-dimensional tensors is given in Fig. 2 (Sect. 4.1), and the
full ZK-IOP for sumcheck appears in Fig. 3 (Sect. 4.2). Further details, including
a sumcheck ZK-IOP with (average-case) full-ﬂedged ZK for ZK codes, are given
in the full version [RZW24].
Deﬁnition 3 (Sumcheck Relation). Let C : Fk →Fn be a linear code ensem-
ble, and let d ∈N. The sumcheck relation RYES
SChk for C⊗d consists of all tuples of
the form ((λ1, . . . , λd, α), c) such that:
– c = C⊗d(m) for some m ∈F[k]d.
– λ1, . . . , λd ∈Fk.
– ⟨λ1 ⊗· · · ⊗λd, m⟩= α.
Here, (λ1, . . . , λd, α) is the explicit input, and c is the implicit input.
RNO
SChk is deﬁned similarly to RYES
SChk except that tuples ((λ1, . . . , λd, α), c) in
RNO
SChk satisfy that ⟨λ1 ⊗· · · ⊗λd, m⟩̸= α (in particular, c ∈C⊗d).
The sumcheck promise problem for C⊗d is the pair
	
RYES
SChk, RNO
SChk

.
Theorem 4 (Sublinear length ZK-IOP for Sumcheck). The following
holds for any integer d > 1 and constant δ, μ > 0. Let {Fk}k∈N be a constructible
ﬁnite ﬁeld ensemble, and let {Ck : (Fk)k →(Fk)n}k∈N be an explicit linear code
ensemble of relative distance δ that is an eﬃcient (qk, μ)-robust LTC.
Then there exists an interactive oracle proof (P, V) satisfying the following
properties:
– Prover P
′s Input : P receives as input d vectors λ1, . . . , λd ∈(Fk)k, a
scalar α ∈Fk, and a codeword c = (Ck)⊗d(m) ∈(Fk)[n]d.

126
N. Ron-Zewi and M. Weiss
– Veriﬁer V ′s Input : V receives as input λ1, . . . , λd and α, and also receives
oracle access to c.
– Communication phase : P and V interact for d + 2 rounds, where P’s
messages are strings over F, and V’s messages are uniformly random strings.
– Query phase : At the end of the interaction, V computes a uniformly random
point (i1, . . . , id) ∈[n]d (depending only on V’s randomness string), queries
a single ﬁeld element out of P’s ﬁrst message, and fully reads the rest of P’s
messages. She then either accepts, rejects, or outputs (i1, . . . , id) and a scalar
α′ ∈Fk.
– Completeness : If ((λ1, . . . , λd, α), c) ∈RYES
SChk then when V interacts with P,
with probability 1, V either accepts, or outputs (i1, . . . , id) and α′ such that
c(i1, . . . , id) = α′.
– Soundness : If ((λ1, . . . , λd, α), c) ∈RNO
SChk then for any prover strategy P∗,
when V interacts with P∗, then with probability at least min{ δ2·μ2
16 , δd
4 }, V
either rejects, or outputs (i1, . . . , id) and α′ such that c(i1, . . . , id) ̸= α′.
– ZK(General Codes). For any natural t there exists a black-box straight-line
PPT simulator Sim which is ((t + qk + 1), {2, . . . , d})-restricted such that for
every t-restricted veriﬁer V∗, and for every ((λ1, . . . , λd, α), c) ∈RYES
SChk,

ViewSim
V∗((λ1, . . . , λd, α), c) , qS −qk −1

rV ,rSim
≡(ViewV∗((λ1, . . . , λd, α), c) , qV )rP ,rV
where rP , rV , rSim are the random coins of the prover, veriﬁer V∗, and Sim,
respectively; qS denotes the number of queries which Sim makes to its row
oracle; qV denotes the number of queries which V∗makes to her oracles c
and the ﬁrst prover message; and ViewSim
V∗is the view of V when interacting
with Sim.
– ZK(Tensor Codes). If Ck = (Bk)⊗3 for some code Bk, and the robust local
tester is the two-dimensional plane tester given by Theorem 3, then for any
natural t PPT simulator Sim which is adaptive (t+2)-subspace restricted with
respect to the code (Bk)⊗3d such that for every t-restricted veriﬁer V∗, and
for every ((λ1, . . . , λd, α), c) ∈RYES
SChk,

ViewSim
V∗((λ1, . . . , λd, α), c) , qS −2

rV ,rSim
≡(ViewV∗((λ1, . . . , λd, α), c) , qV )rP ,rV (1)
where rP , rV , rSim are the random coins of the prover, veriﬁer V∗, and Sim,
respectively; qS denotes the number of queries which Sim makes to its oracle;
and qV denotes the number of queries which V∗makes to her oracles c and
the ﬁrst prover’s message. Moreover, during the simulation, the subspaces that
Sim chooses for its oracle are in directions [3d] \ {1}, [3d] \ {2}, or [3d] \ {3}.
4.1
Warmup: the 2-Dimensional Case
In this section we describe a special case of our sumcheck ZK-IOP for the 2-
dimensional setting for sums of the form 
i∈[k] m(i) = α (i.e., with no tensor
coeﬃcients). The full protocol is given in Sect. 4.2 below. We begin with a more

Zero-Knowledge IOPs Approaching Witness Length
127
detailed overview of the sumcheck protocol of [RR20], then highlight the diﬀer-
ences introduced in our protocol.
Sumcheck for Tensor Codes of [RR20]. Let C0 : Fk →Fn be a linear base
code, and let C = C0 ⊗C0 be its two-dimensional tensor product. Ron-Zewi and
Rothblum’s sumcheck for a codeword c = C(m) and the claim 
i,j∈[k] m(i, j) =
α (where m(i, j) denotes the entry in row i and column j in m, when viewed as
a k × k matrix), operates as follows:
1. P computes the sum z := 
j∈[k] C0(m(∗, j)) of the columns’ encodings with
the code C0, where m(∗, j) denotes the j’th column of m, when viewed as a
k × k matrix.
Then, P sends z to V as an explicit message, i.e., which V reads in full.
2. V checks that z = C0(y) for some y ∈Fk such that 
i∈[k] y(i) = α, and
rejects otherwise.
▷Notice that by linearity, z = C0(
j∈[k] m(∗, j)), where

i∈[k]

j∈[k]
m(∗, j) =

i,j∈[k]
m(i, j) = α.
3. V samples a random row i0 ←[n] and sends i0 to P.
4. P sends to V the i0th row z′ := c(i0, ∗) of c, where c is viewed as an n × n
matrix.
5. V checks that z′ = C0(y′) for y′ ∈Fk such that 
j∈[k] y′(j) = z(i0).
▷Notice that by the deﬁnition of the encoding function for the tensor product,
c(i0, ∗) = C0(y′) for y′ ∈Fkwhose jth entry is C0(m(∗, j))(i0). Consequently,

j∈[k]
y′(j) =

j∈[k]
C0(m(∗, j))(i0) = z(i0).
6. V samples a random j0 ←[n], queries c(i0, j0), and accepts if and only if
z′(j0) = c(i0, j0).
Our Sumcheck ZK-IOPs with Sublinear Communication. Intuitively, the IOP
of [RR20] reveals to the veriﬁer the sum of columns in c, as well as a single row
of c (when viewed as an n × n matrix). As discussed in Sect. 2.2, we obtain ZK
by masking these with a random codeword in the base code C0. This added mask
requires the veriﬁer to run an additional local test (to verify the mask is close
to the base code). Our ZK-IOP for 2-dimensional sumchecks is given in Fig. 2,
where we mark modiﬁcations over the IOP of [RR20] in red.
4.2
The Full Sumcheck Protocol
Our sumcheck ZK-IOP, used to prove Theorem 4, is given in Fig. 3. The proof
appears in the full version [RZW24].

128
N. Ron-Zewi and M. Weiss
Sublinear-Communication Sumcheck ZK-IOPs
for 2-dimensional Tensor Codes
Let C0 : Fk →Fn be a q-LTC, and C = C0 ⊗C0 : Fk×k →Fn×n. The IOP is
executed between a prover P with input c = C(m) for m ∈Fk×k, and a veriﬁer
V that has input α := 
i,j∈[k] m(i, j) and oracle access to c. The goal is to
verify that c = C(m) for a message m satisfying that 
i,j∈[k] m(i, j) = α.
1. P samples r ←Fk, and sends the oracle message ˆr := C0(r) and the
explicit message β := 
i∈[k] r(i) to V.
▷Let ¯r ∈Fk×k denote the matrix whose ﬁrst column is r, and all other
entries are 0, and let R := C(¯r).
2. V runs the local tester of C0 to obtain a set I ⊆[n] , |I| = q of queries,
and sends I to P. P then sends v := ˆr|I to V, and V checks that the local
tester accepts v, and checks consistency of v with ˆr at a random point. If
one of the tests fails then V rejects.
3. V picks γ ←F and sends γ to P.
Both parties locally set c′ := γ · c + R = C(γ · m + ¯r).
4. P computes z := 
j∈[k] C0(γ · m(∗, j) + ¯r(∗, j)). Then, P sends z to V as
an explicit message.
5. V checks that z = C0(y) for some y ∈Fk such that 
i∈[k] y(i) = γ · α + β,
and rejects otherwise.
6. V samples a random row i0 ←[n] and sends i0 to P.
7. P sends to V the i0th row z′ := c′(i0, ∗).
8. V checks that z′ = C0(y′) for y′ ∈Fk such that 
j∈[k] y′(j) = z(i0).
9. V samples a random j0 ←[n], queries c(i0, j0) and ˆr(i0), and accepts if
and only if z′(j0) = γ · c(i0, j0) + C0(ˆr(i0), 0, . . . , 0)(j0).
Fig. 2. Sumcheck ZK-IOP for 2-Dimensional Tensor Codes (Special Case of Fig. 3)
5
ZK-IOPs for 3SAT Whose Length Approaches
the Witness Length
In this section, we state our result on the existence of ZK-IOP for 3SAT whose
length approaches the witness length, and give a “bare-bones” description of the
protocol. The full protocol is given in the full version [RZW24].
Theorem 5 (ZK-IOP for 3-SAT). For any constant β, γ > 0, there exists a
constant-round pre-processing IOP (P, V) for 3-SAT on n variables of constant
soundness error, which satisﬁes the following:
– The prover’s ﬁrst message is a binary string of length (1 + γ) · n, and the rest
of the prover’s messages are strings of length nβ over some ﬁnite ﬁeld F of
size 2s for s = O(log n).
– The veriﬁer queries a constant number of bits from the ﬁrst prover’s mes-
sage, queries a constant number of ﬁeld elements from the rest of the prover’s
oracles, and reads the rest of the prover’s messages in full.

Zero-Knowledge IOPs Approaching Witness Length
129
Sublinear-Length Sumcheck ZK-IOP
• Explicit input: λ1, . . . , λd ∈Fk and α ∈F.
• Implicit input: A codeword c = C⊗d(m) ∈F[n]d, where m ∈F[k]d.
▷Let k′ := kd−1, n′ := nd−1, C′ := C⊗(d−1), and λ′ := λ2 ⊗· · · ⊗λd. In what follows,
we view c as a codeword in C ⊗C′, where the goal is to verify that ⟨λ1 ⊗λ′, m⟩= α.
Without loss of generality, assume that λ′(1) ̸= 0.
1. Masking the tested codeword c.
(a) P samples r ←Fk, and sends β := λ′(1) 
i∈[k] λ1(i) · r(i) ∈F and the oracle
u := C(r) ∈Fn to V.
▷Let ¯r ∈Fk×k′ denote the matrix whose ﬁrst column is r, and the rest of its
entries are all zero, and let R := (C ⊗C′)(¯r).
(b) Local testing of the mask.
i. V runs the query phase of the robust local tester TEST for the code C, but
instead of making the queries, V sends the query set I ⊆[n] of size |I| = q
to P.
ii. P sends v := u|I : I →F to V.
iii. V checks that ψTEST(v) = ACCEPT; If not, then it rejects and aborts.
iv. V picks a uniform random point i ∈I, queries u(i), and checks that u(i) =
v(i); If not, then it rejects and aborts.
(c) V samples γ ←F and sends γ to P.
2. Sumcheck over the random linear combination. The parties now engage in a
protocol whose goal is to verify that

i∈[k],j∈[k′]
λ1(i) · λ′(j) · (γ · m(i, j) + ¯r(i, j)) = γ · α + β.
(a) P computes
z :=

j∈[k′]
λ′(j) · C(γ · m(∗, j) + ¯r(∗, j))
= λ′(1) · u + γ

j∈[k′]
λ′(j) · C(m(∗, j)) ∈Fn
and sends z to V.
(b) V queries β, and checks that z
=
C(y) for y
∈
Fk which satisﬁes that

i∈[k] λ1(i) · y(i) = γ · α + β. If not, then V rejects and aborts.
(c) V picks a random i1 ←[n], and sends i1 to P.
3. Restricting to a row.
(a) P and V engage in the (non zero-knowledge) IOP for sumcheck of [RR19, Lemma
6.1] with the explicit input λ2, . . . , λd ∈Fk and z(i1) ∈F and the implicit input
c′ := γ · c(i1, ∗) + R(i1, ∗) ∈C⊗(d−1). If V′ rejects, then V rejects and aborts;
Otherwise, let (i2, . . . , id) ∈[n]d−1 and α′ ∈F be the output of this protocol.
(b) V queries u(i1), and computes σ := (C′(u(i1), 0, . . . , 0))(i2, . . . , id) ∈F.
(c)
i. If γ = 0 and σ ̸= α′, then V outputs reject.
ii. Otherwise, if γ = 0 and σ = α′, then V outputs accept.
iii. Otherwise, V outputs (i1, . . . , id) and α′′ := (α′ −σ)/γ.
Fig. 3. Sublinear-Length ZK-IOP for Sumcheck
– There exists a constant β′ > 0, so that the IOP has ZK against any malicious
veriﬁer that reads at most nβ′ entries from each prover’s oracle, and reads
the rest of the prover’s messages in full.

130
N. Ron-Zewi and M. Weiss
ZK-IOP for 3SAT - Bare-Bones Protocol
– Prover P’s input: A satisﬁable 3-CNF formula ϕ with n := kd variables for
some integer d > 1, and a satisfying assignment w ∈{0, 1}[k]d for ϕ.
– Veriﬁer V’s input: The 3-CNF ϕ.
1. Parameters. Let k1, k2, n1, n2 ∈N such that k < k1 < k2 (the exact value of
these parameters is set in the full version [RZW24]), and let F be a suﬃciently
large ﬁnite ﬁeld. Let C2 : {0, 1}k2 →{0, 1}n2 be a high-rate ZK-LTC, and let
C1 : F(3k1)9 →Fn9
1 be C1 := PRS⊗9
3k1,n1.
2. Witness Encodings. The prover generates two randomized encodings of the
witness w:
(a) Low-Rate Encoding. (This encoding is never sent to V.)
i. P generates a randomized low-degree extension ˆw1 of w.
ii. Let ˆIϕ be the low-degree extension of the function Iϕ : [k]3d+3 →{0, 1}
which is 1 if and only if the clause xi1 = b1 ∨xi2 = b2 ∨xi3 = b3 exists
in ϕ.
iii. Arithmetization of ϕ: let
Pϕ,w1 (i1, i2, i3, b1, b2, b3) := ˆIϕ (i1, i2, i3, b1, b2, b3)·Π3
j=1 ( ˆw1(ij) −bj) .
iv. Let Q be sampled uniformly at random by V, out of the family of zero-
tester polynomials given by Lemma 32. V sends Q to P, who computes
P (i1, i2, i3, b1, b2, b3) := Q (i1, i2, i3, b1, b2, b3)·Pϕ,w1 (i1, i2, i3, b1, b2, b3) .
v. The low-rate encoding of w is the codeword c1 = C⊗(d+1)/3
1
(w3) ∈
(PRS3k1,n1)⊗(3d+3), where w3 is the evaluation table of P on [3k1]3d+3.
(b) High-Rate Encoding. P generates a randomized C2-encoding c2 of ˆw1,
and sends c2 to V.
3. Local Testing of c2. V runs the local tester of C2 on c2.
4. Sumcheck over LDE – Checking that ϕ ∈3 −SAT. P and V exe-
cute the sumcheck ZK-IOP (Pin, Vin), given by Theorem 4 (version for tensor
codes) on c1 with input α. If Vin accepts or rejects, then V does the same
and aborts; Otherwise, the outcome of this execution is an evaluation point
(i1, i2, i3, b1, b2, b3) ∈(F \ [3k1])3d+3 and a value α′ ∈F.
5. Sumcheck
over
High-Rate
Encoding
–
Checking
value
of
P (i1, i2, i3, b1, b2, b3). Recall that P (i1, i2, i3, b1, b2, b3) can be generated from
ˆw1(i1), ˆw1(i2), and ˆw1(i3). In the next step, V and P engage in the sumcheck
ZK-IOP (P′
in, V′
in) given by Theorem 4 (version for general codes) on c2 with
input αj. If V′
in rejects, or the outcome of this execution is i′
j ∈[n2]d, α′
j ∈F,
such that c2(i′
j) ̸= α′
j, then V rejects and aborts.
6. Output. V queries ˆIϕ(i1, i2, i3, b1, b2, b3) and Q(i1, i2, i3, b1, b2, b3), and accepts
if and only if
Q (i1, i2, i3, b1, b2, b3) · ˆIϕ (i1, i2, i3, b1, b2, b3) · Π3
j=1 (αj −bj) = α′.
Fig. 4. A “Bare-Bones” Description of the ZK-IOP for 3SAT
– The veriﬁer’s running time is nO(β), after a local preprocessing step of running
time poly(n). The prover’s running time is poly(n), given a witness, and a
generating matrix for the ZK-LTC C2.

Zero-Knowledge IOPs Approaching Witness Length
131
5.1
High-Level Overview of the Protocol
In this section we give a high-level overview of our full ZK-IOP for 3SAT.
Prior Techniques in (Zero-Knowledge) PCP and IOP Design
Arithmetization: Representing 3-SAT Formulas as Polynomials. Let ϕ be a 3-
CNF formula with n variables, and let w ∈{0, 1}n be a satisfying assignment
for ϕ. We follow the standard paradigm of representing ϕ and w as multi-variate
low-degree polynomials [BFL91,BFLS91,Sud00]. Speciﬁcally, let k, d ∈N be
such that kd = ⌈n⌉, where d is a suﬃciently large constant, and where we
identify [n] with [k]d. Let F be a ﬁnite ﬁeld of size |F| = Θ(k) > k, where we
identify [k] with some ﬁxed subset of F. We replace the claim that ϕ is satisﬁable
with the claim that the following (3d + 3)-variate polynomial over F
Pϕ,w (i1, i2, i3, b1, b2, b3) = ˆIϕ (i1, i2, i3, b1, b2, b3) · Π3
j=1 ( ˆw (ij) −bj)
vanishes on [k]3d+3, where ˆw is the LDE encoding of w and ˆIϕ is the LDE
encoding of the function Iϕ : [k]3d+3 →{0, 1} such that for every i1, i2, i3 ∈[k]d
and every b1, b2, b3 ∈[k], Iϕ (i1, i2, i3, b1, b2, b3) = 1 if and only if the clause
(xi1 = b1) ∨(xi2 = b2) ∨(xi3 = b3) appears in ϕ. Checking that Pϕ,w vanishes
on [k]3d+3 reduces to checking that a related (3d + 3)-variate polynomial P of
individual degree at most 3k sums to 0 on [k]3d+3 (see Lemma 32).
The process of representing the satisfying assignment w as a polynomial P –
known as arithmetization – is precisely the reason that the LDE encoding is so
useful in designing proof systems: it enables to uniquely represent any string, such
that verifying whether w satisﬁes ϕ reduces to checking the sum of a polynomial
on a subcube. Similar to other PCPs/IOPs, the high-level idea is then to use a
sumcheck procedure to verify that P indeed sums to 0 on [k]3d+3. The sumcheck
procedure exploits a diﬀerent viewpoint of the polynomial P, as we now explain.
Polynomial View vs. Tensor View. The arithmetization described above deﬁnes
the encoding P of w in terms of polynomials. However, to verify that P indeed
sums to 0 on [k]3d+3, it is more useful to adopt a coding/tensor view of P. Specif-
ically, notice that the truth table of P on F3d+3 can be viewed as a codeword
c1 ∈RS⊗(3d+3). Viewing the truth table of P as a Reed-Solomon (RS) codeword
c1, we can use the sumcheck ZK-IOP of Theorem 4 to verify that P sums to 0 on
[k]3d+3. This would require the veriﬁer to query points on c1. In fact, it suﬃces
for V to have oracle access to ˆw, since V can locally compute any point of c1
by querying 3 points of ˆw. However, the length overhead incurred by the RS
encoding is too large, and we cannot aﬀord to send the oracle ˆw to the veriﬁer.
Using Both Low-Rate and High-Rate Encodings (a-la [RR20]). This problem was
solved by Ron-Zewi and Rothblum [RR20] (inspired by [Mei13]) using the so-
called code-switching technique. Roughly, in Ron-Zewi and Rothblum’s IOPs the
prover P sends to V an encoding c2 of w, generated using a high-rate binary

132
N. Ron-Zewi and M. Weiss
tensor code (C2)⊗d. Since (C2)⊗d has high rate, we can aﬀord to send w2 to
the veriﬁer. Crucially, one can verify the value of any point on ˆw by executing a
sumcheck over c2. The fact that (C2)⊗d is a tensor code guarantees that it is both
locally testable and sumcheckable. In summary, the high-level idea of [RR20] is
for P, V to execute (a scaled version of) the sumcheck over the low-rate encoding
c1, which results in a point i and a value α. Let i1, i2, i3 be such that c1(i) can
be generated from ˆw(i1), ˆw(i2), ˆw(i3). Then P sends αj := ˆw(ij), 1 ≤j ≤3 to V,
and the parties then engage in a sumcheck over c2 to check the purported values
of ˆw(ij), 1 ≤j ≤3.
Obtaining Zero-Knowledge: Randomized (and Punctured) LDE. Another issue
which arises when designing ZK-IOPs, which is orthogonal to the eﬃciency issue
discussed in the previous paragraph (i.e., that we cannot aﬀord to send the LDE
to V), is the fact that the LDE encoding ˆw itself reveals non-trivial information
on w. This issue was addressed already in [BCGV16], who replace the unique
LDE encoding ˆw with a randomized version of this encoding, generated by apply-
ing the standard LDE encoding to a randomly padded version w1 of w. We addi-
tionally take the base code C2 of the tensor code (C2)⊗d to be a high-rate binary
ZK code, and let c2 be the encoding of a randomized version w2 of w1 via the
code (C2)⊗d, to guarantee that c2 does not leak information about w.
It is important to notice that using a randomized LDE encoding and a ZK
code C2 still does not prevent information leakage, even to the honest veriﬁer.
More speciﬁcally, the veriﬁer can learn non-trivial information about the witness
w via (1) direct queries to the LDE encoding ˆw1, or (2) from information leaked
in the sumcheck protocols for c1 and c2. To see why (1) is problematic, notice that
even though V does not have access to ˆw1, the prover does send ˆw1(ij), 1 ≤j ≤3
to her after the sumcheck protocol on c1. If, for example, the sumcheck veriﬁer
Vin outputs a point (i1, i2, i3, b1, b2, b3) on c1 such that, e.g., i1, i2, i3 ∈[k]d, then
V learns a non-trivial function of w(i1), w(i2), w(i3). Similar to prior works, we
prevent this information leakage by using a punctured version of the RS code
in which codewords contain only evaluations of the (polynomial deﬁned by the)
message in F \ [k].
New Techniques for ZK Proofs Approaching the Witness Length. We
now explain how to handle (2), i.e., information leaked via the sumcheck protocol.
As explained in Sect. 2.2, prior works used a sumcheck ZK-IOP with a strong ZK
guarantee that was achieved by fully masking the checked codeword. Combining
such a sumcheck ZK-IOP with a ZK code seamlessly ensured ZK. However, we
cannot aﬀord to fully mask the sumchecked codewords, and instead use our
sumcheck ZK-IOP of Sect. 4, which have an additive loss in the ZK parameter
due to local testing.
Consequently, to get ZK against t-restricted veriﬁers, the base code of the
tensor product should have ZK against (t + q)-restricted veriﬁers, where q is the
query complexity of the local tester for the code. Thus, obtaining a non-trivial
ZK guarantee necessitates that the underlying base code be a ZK-LTC. This

Zero-Knowledge IOPs Approaching Witness Length
133
requirement of the code used in the sumcheck ZK-IOP was not needed in prior
works due to the use of a sumcheck IOP with stronger ZK guarantees (which,
however, inherently did not have sublinear communication).
To deal with the above, we choose the base code C2 to be the ZK-LTC given
in [ISVW13] (which can be constructed probabilistically). Unfortunately, the
ZK-LTC requirement turns out to be problematic for the low-rate code. Indeed,
our IOP construction (as well as many works in the ﬁeld of PCPs and IOPs) cru-
cially relies on the properties of the LDE encoding, namely its polynomial view
discussed above. This view is inherently tied to the speciﬁc encoding procedure
used to map a message w into a codeword c1. Consequently, we cannot apply
the transformation of [ISVW13] (which adds a ZK guarantee to any linear code)
since it modiﬁes the encoding procedure (while keeping the set of codewords
in tact). Thus, the only hope is that the PRS code (with the speciﬁc encoding
procedure discussed above) is a ZK-LTC. Unfortunately, this is not the case, as
discussed in Sect. 2.1. Our solution is to take a diﬀerent route altogether, com-
bining our specialized sumcheck ZK-IOP for tensor base codes with a view of c1
in a tensor of the base code C1 = PRS⊗9 (instead of having the base code be
just PRS).
Bookkeeping Dimensions: “Correctly” Mapping ˆw1 Into c1. Employing the spe-
cialized sumcheck ZK-IOP for tensor codes introduces a new problem. Indeed,
the smaller loss in the ZK parameter in the specialized sumcheck ZK-IOP comes
at the price that the sumcheck veriﬁer Vin might now learn hyperplanes of c1,
when viewed as a codeword of B⊗(d+1) = PRS⊗(3d+3). Thus, to get ZK we must
guarantee that full hyperplanes of c1 reveal no information on w. This should be
contrasted with previous works, where fully masking the sumchecked codeword
guaranteed that Vin learns only few points on c1, which translate to few points on
ˆw1, regardless of how points on ˆw1 are mapped to points on c1. Luckily, because
PRS has uniform ZK, we show that tensors of PRS (in particular, ˆw1) have ZK
against adversaries reading hyperplanes. Therefore, it suﬃces to ensure that a
hyperplane of c1 translates into few hyperplanes of ˆw1. For this, we carefully
map the dimensions of the three values of ˆw1 – used to deﬁne each value of c1 –
to the dimensions of c1.
Code Switching with ZK Codes. We complete the overview by reminding the
reader of a ﬁnal technical issue which arises when applying the code switching
technique over ZK codes (cf. Section 2.3). The code switching technique of [RR20]
relied on the fact that any point in the LDE ˆw is a linear combination 
i λ(i)w(i)
of the entries of the witness w ∈{0, 1}[k]d, where the coeﬃcients λ(i) have
a certain tensor structure. In our ZK-IOP, ˆw1 encodes the randomized w1, so
naively applying the code switching technique requires the prover to provide the
encoding (C2)⊗d(w1) of w1, whose entries come from a large ﬁeld, via the binary
code (C2)⊗d. We handle this by choosing F to be an extension ﬁeld of the binary
ﬁeld, and devising a novel way to map the message w1 into a slightly longer binary
message w2, and to map the tensor coeﬃcients λ(i) into other tensor coeﬃcients
λ′(i) such that 
i λ(i)w1(i) = 
i λ′(i)w2(i). We further incorporate into w2

134
N. Ron-Zewi and M. Weiss
also fresh randomness not used in the generation of w1 to guarantee that the
encoding of w2 via (C2)⊗d would be ZK.
Acknowledgments. The ﬁrst author is supported by the Milgrom family grant for
Collaboration between the Technion and University of Haifa, by ISF grant 735/20, and
by the European Union (ERC, ECCC, 101076663). Views and opinions expressed are
however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reﬂect those of the European
Union or the European Research Council. Neither the European Union nor the granting
authority can be held responsible for them. The second author is supported by the BIU
Center for Research in Applied Cryptography and Cyber Security in conjunction with
the Israel National Cyber Bureau in the Prime Minister’s Oﬃce.
References
[ALM+92] Arora, S., Lund, C., Motwani, R., Sudan, M., Szegedy, M.: Proof veri-
ﬁcation and hardness of approximation problems. In: FOCS, pp. 14–23
(1992)
[ALM+98] Arora, S., Lund, C., Motwani, R., Sudan, M., Szegedy, M.: Proof ver-
iﬁcation and intractability of approximation problems. J. ACM 45(3),
501–555 (1998)
[AS92] Arora, S., Safra, S.: Probabilistic checking of proofs; A new characteriza-
tion of NP. In: FOCS, pp. 2–13 (1992)
[AS98] Arora, S., Safra, S.: Probabilistic checkable proofs: a new characterization
of NP. J. ACM 45(1), 70–122 (1998)
[BBHR18] Ben-Sasson, E., Bentov, I., Horesh, Y., Riabzev, M.: Fast Reed-Solomon
interactive oracle proofs of proximity. In: ICALP, pp. 14:1–14:17 (2018)
[BBHR19] Ben-Sasson, E., Bentov, I., Horesh, Y., Riabzev, M.: Scalable zero knowl-
edge with no trusted setup. In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio, D. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2019. LNCS, vol. 11694, pp. 701–732. Springer, Cham (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-26954-8 23
[BCF+16] Ben-Sasson, E., Chiesa, A., Forbes, M.A., Gabizon, A., Riabzev, M.,
Spooner, N.: On probabilistic checking in perfect zero knowledge. Elec-
tron. Colloquium Comput. Complex. TR16-156 (2016)
[BCF+17] Ben-Sasson, E., Chiesa, A., Forbes, M.A., Gabizon, A., Riabzev, M.,
Spooner, N.: Zero knowledge protocols from succinct constraint detec-
tion. In: Kalai, Y., Reyzin, L. (eds.) TCC 2017, Part II. LNCS, vol. 10678,
pp. 172–206. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
70503-3 6
[BCG+17] Ben-Sasson, E., Chiesa, A., Gabizon, A., Riabzev, M., Spooner, N.: Inter-
active oracle proofs with constant rate and query complexity. In: ICALP,
pp. 40:1–40:15 (2017)
[BCG20] Bootle, J., Chiesa, A., Groth, J.: Linear-time arguments with sublinear
veriﬁcation from tensor codes. In: Pass, R., Pietrzak, K. (eds.) TCC 2020.
LNCS, vol. 12551, pp. 19–46. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-64378-2 2
[BCGV16] Ben-Sasson, E., Chiesa, A., Gabizon, A., Virza, M.: Quasi-linear size zero
knowledge from linear-algebraic PCPs. In: Kushilevitz, E., Malkin, T.
(eds.) TCC 2016, Part II. LNCS, vol. 9563, pp. 33–64. Springer, Heidel-
berg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-49099-0 2

Zero-Knowledge IOPs Approaching Witness Length
135
[BCL20] Bootle, J., Chiesa, A., Liu, S.: Zero-knowledge IOPs with linear-time
prover and polylogarithmic-time veriﬁer. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Report 2020/1527 (2020). https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/1527
[BCL22] Bootle, J., Chiesa, A., Liu, S.: Zero-knowledge IOPs with linear-time
prover and polylogarithmic-time veriﬁer. In: Dunkelman, O., Dziem-
bowski, S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2022. LNCS, vol. 13276, pp. 275–304.
Springer, Cham (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-07085-3 10
[BCR+19] Ben-Sasson, E., Chiesa, A., Riabzev, M., Spooner, N., Virza, M., Ward,
N.P.: Aurora: transparent succinct arguments for R1CS. In: Ishai, Y.,
Rijmen, V. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2019. LNCS, vol. 11476, pp. 103–128.
Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-17653-2 4
[BCS16] Ben-Sasson, E., Chiesa, A., Spooner, N.: Interactive oracle proofs. In: Hirt,
M., Smith, A. (eds.) TCC 2016. LNCS, vol. 9986, pp. 31–60. Springer,
Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53644-5 2
[BFL91] Babai, L., Fortnow, L., Lund, C.: Non-deterministic exponential time has
two-prover interactive protocols. Comput. Complex. 1, 3–40 (1991)
[BFLS91] Babai, L., Fortnow, L., Levin, L., Szegedy, M.: Checking computations in
polylogarithmic time. In: STOC, pp. 21–31 (1991)
[BGH+05] Ben-Sasson, E., Goldreich, O., Harsha, P., Sudan, M., Vadhan, S.: Short
PCPs veriﬁable in polylogarithmic time. In: CCC, pp. 120–134 (2005)
[BGKS20] Ben-Sasson, E., Goldberg, L., Kopparty, S., Saraf, S.: DEEP-FRI: sam-
pling outside the box improves soundness. In: ITCS, pp. 5:1–5:32 (2020)
[BGW88] Ben-Or, M., Goldwasser, S., Wigderson, A.: Completeness theorems
for non-cryptographic fault-tolerant distributed computation (extended
abstract). In: STOC, pp. 1–10 (1988)
[BKK+16] Ben-Sasson, E., Kaplan, Y., Kopparty, S., Meir, Or., Stichtenoth, H.: Con-
stant rate PCPs for circuit-SAT with sublinear query complexity. J. ACM
63(4), 32:1–32:57 (2016)
[BS06] Ben-Sasson, E., Sudan, M.: Robust locally testable codes and products of
codes. Random Struct. Alg. 28(4), 387–402 (2006)
[CDM00] Cramer, R., Damg˚ard, I., Maurer, U.M.: General secure multi-party com-
putation from any linear secret-sharing scheme. In: Preneel, B. (ed.)
EUROCRYPT 2000. LNCS, vol. 1807, pp. 316–334. Springer, Heidelberg
(2000). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-45539-6 22
[CHM+20] Chiesa, A., Hu, Y., Maller, M., Mishra, P., Vesely, N., Ward, N.: Marlin:
preprocessing zkSNARKs with universal and updatable SRS. In: Can-
teaut, A., Ishai, Y. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2020, Part I. Lecture Notes
in Computer Science, vol. 12105, pp. 738–768. Springer, Cham (2020).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-45721-1 26
[Din07] Dinur, I.: The PCP theorem by gap ampliﬁcation. J. ACM 54(3), 12
(2007)
[FS11] Fortnow, L., Santhanam, R.: Infeasibility of instance compression and
succinct PCPs for NP. J. Comput. Syst. Sci. 77(1), 91–106 (2011)
[GKR15] Goldwasser, S., Kalai, Y.T., Rothblum, G.N.: Delegating computation:
interactive proofs for muggles. J. ACM 62(4):27:1–27:64 (2015)
[GLS+23] Golovnev, A., Lee, J., Setty, S., Thaler, J., Wahby, R.S.: Brakedown:
linear-time and ﬁeld-agnostic SNARKs for R1CS. In: Handschuh, H.,
Lysyanskaya, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2023, Part II. Lecture Notes in Com-
puter Science, vol. 14082, pp. 193–226. Springer, Cham (2023). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-38545-2 7

136
N. Ron-Zewi and M. Weiss
[GMR85] Goldwasser, S., Micali, S., Rackoﬀ, C.: The knowledge complexity of inter-
active proof-systems (extended abstract). In: STOC, pp. 291–304 (1985)
[GO94] Goldreich, O., Oren, Y.: Deﬁnitions and properties of zero-knowledge
proof systems. J. Cryptol. 7(1), 1–32 (1994)
[GOS24] Gur, T., O’Connor, J., Spooner, N.: Perfect zero-knowledge PCPs for
#P. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2024/462 (to appear at STOC‘24)
(2024). http://eprint.iacr.org/2024/462
[HVW21] Hazay, C., Venkitasubramaniam, M., Weiss, M.: ZK-PCPs from leakage-
resilient secret sharing. In: ITC, pp. 6:1–6:21 (2021)
[IKOS07] Ishai, Y., Kushilevitz, E., Ostrovsky, R., Sahai, A.: Zero-knowledge from
secure multiparty computation. In: STOC, pp. 21–30 (2007)
[ISVW13] Ishai, Y., Sahai, A., Viderman, M., Weiss, M.: Zero knowledge LTCs and
their applications. In: Raghavendra, P., Raskhodnikova, S., Jansen, K.,
Rolim, J.D.P. (eds.) APPROX RANDOM 2013. LNCS, vol. 8096, pp.
607–622. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-
40328-6 42
[IW14] Ishai, Y., Weiss, M.: Probabilistically checkable proofs of proximity with
zero-knowledge. In: Lindell, Y. (ed.) TCC 2014. LNCS, vol. 8349, pp.
121–145. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-
54242-8 6
[IWY16] Ishai, Y., Weiss, M., Yang, G.: Making the best of a leaky situation:
zero-knowledge PCPs from leakage-resilient circuits. In: Kushilevitz, E.,
Malkin, T. (eds.) TCC 2016, Part II. Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
vol. 9563, pp. 3–32. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-662-49099-0 1
[Kil92] Kilian, J.: A note on eﬃcient zero-knowledge proofs and arguments. In:
STOC, pp. 723–732 (1992)
[KLR06] Kushilevitz, E., Lindell, Y., Rabin, T.: Information-theoretically secure
protocols and security under composition. : STOC, pp. 109–118. ACM
(2006)
[KPT97] Kilian, J., Petrank, E., Tardos, G.: Probabilistically checkable proofs with
zero knowledge. In: STOC, pp. 496–505 (1997)
[KR08] Kalai, Y.T., Raz, R.: Interactive PCP. In: ICALP, pp. 536–547 (2008)
[LFKN92] Lund, C., Fortnow, L., Karloﬀ, H.J., Nisan, N.: Algebraic methods for
interactive proof systems. J. ACM 39(4), 859–868 (1992)
[Mei13] Meir, O.: IP = PSPACE using error-correcting codes. SIAM J. Comput.
42(1), 380–403 (2013)
[Mei14] Meir, O.: Combinatorial PCPs with eﬃcient veriﬁers. Comput. Complex.
23(3), 355–478 (2014)
[Mic00] Micali, S.: Computationally sound proofs. SIAM J. Comput. 30(4), 1253–
1298 (2000)
[Ran13] Randriambololona, H.: An upper bound of singleton type for component-
wise products of linear codes. IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 59(12), 7936–7939
(2013)
[RR19] Ron-Zewi, N, Rothblum, R.: Local proofs approaching the witness length.
Electronint Colloquium on Computational Complexity TR19-127, Revi-
sion 2 (2019)
[RR20] Ron-Zewi, N., Rothblum, R.D.: Local proofs approaching the witness
length [extended abstract]. In: FOCS, pp. 846–857 (2020)
[RR22] Ron-Zewi, N., Rothblum, R.: Proving as fast as computing: succinct argu-
ments with constant prover overhead. In: STOC, pp. 1353–1363 (2022)

Zero-Knowledge IOPs Approaching Witness Length
137
[RRR17] Reingold, O., Rothblum, G.N., Rothblum, R.D.: Personal Communication
(2017)
[RS60] Reed, I.S., Solomon, G.: Polynomial codes over certain ﬁnite ﬁelds. SIAM
J. Soc. Ind. Appl. Math. 8(2), 300–304 (1960)
[RS96] Rubinfeld, R., Sudan, M.: Robust characterization of polynomials with
applications to program testing. SIAM J. Comput. 25(2), 252–271 (1996)
[RZW24] Ron-Zewi, N., Weiss, M.: Zero-knowledge IOPs approaching witness
length. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2024/816 (2024). http://
eprint.iacr.org/2024/816
[Set20] Setty, S.: Spartan: eﬃcient and general-purpose zkSNARKs without
trusted setup. In: Micciancio, D., Ristenpart, T. (eds.) CRYPTO 2020,
Part III. LNCS, vol. 12172, pp. 704–737. Springer, Cham (2020). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-56877-1 25
[Sud00] Sudan, M.: Probabilistically checkable proofs - lecture notes (2000).
http://madhu.seas.harvard.edu/MIT/pcp/pcp.ps
[Vid15] Viderman, M.: A combination of testability and decodability by tensor
products. Random Struct. Alg. 46(3), 572–598 (2015)
[XZS22] Xie, T., Zhang, Y., Song, D.: Orion: zero knowledge proof with linear
prover time. In: Dodis, Y., Shrimpton, T. (eds.) Advances in Cryptol-
ogy - CRYPTO 2022. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 13510,
pp. 299–328. Springer, Cham (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-
15985-5 11
[XZZ+19] Xie, T., Zhang, J., Zhang, Y., Papamanthou, C., Song, D.: Libra: succinct
zero-knowledge proofs with optimal prover computation. In: Boldyreva,
A., Micciancio, D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019. LNCS, vol. 11694, pp. 733–764.
Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-26954-8 24
[ZXZS20] Zhang, J., Xie, T., Zhang, Y., Song, D.: Transparent polynomial delega-
tion and its applications to zero knowledge proof. In: S&P, pp. 859–876
(2020)

