A PCP Theorem for Interactive Proofs
and Applications
Gal Arnon1(B), Alessandro Chiesa2, and Eylon Yogev3
1 Weizmann Institute, Rehovot, Israel
gal.arnon@weizmann.ac.il
2 EPFL, Lausanne, Switzerland
alessandro.chiesa@epfl.ch
3 Bar-Ilan University, Ramat Gan, Israel
eylon.yogev@biu.ac.il
Abstract. The celebrated PCP Theorem states that any language in
NP can be decided via a veriﬁer that reads O(1) bits from a polynomi-
ally long proof. Interactive oracle proofs (IOP), a generalization of PCPs,
allow the veriﬁer to interact with the prover for multiple rounds while
reading a small number of bits from each prover message. While PCPs
are relatively well understood, the power captured by IOPs (beyond NP)
has yet to be fully explored.
We present a generalization of the PCP theorem for interactive lan-
guages. We show that any language decidable by a k(n)-round IP has
a k(n)-round public-coin IOP, where the veriﬁer makes its decision by
reading only O(1) bits from each (polynomially long) prover message and
O(1) bits from each of its own (random) messages to the prover.
Our result and the underlying techniques have several applications.
We get a new hardness of approximation result for a stochastic satis-
ﬁability problem, we show IOP-to-IOP transformations that previously
were known to hold only for IPs, and we formulate a new notion of PCPs
(index-decodable PCPs) that enables us to obtain a commit-and-prove
SNARK in the random oracle model for nondeterministic computations.
Keywords: Interactive proofs · Probabilistically checkable proofs ·
Interactive oracle proofs
G. Arnon—Supported in part by a grant from the Israel Science Foundation (no.
2686/20) and by the Simons Foundation Collaboration on the Theory of Algorithmic
Fairness.
A. Chiesa—Funded by the Ethereum Foundation.
E. Yogev—Part of this project was performed when Eylon Yogev was in Tel Aviv
University where he was funded by the ISF grants 484/18, 1789/19, Len Blavatnik and
the Blavatnik Foundation, and The Blavatnik Interdisciplinary Cyber Research Center
at Tel Aviv University.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
O. Dunkelman and S. Dziembowski (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2022, LNCS 13276, pp. 64–94, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-07085-3_3

A PCP Theorem for Interactive Proofs and Applications
65
1
Introduction
Probabilistic proofs play a central role in complexity theory and cryptography.
In the past decades, probabilistic proofs have become powerful and versatile
tools in these ﬁelds, leading to breakthroughs in zero-knowledge, delegation of
computation, hardness of approximation, and other areas.
As an example, interactive proofs (IPs) [40] allow proof-veriﬁcation to be
randomized and interactive, which seemingly confers them much more power
than their deterministic (and non-interactive) counterparts. In a k-round IP, a
probabilistic polynomial-time veriﬁer exchanges k messages with an all-powerful
prover and then accepts or rejects; IP[k] is the class of languages decidable
via a k-round interactive proof. Seminal results characterize the power of IPs
(IP[poly(n)] = PSPACE) [48,54] and also achieve zero-knowledge [38,40].
The development of IPs, in turn, led to probabilistically checkable proofs
(PCPs) [4,36], where a probabilistic polynomial-time veriﬁer has query access
to a proof string. Here PCP[r, q] denotes the class of languages decidable by a
PCP veriﬁer that uses at most r bits of randomness and queries at most q bits
of the proof string. A line of works culminated in the PCP Theorem [1,2], which
can be stated as NP = PCP[O(log n), O(1)]; that is, every language in NP can
be decided, with constant soundness error, by probabilistically examining only
a constant number of bits in a polynomially long proof.
These advances in probabilistic proofs have reshaped theoretical computer
science.
Interactive Oracle Proofs. More recently, researchers formulated interactive ora-
cle proofs (IOPs) [12,52], a model of probabilistic proof that combines aspects
of the IP and PCP models. A k-round IOP is a k-round IP where the veriﬁer
has PCP-like access to each prover message: the prover and veriﬁer interact for
k rounds, and after the interaction the veriﬁer probabilistically reads a small
number of bits from each prover message and decides to accept or reject based
on the examined locations. The randomness used in the ﬁnal phase is called
decision randomness (which we distinguish from the random messages that the
veriﬁer sends to the prover during the interaction).
Recent work has constructed highly-eﬃcient IOPs [7–11,13,18–21,26,53].
While the shortest PCPs known to date have quasi-linear length [16,30], IOPs
can achieve linear proof length and fast provers. These developments are at the
heart of recent constructions of non-interactive succinct arguments (SNARGs),
and have facilitated their deployment in numerous real-world systems. IOPs are
also used to construct IPs for delegating computation [52].
IOPs Beyond NP? Most research regarding IOPs has focused on understanding
IOPs for languages in NP (and more generally various forms of non-deterministic
computations) while using the additional rounds of interaction to achieve better
eﬃciency compared to PCPs for those languages.
However, the power of IOPs for languages beyond NP is not well understood.
We do know that IPs can express all languages in PSPACE for suﬃciently large
round complexity [48,54]; moreover more rounds lead to more languages because,

66
G. Arnon et al.
under plausible complexity assumptions, it holds that IP[k] ̸⊆IP[o(k)] (while
restricting to polynomial communication complexity) [39]. But what can we say
about the power of IOPs with small query complexity (over the binary alphabet)?1
Not much is known about the power of general k-round IOPs, which leads us to
ask:
What languages have a k-round IOP where the veriﬁer decides by reading
O(1) bits from each prover message and from each veriﬁer message?
1.1
Main Results
We answer the above question by showing that (informally) the power of IOPs
with k rounds where the veriﬁer reads O(1) bits from each communication round
(both prover and veriﬁer messages) is the same as if the veriﬁer reads the entire
protocol transcript (as in an IP). This can be seen as extending the PCP Theorem
to interactive proofs, interpreted as “you can be convinced by a conversation while
barely listening (even to yourself)”.
To achieve this, our main result is a transformation from IPs to IOPs: we
transform any IP into a corresponding IOP where the veriﬁer reads O(1) bits
from each communication round and uses a total of O(log n) bits of decision
randomness.2 The round complexity is preserved, and other parameters are pre-
served up to polynomial factors. (A round is a veriﬁer message followed by a
prover message; after the interaction, the veriﬁer’s decision is probabilistic).
Theorem 1 (IP →IOP).
Let L be a language with a public-coin IP with k
rounds and constant soundness error. Then L has an IOP with k rounds, constant
soundness error, where the veriﬁer decides by using O(log n) bits of decision
randomness and reading O(1) bits from each prover message and each veriﬁer
message. All other parameters are polynomially related.
Prior Work on IOPs Beyond NP. The PCP Theorem can be viewed as a “half-
round” IOP with query complexity O(1) and decision randomness O(log n) for
NP. For languages above NP, prior works imply certain facts about k-round
IOPs for extreme settings of k.
– For languages that have a public-coin IP with k = 1 round (a veriﬁer message
followed by a prover message), Drucker [33] proves a hardness of approxima-
tion result in the terminology of CSPs. His result can be re-interpreted showing
that these languages have a one-round IOP where the veriﬁer reads O(1) bits
from each message and decides (using O(log n) bits of decision randomness).
However, Drucker’s result does not extend to arbitrary many rounds.3
1 An IP is an IOP where the veriﬁer has large query complexity over the binary
alphabet.
2 After the interaction, the veriﬁer uses O(log n) random bits to decide which locations
to read from all k rounds.
3 Round reduction [5] can reduce the number of rounds from any k to 1 with a blow-up in
communication that is exponential in k. This does not work when k is super constant;
see Sect. 2.2 for further discussion.

A PCP Theorem for Interactive Proofs and Applications
67
– When k can be polynomially large, we observe that constant-query IOPs for
PSPACE can be obtained from [27,28],4 which in turn provides such an IOP
for every language having an IP. Other analogues of PCP have been given
(e.g., [43] applies to the polynomial hierarchy, [32] is also for PSPACE) but
they do not seem to translate to IOPs.
– For general k, one can use the fact that AM[k] ⊆NEXP, and obtain a PCP
where the prover sends a single exponentially-long message from which the
(polynomial-time) veriﬁer reads O(1) bits. However, this does not help if we
require the prover to send messages of polynomial length.
See Fig. 1 for a table summarizing these results and ours.
Fig. 1. Classes captured by diﬀerent types of probabilistic proofs (in the regime of
constant soundness error). Here, x denotes the instance whose membership in the
language the veriﬁer is deciding. Here, AM stands for two-message public-coin protocols
(a veriﬁer random message followed by a prover message), and AM[k] is a k-round
public-coin protocol.
Hardness of Approximation for Stochastic Satisﬁability. We use Theo-
rem 1 to prove the hardness of approximating the value of an instance of the
stochastic satisﬁability (SSAT) problem, which we now informally deﬁne.
SSAT is a variant of TQBF (true quantiﬁed boolean formulas) where the
formula is in 3CNF and the variables are quantiﬁed by alternating existential
quantiﬁers and random quantiﬁers (the value of the quantiﬁed variable is chosen
uniformly at random). A formula φ is in the language SSAT if the probability
that there is a setting of the existential variables that cause φ to be satisﬁed
is greater than 1/2. The value of an SSAT instance φ is the expected number
of satisﬁed clauses in φ if the existential variables are chosen to maximize the
4 Their result shows that PSPACE has what is known as a probabilistically checkable
debate system. In their system, one prover plays a uniform random strategy. Thus
one can naturally translate the debate system into an IOP.

68
G. Arnon et al.
number of satisﬁed clauses in φ. We denote by k-SSAT the SSAT problem when
there are k alternations between existential and random quantiﬁers.
SSAT can be viewed as a restricted “game against nature” [51] where all
parties are binary, and “nature’s” moves are made uniformly at random. Varia-
tions of SSAT are related to areas of research in artiﬁcial intelligence, speciﬁcally
planning and reasoning under uncertainty [47]. Previous research on SSAT has
studied complexity-theoretical aspects [28,33,34] and SAT-solvers for it (e.g.,
[45,47,49]).
Our result on the hardness of approximation for k-SSAT is as follows.
Theorem 2. For every k, it is AM[k]-complete to distinguish whether a k-SSAT
instance has value 1 or value at most 1 −
1
O(k).
We compare Theorem 2 with prior ones about k-SSAT. For k = 1, our result
matches that of [33] who showed that the value of 1-SSAT is AM[1]-hard to
approximate up to a constant factor. Condon, Feigenbaum, Lund, and Shor
[28] show that there exists a constant c > 1 such that for every language L in
IP = PSPACE, one can reduce an instance x to a poly(|x|)-SSAT instance φ
such that if x ∈L then the value of φ is 1, and otherwise the value of φ is 1/c.
The approaches used in both prior works do not seem to extend to other values
of k.
This state of aﬀairs motives the following natural question:
How hard is it to approximate the value of k-SSAT to a constant factor
independent of k?
While PCPs have well-known applications to the hardness of approximation
of numerous NP problems, no similar connection between IOPs and hardness
of approximation was known. (Indeed, this possibility was raised as an open
problem in prior work.) The works of Drucker [33] and Condon et al. [28] can
be reinterpreted as giving such results for stochastic satisﬁability problems. In
this paper we make this connection explicit and extend their results.
Transformations for IOPs. We obtain IOP analogues of classical IP theo-
rems, as a corollary of Theorem 1. We show IOP-to-IOP transformations, with
small query complexity, and achieve classical results that were known for IPs,
including: a private-coin to public-coin transformation (in the style of [41]); a
round reduction technique (in the style of [5]); and a method to obtain per-
fect completeness (in the style of [37]). A graphic of this corollary is displayed
in Fig. 2.
Corollary 1. Let L be a language with a k-round IOP with polynomial proof
length over a binary alphabet. Then the following holds:
1. private-coins to public-coins: L has a O(k)-round public-coin IOP;
2. round reduction: for every constant c ≤k, L has a k/c-round IOP;
3. perfect completeness: L has a perfectly complete k-round IOP.

A PCP Theorem for Interactive Proofs and Applications
69
All resulting IOPs have polynomial proof length and O(1) per-round query com-
plexity over a binary alphabet; all other parameters are polynomially related to
the original IOP.
Similar to the case with IPs, one can combine these transformations to get all
properties at once. In particular, one can transform any IOP to be public-coin
and have perfect completeness while preserving the round complexity.
Fig. 2. Corollary 1 provides IOP analogues of classical IP theorems.
1.2
A Cryptographic Application to SNARKs
A building block that underlies Theorem 1 is a new notion of PCP that we call
index-decodable PCPs. We informally describe this object in Sect. 1.2 below (and
postpone the deﬁnition and a comparison with other PCP notions to Sect. 2.3).
Moreover, we prove that index-decodable PCPs are a useful tool beyond the
aforementioned application to Theorem 1, by establishing a generic transfor-
mation from index-decodable PCPs to commit-and-prove SNARKs. We discuss
these SNARKs and our result in Sect. 1.2 below (and postpone further discussion
to Sect. 2.6).
Index-Decodable PCPs. An index-decodable PCP can be seen as a PCP
on maliciously encoded data. The prover wishes to convince the veriﬁer about
a statement that involves k data segments i[1], . . . , i[k] and an instance x, for
example, that it knows a witness w such that (i[1], . . . , i[k], x, w) ∈R for some
relation R. The prover outputs a PCP string Π for this statement. The veriﬁer
receives as input only the instance x, and is given query access to an encoding of
each data segment i[i] and query access to the PCP string Π. This means that
the veriﬁer has query access to a total of k + 1 oracles.

70
G. Arnon et al.
The deﬁnition of an index-decodable PCP, to be useful, needs to take into
account several delicate points (which, in fact, are crucial for our proof of
Theorem 1).
First, the encoding of each data segment must be computed independently
of other data segments and even the instance. (Though the PCP string Π can
depend on all data segments and the instance).
Second, the veriﬁer is not guaranteed that the k data oracles are valid encod-
ings, in the sense that “security” is required to hold even against malicious
provers that have full control of all k + 1 oracles (not just the PCP string ora-
cle). In other words, we wish to formulate a security notion that is meaningful
even for data that has been maliciously encoded.
The security notion that we use is decodability. Informally, we require that if
the veriﬁer accepts with high-enough probability a given set of (possibly mali-
cious) data oracles and PCP string, then each data oracle can be individually
decoded into a data segment and the PCP string can be decoded into a wit-
ness such that, collectively, all the data segments, the instance, and the witness
form a true statement. We stress that the decoder algorithms must run on each
data oracle separately from other data oracles and the instance (similarly as the
encoder).
Commit-and-Prove
SNARKs.
A
commit-and-prove
SNARK
(CaP-
SNARK) is a SNARK that enables proving statements about previously com-
mitted data, and commitments can be reused across diﬀerent statements. CaP-
SNARKs have been studied in a line of work [17,22,29,35,46], where construc-
tions have been achieved assuming speciﬁc computational assumptions (e.g.,
knowledge of exponent assumptions) and usually with the added property of
zero-knowledge.
We show how to use index-decodable PCPs to unconditionally achieve CaP-
SNARKs in the random oracle model (ROM);5 in more detail we need the index-
decodable PCP to have eﬃcient indexing/decoding and certain proximity prop-
erties. Our transformation can be seen as an index-decodable PCP analogue of
the Micali construction of SNARKs in the ROM from PCPs [50].
Theorem 3. There is a transformation that takes as input an index-decodable
PCP (that has an eﬃcient indexer and decoder and satisﬁes certain proximity
properties) for a relation R with proof length l and query complexity q, and
outputs a CaP-SNARK in the ROM for R with argument size Oλ(q·log l). (Here
λ is the output size of the random oracle.)
We obtain a concrete construction of a CaP-SNARK in the ROM (for non-
deterministic computations) by applying the above theorem to our construction
of an index-decodable PCP system.
We conclude by noting that the ROM supports several well-known construc-
tions of succinct arguments that can be heuristically instantiated via lightweight
5 In this model, all parties (honest and malicious) receive query access to the same
random function.

A PCP Theorem for Interactive Proofs and Applications
71
cryptographic hash functions, are plausibly post-quantum secure [25], and have
led to realizations that are useful in practice. It is plausible that our construc-
tion can be shown to have these beneﬁts as well—we leave this, and constructing
zero-knowledge CaP-SNARKs in the ROM, to future work.
2
Techniques
We summarize the main ideas underlying our results.
We begin by discussing the question of transforming IPs to IOPs. In Sect. 2.1,
we describe a solution in [33] that works for a single round and explain why it is
challenging to extend it for multiple rounds. Then, we describe our transforma-
tion for many rounds in two steps. First, in Sect. 2.2, we describe how to make
a veriﬁer query each of its random messages at few locations. Next, in Sect. 2.3,
we deﬁne our new notion of index-decodable PCPs and, in Sect. 2.4, describe
how to use these to make the veriﬁer query each prover message at few loca-
tions (without aﬀecting the ﬁrst step). In Sect. 2.5, we explain how to construct
index-decodable PCPs with good parameters.
We conclude by describing applications of our results and constructions:
(i) in Sect. 2.6, we construct commit-and-prove SNARKs in the random oracle
model from index-decodable PCPs; and (ii) in Sect. 2.7, we show that Theorem 1
has implications on the hardness of approximating the value of certain stochastic
problems.
Throughout, we call interaction randomness (or veriﬁer random messages)
the randomness sent by the veriﬁer to the prover during the interaction, and
decision randomness the randomness used by the veriﬁer in the post-interaction
decision stage.
2.1
Towards Transforming IPs to IOPs
We discuss the problem of transforming IPs into IOPs. We begin by describing
a solution in [33] that transforms a single-round IP into a single-round IOP.
Following that, we describe the challenges of extending this approach to work
for multi-round IPs.
The Case of a Single-Round IP. The case of a single-round was settled by
Drucker [33], whose work implies a transformation from a public-coin single-
round IP to a single-round IOP where the veriﬁer reads O(1) bits from the
communication transcript (here consisting of the prover message and the veri-
ﬁer message). His construction uses as building blocks the randomness-eﬃcient
ampliﬁcation technique of [6] and PCPs of proximity (PCPPs) [15,31].6 We give
a high-level overview of his construction.
6 A PCPP is a PCP system where the veriﬁer has oracle access to its input in addition
to the prover’s proof; the soundness guarantee is that if the input is far (in Ham-
ming distance) from any input in the language, then the veriﬁer accepts with small
probability.

72
G. Arnon et al.
In a public-coin single-round IP, given a common input instance x, the veriﬁer
VIP sends randomness ρ, the prover PIP sends a message a, and the veriﬁer VIP
decides whether to accept by applying a predicate to (x, ρ, a). Consider the non-
deterministic machine M such that M(x, ρ) = 1 if and only if there exists a such
that VIP accepts (x, ρ, a). The constructed IOP works as follows:
1. the IOP veriﬁer sends VIP’s randomness ρ;
2. the IOP prover computes PIP’s message a and produces a PCPP string Π for
the claim “M(x, ρ) = 1”;
3. the IOP veriﬁer checks Π using the PCPP veriﬁer with explicit inputs M and
x and implicit input ρ.
This IOP is sound if the underlying IP is “randomness-robust”, which means
that if x is not in the language then with high probability over ρ it holds that
ρ is far from any accepting input for M(x, ·). Drucker achieves this property
by using an ampliﬁcation technique in [6] that achieves soundness error 2−|ρ|
while using O(|ρ|) random bits (standard ampliﬁcation would, when starting
with a constant-soundness protocol, result in ω(|ρ|) random bits). Thus, with
high probability, ρ is not only a “good” random string (which holds for any
single-round IP) but also is δ-far from any “bad” random string, for some small
constant δ > 0. This follows since the ball of radius δ around any bad random
string has size 2δ′|ρ|, for some small constant δ′ that depends only on δ.
Challenges of Extending the Single-Round Approach to Multi-round
IPs. We wish to obtain a similarly eﬃcient transformation for a public-coin
k-round IP where k = poly(n).
One possible approach would be to reduce the number of rounds of the given
IP from k to 1 and then apply the transformation for single-round IPs. The
round reduction of Babai and Moran [5] shows that any public-coin k-round IP
can be transformed into a one-round IP where eﬃciency parameters grow by
nO(k). This transformation, however, is not eﬃcient for super-constant values of
k. Moreover, it is undesirable even when k is constant because the transformation
overhead is not a ﬁxed polynomial (the exponent depends on k rather than being
a ﬁxed constant).
Therefore, we seek an approach that directly applies to a multi-round IP. Unfor-
tunately, Drucker’s approach for one-round IPs does not generalize to multiple-
round IPs for several reasons. First, the corresponding machine M(x, ρ1, . . . , ρk)
(which accepts if and only if there exist prover messages a1, . . . , ak such that VIP
accepts (x, ρ1, a1, . . . , ρk, ak)) does not capture the soundness of the interactive
proof because it fails to capture interaction (a protocol may be sound accord-
ing to the IP deﬁnition and, yet, for every x and ρ1, . . . , ρk it could be that
M(x, ρ1, . . . , ρk) = 1). Moreover, it is not clear how to perform a randomness-
eﬃcient ampliﬁcation for multiple rounds that makes the protocol suﬃciently
“randomness robust” for the use of a PCPP. The main reason is that to get sound-
ness error 2−m (as in [33]), the techniques of [6] add O(m) bits per round, which
is too much when the protocol has many rounds (see Sect. 2.2 for a more detailed
discussion on why this approach fails for many rounds).

A PCP Theorem for Interactive Proofs and Applications
73
We give a diﬀerent solution that circumvents this step and works for any
number of rounds. Our transformation from k-round IP to an IOP in two stages.
In the ﬁrst stage, we transform the IP into one in which the veriﬁer reads only
O(1) bits from each random message it sends. In the second stage, we transform
the IP into an IOP with O(1) per-round query complexity, simultaneously for
each prover message and each veriﬁer message. We achieve this via a new notion
of PCPs that we call index-decodable PCPs, and we describe in Sect. 2.3. First,
we explain how to achieve the property that the veriﬁer reads O(1) bits from
each of its random messages to the prover.
2.2
Local Access to Randomness
We transform a public-coin IP (PIP, VIP) into an IP (P′
IP, V′
IP) whose veriﬁer (i)
reads O(1) bits from each of its random messages to the prover, and (ii) has
logarithmic decision randomness (the randomness used by the veriﬁer in the
post-interaction decision stage). For now, the veriﬁer reads in full every message
received from the prover, and only later we discuss how to reduce the query
complexity to prover messages while preserving the query complexity to the
veriﬁer random messages.
One-Round Public-Coin Proofs. In order to describe our ideas we begin with
the simple case of one-round public-coin interactive proofs. Recall from Sect. 2.1
that this case is solved in [33], but we nevertheless ﬁrst describe our alternative
approach for this case and after that we will discuss the multiple-round case.
A Strawman Protocol. Recall that in a one-round public-coin IP the veriﬁer
sends a uniformly random message, the prover replies with some answer, and
the veriﬁer uses both of these messages to decide whether to accept. An idea
to allow the veriﬁer to not read in full its own random message would be for
the prover to send the received random message back to the veriﬁer, and the
veriﬁer to use this latter and test consistency with its own randomness. Given
an instance x: V′
IP sends VIP’s random message ρ ∈{0, 1}r; P′
IP replies with
ρ′ := ρ and the message a := PIP(x, ρ); and V′
IP checks that ρ and ρ′ agree on a
random location and that VIP(x, ρ′, a) = 1.
This new IP is complete, and its veriﬁer queries its random message at one
location to conduct the consistency test. However, the protocol might not be
sound, as we explain. Suppose that x /∈L. Let r be the length of ρ, let β be
the soundness error of the original IP, and let νr be the volume of the Hamming
sphere of radius r/3 in {0, 1}r. A choice of veriﬁer message ρ is bad if there exists
a such that VIP(x, ρ, a) = 1. By the soundness guarantee of VIP, the fraction of
bad choices of random veriﬁer messages is at most β. A choice of veriﬁer message
ρ is ball-bad if there exist a bad ρ′ that is 1/3-close to ρ. By the union bound,
the fraction of ball-bad coins is at most γ = β · νr.
Let E be the event over the choice of ρ that the prover sends ρ′ that is 1/3-far
from ρ.

74
G. Arnon et al.
– Conditioned on E occurring, V′
IP rejects with probability at least 1/3 (when-
ever V′
IP chooses a location on which ρ and ρ′ disagree).
– Conditioned on E not occurring, P′
IP cannot send any ρ′ and a such that
VIP(x, ρ′, a) = 1 unless ρ is ball-bad, and so V′
IP rejects with probability at
least 1 −γ.
Therefore, for the new IP to be sound, we need γ = β · νr to be small. Notice
that νr = 2c·r (for some constant 0 < c < 1) depends on r but not on β. Thus we
need to achieve log 1/β > c · r. As in Drucker’s transformation, this can be done
using the randomness-eﬃcient soundness ampliﬁcation of [6], but we deliberately
take a diﬀerent approach that will generalize for multiple rounds.
Shrinking γ Using Extractors. Let Ext be an extractor with output length r, seed
length O(log 1/β), and error β;7 such extractors are constructed in [42]. Suppose
that the prover and veriﬁer have access to a sample z from a source D with high
min-entropy. Consider the following IP: V′
IP sends s; P′
IP replies with s′ := s and
a := PIP(x, Ext(z, s′)); V′
IP checks that s and s′ agree on a random location and
that VIP(x, Ext(z, s′), a) = 1.
At most a 2β-fraction of the seeds s are such that there exists a such that
VIP(x, Ext(z, s), a) = 1, because Ext is an extractor with error β and D is a
distribution with high min-entropy. By an identical argument to the one done
previously, either P′
IP sends s′ that is far from s and so V′
IP rejects with constant
probability, or V′
IP rejects with probability at least γ = 2β · νr′ where r′ = |s| =
O(log 1/β). Thus we have that γ = 2·β1−c, which is a constant fraction for small
enough values of β (which can be achieved with standard parallel repetition).
Generating a Source of High Min-Entropy. We describe how the prover and
veriﬁer can agree on a sample from a high-entropy source by leveraging the
following observation: if z is a uniformly random string and z′ is an arbitrary
string that is close in Hamming distance to z, then z′ has high min-entropy.
Thus we can sample via similar ideas as above: V′
IP samples and sends z; P′
IP
replies with z′ := z; and V′
IP checks that z and z′ agree on a random location.
(So V′
IP reads one bit of its random message z.) If, with constant probability
over z, P′
IP sends z′ that is far from z, then V′
IP rejects with constant probability.
Otherwise, we show that z′ has high min-entropy because with high probability
it agrees with z on most of its locations.
Putting it All Together. Let (PIP, VIP) be a public-coin single-round IP with
soundness error β and randomness complexity r, and let Ext be an extractor
with output length r, seed length O(log 1/β), and error β. The new IP (P′
IP, V′
IP)
is as follows.
– Sample high min-entropy source: V′
IP sends z and P′
IP replies with z′ := z.
– Sample extractor seed: V′
IP sends s and P′
IP replies with s′ := s.
7 A function Ext: {0, 1}n × {0, 1}d →{0, 1}m is a (k, ε)-extractor if, for every random
variable X over {0, 1}n with min-entropy at least k, the statistical distance between
Ext(X, Ud) and Um is at most ε.

A PCP Theorem for Interactive Proofs and Applications
75
– Prover message: P′
IP sends a := PIP(x, Ext(z′, s′)).
– Veriﬁcation: V′
IP checks that z and z′ agree on a random location, s and s′
agree on a random location, and VIP(x, Ext(z′, s′), a) = 1.
Extending to Multiple Rounds. In order to extend the previously described
protocol to multiple rounds, we leverage the notion of round-by-round soundness.
An IP for a language L has round-by-round soundness error βrbr if there exists a
“state” function such that: (i) for x /∈L, the starting state is “doomed”; (ii) for
every doomed state and next message that a malicious prover might send, with
probability βrbr over the veriﬁer’s next message, the protocol state will remain
doomed; (iii) if at the end of interaction the state is doomed then the veriﬁer rejects.
In the analysis of the one-round case there was an event (called bad) over the
IP veriﬁer’s random message ρ such that if this event does not occur then the
prover has no accepting strategy. This event can be replaced, in the round-by-
round case, by the event that, in a given round, the veriﬁer chooses randomness
where the transcript remains doomed. This idea leads to a natural extension of
the one-round protocol described in Sect. 2.2 to the multi-round case, which is
our ﬁnal protocol.
Let (PIP, VIP) be a public-coin k-round IP with round-by-round soundness
error βrbr and randomness complexity r, and Ext an extractor with output length
r, seed length O(log 1/βrbr), and error βrbr.
– For each round j ∈[k] of the original IP:
1. Sample high min-entropy source: V′
IP sends zj and P′
IP replies with z′
j := zj.
2. Sample extractor seed: V′
IP sends sj and P′
IP replies with s′
j := sj.
3. Prover message: P′
IP sends aj := PIP(x, ρ1, . . . , ρj) where ρi := Ext(zi, si).
– V′
IP accepts if and only if the following tests pass:
1. Choose a random location and, for every j ∈[k], test that zj and z′
j agree
on this location.
2. Choose a random location and, for every j ∈[k], test that sj and s′
j agree
on this location.
3. For every j ∈[k], compute ρj := Ext(z′
j, s′
j). Check that VIP(x, ρ1,
a1, . . . , ρk, ak) = 1.
The soundness analysis of this protocol is similar to the one-round case.
Suppose that x /∈L. Then the empty transcript is “doomed”. By an analysis
similar to the one-round case, except where we set “bad” veriﬁer messages to be
ones where the transcript state switches from doomed to not doomed, if a round
begins with a doomed transcript then except with probability γ = 2 · β1−c
rbr
(for
some constant c) the transcript in the next round is also doomed. Thus, by a
union bound, the probability that the transcript ends up doomed, and as a result
the veriﬁer rejects, is at least 1 −2 · k · β1−c
rbr . As shown in [23] round-by-round
soundness error can be reduced via parallel repetition, albeit at a lower rate
than regular soundness error. Thus, by doing enough parallel repetition before
applying our transformation, the round-by-round soundness error βrbr can be
reduced enough so that the veriﬁer rejects with constant probability.

76
G. Arnon et al.
The above protocol has 2kIP rounds. The veriﬁer reads 1 bit from each of
its random messages, and has O(log |x|) bits of decision randomness (to sample
random locations for testing consistency between each z′
j and zj and between
each s′
j and sj). To achieve kIP rounds, we ﬁrst apply the round reduction of [5]
on the original IP to reduce to kIP/2 rounds, and then apply our transformation.
Why Randomness-Eﬃcient Soundness Ampliﬁcation is Insuﬃcient.
We brieﬂy sketch why applying randomness-eﬃcient soundness ampliﬁcation in
the style of [6] is insuﬃcient in the multi-round case, even if we were to consider
round-by-round soundness. Recall that we wish for βrbr ·2Θ(r) to be small, where
βrbr is the round-by-round soundness of the protocol and r is the number of
random bits sent by the veriﬁer in a single round. Bellare, Goldreich and Gold-
wasser [6] show that, starting with constant soundness and randomness r, one
can achieve soundness error 2−m using r′ = O(r + m) random bits; they do this
via m parallel repetitions where the randomness between repetitions is shared
in a clever way. Using parallel repetition, achieving round-by-round soundness
error 2−m requires m/k repetitions (see [23]). Thus, even if we were to show that
the transformation of [6] reduces round-by-round soundness error at the same
rate as standard parallel repetition (as it does for standard soundness), in order
to get round-by-round soundness error 2−m, we would need r′ = O(r + m · k)
bits of randomness. This would achieve βrbr · 2Θ(r′) = 2−m · 2Θ(r+mk), which, for
super-constant values of k, is greater than 1 regardless of r.
2.3
Index-Decodable PCPs
We introduce index-decodable PCPs, a notion of PCP that works on multi-
indexed relations. A multi-indexed relation R is a set of tuples (i[1], . . . , i[k], x, w)
where (i[1], . . . , i[k]) is the index vector, x the instance, and w the witness. As
seen in the following deﬁnition, an index-decodable PCP treats the index vector
(i[1], . . . , i[k]) and the instance x diﬀerently, which is why they are not “merged”
into an instance x′ = (i[1], . . . , i[k], x) (and why we do not consider standard
relations).
Deﬁnition 1. An index-decodable PCP for a multi-indexed relation R =
{ (i[1], . . . , i[k], x, w) } is a tuple of algorithms (IPCP, PPCP, VPCP, iDPCP, wDPCP),
where IPCP is the (honest) indexer, PPCP the (honest) prover, VPCP the veriﬁer,
iDPCP the index decoder, and wDPCP the witness decoder. The system has (perfect
completeness and) decodability bound κPCP if the following conditions hold.
– Completeness. For every (i[1], . . . , i[k], x, w) ∈R,
Pr
ρ
⎡
⎢⎢⎢⎣Vπ1,...,πk,Π
PCP
(x; ρ) = 1
π1 ←IPCP(i[1])
...
πk ←IPCP(i[k])
Π ←PPCP(i[1], . . . , i[k], x, w)
⎤
⎥⎥⎥⎦= 1.

A PCP Theorem for Interactive Proofs and Applications
77
– Decodability. For every x, indexer proofs ˜π1, . . . , ˜πk, and malicious prover
proof ˜Π, if
Pr
ρ

V˜π1,...,˜πk, ˜
Π
PCP
(x; ρ) = 1
	
> κPCP(|x|)
then

iDPCP(˜π1), . . . , iDPCP(˜πk), x, wDPCP( ˜Π)

∈R.
The indexer IPCP separately encodes each index, independent of indices and
the instance, to obtain a corresponding indexer proof. The prover PPCP gets all
the data as input (index vector, instance, and witness) and outputs a prover
proof. The veriﬁer VPCP gets the instance as input and has query access to k + 1
oracles (k indexer proofs and 1 prover proof), and outputs a bit.
The decodability condition warrants some discussion. The usual soundness
condition of a PCP for a standard relation R has the following form: “if V ˜
Π
PCP(x)
accepts with high-enough probability then there exists a witness w such that
(x, w) ∈R”. For a multi-indexed relation it could be that for any given instance
x there exist indexes i[1], . . . , i[k] and a witness w such that (i[1], . . . , i[k], x, w) ∈
R. Since we do not trust the indexer’s outputs, a soundness condition is not
meaningful.
Instead, the decodability condition that we consider has the following form:
“if V˜π1,...,˜πk, ˜
Π
PCP
(x) accepts with high-enough probability then (i[1], . . . , i[k], x,
w) ∈R where i[1], . . . , i[k] and w are the decoded indices and witness respec-
tively found in ˜π1, . . . , ˜πk and ˜Π”. It is crucial that the index decoder receives
as input the relevant indexer proof but not also the instance, or else the decod-
ability condition would be trivially satisﬁed (the index decoder could output the
relevant index of the lexicographically ﬁrst index vector putting the instance in
the relation). This ensures that the proofs collectively convince the veriﬁer not
only that there exists an index vector and witness that place the instance in the
relation, but that the prover encoded a witness that, along with index vector
obtainable from the index oracles via the index decoder, places the instance in
the relation.
We do not require the indexer or the decoders to be eﬃcient. However, in some
applications, it is useful to have an eﬃcient indexer and decoders, and indeed
we construct an index-decodable PCP with an eﬃcient indexer and decoders.
Remark 1 (comparison with holography).
We compare index-decodable PCPs
and holographic PCPs, which also work for indexed relations (see [24] and ref-
erences therein). In both cases, an indexer produces an encoding of the index
(independent of the instance). However, there are key diﬀerences between the
two: (i) in an index-decodable PCP the indexer works separately on each entry
of the index vector, while in a holographic PCP there is a single index; more-
over, (ii) in a holographic PCP the indexer is trusted in the sense that security is
required to hold only when the veriﬁer has oracle access to the honest indexer’s
output, but in an index-decodable PCP, the indexer is not trusted in the sense
that the malicious prover can choose encodings for all of the indices. Both dif-
ferences are essential properties for our transformation of IPs into IOPs.

78
G. Arnon et al.
We construct a binary index-decodable PCPs with O(1) query complexity
per oracle.
Theorem 4. Any multi-indexed relation R = {(i[1], . . . , i[k], x, w)} to which
membership can be veriﬁed in nondeterministic time T has a non-adaptive index-
decodable PCP with the following parameters:
Index-Decodable PCP for (i[1], . . . , i[k], x, w) ∈R
Indexer proof length (per proof) O(|i[i]|)
Prover proof length
poly(T)
Alphabet size
2
Queries per oracle
O(1)
Randomness
O(log |x|)
Decodability bound
O(1)
Indexer running time
˜O(|i[i]|)
Prover running time
poly(T)
Veriﬁer running time
poly(|x|, k, log T)
Index decoding running
˜O(|i[i]|)
Witness decoding time
poly(T)
Our construction achieves optimal parameters similar to the PCP theorem:
it has O(1) query complexity (per oracle) over a binary alphabet, and the ran-
domness complexity is logarithmic, independent of the number of indexes k.
Achieving small randomness complexity is challenging and useful. First, it facili-
tates proof composition (where a prover writes a proof for every possible random
string), which is common when constructing zero-knowledge PCPs (e.g., [44]).
Second, small randomness complexity is necessary for our hardness of approxi-
mation results (see Sect. 2.7).
A similar notion is (implicitly) considered in [1] but their construction does
not achieve the parameters we obtain in Theorem 4 (most crucially, they do not
achieve small randomness).
2.4
Local Access to Prover Messages
We show how to transform an IP into an IOP by eliminating the need of the
veriﬁer to read more than a few bits of each prover message. This transforma-
tion preserves the number of bits read by the veriﬁer to its own interaction
randomness. Thus, combining it with the transformation described in Sect. 2.2,
this completes the proof (overview) of Theorem 1.
We transform any public-coin IP into an IOP by using an index-decodable
PCP. In a public-coin k-round IP, the prover PIP and veriﬁer VIP receive as input
an instance x and then, in each round i, the veriﬁer VIP sends randomness ρi and
the prover replies with a message ai ←PIP(x, ρ1, . . . , ρi); after the interaction,

A PCP Theorem for Interactive Proofs and Applications
79
the veriﬁer VIP runs an eﬃcient probabilistic algorithm with decision randomness
ρdc on the transcript (x, ρ1, a1, . . . , ρk, ak) to decide whether to accept or reject.
The IP veriﬁer VIP deﬁnes a multi-indexed relation R(VIP) consisting of tuples

i[1], . . . , i[k], x′, w

=

a1, . . . , ak, (x, ρ1, . . . , ρk, ρdc), ⊥

such that the IP veriﬁer VIP accepts the instance x, transcript (ρ1, a1, . . . , ρk, ak),
and decision randomness ρdc. (Here we do not rely on witnesses although the
deﬁnition of index-decodable PCPs supports this.)
From IP to IOP. Let (IPCP, PPCP, VPCP, iDPCP, wDPCP) be an index-decodable PCP
for the relation R(VIP). We construct the IOP as follows. The IOP prover and
IOP veriﬁer receive an instance x. In round i ∈[k], the IOP veriﬁer sends
randomness ρi (just like the IP veriﬁer VIP) and the (honest) IOP prover
sends the indexer proof πi := IPCP(ai) where ai ←PIP(x, ρ1, . . . , ρi). In a ﬁnal
additional message (which can be sent at the same time as the last indexer
proof πk), the IOP prover sends Π := {Πρdc}ρdc where, for every possible
choice of decision randomness ρdc, Πρdc is an index-decodable PCP prover proof
to the fact that

a1, . . . , ak, (x, ρ1, . . . , ρk, ρdc), ⊥

∈R(VIP). After the inter-
action, the IOP veriﬁer samples IP decision randomness ρdc and checks that
V
˜π1,...,˜πk, ˜
Πρdc
PCP

x, ρ1, . . . , ρk, ρdc

= 1.
Proof Sketch. Completeness follows straightforwardly from the construction. We
now sketch a proof of soundness. Letting L be the language decided by (PIP, VIP),
ﬁx an instance x /∈L and a malicious IOP prover ˜PIOP. Given interaction random-
ness ρ1, . . . , ρk, consider the messages ˜π1, . . . , ˜πk output by ˜PIOP in the relevant
rounds (˜πi depends on ρ1, . . . , ρi) and the message ˜Π = { ˜Πρdc}ρdc output by ˜PIOP
in the last round (this message depends on ρ1, . . . , ρk). We consider two comple-
mentary options of events over the IOP veriﬁer’s randomness (ρ1, . . . , ρk, ρdc).
1. With high probability the proofs ˜π1, . . . , ˜πk and ˜Πρdc generated while inter-
acting with ˜PIOP using randomness ρ1, . . . , ρk and ρdc are such that

iDPCP(˜π1), . . . , iDPCP(˜πk), (x, ρ1, . . . , ρk, ρdc), ⊥

/∈R(VIP).
If this is true, then, by the decodability property of the index-decodable
PCP, the IOP veriﬁer must reject with high probability over the choice of
randomness for VPCP.
2. With high probability the proofs ˜π1, . . . , ˜πk and ˜Πρdc generated while inter-
acting with ˜PIOP using randomness ρ1, . . . , ρk and ρdc are such that

iDPCP(˜π1), . . . , iDPCP(˜πk), (x, ρ1, . . . , ρk, ρdc), ⊥

∈R(VIP).
We prove that this case cannot occur by showing that it contradicts the
soundness of the original IP. Suppose towards contradiction that the above is
true. We use ˜PIOP and the index decoder of the index-decodable PCP, iDPCP,
to construct a malicious IP prover for the original IP as follows.

80
G. Arnon et al.
In round i, the transcript (ρ1, a1, . . . , ρi−1, ai−1) has already been set during
previous interaction. The IP veriﬁer sends randomness ρi. The IP prover sends
ai := iDPCP(˜πi) to the IP veriﬁer, where ˜πi := ˜PIOP(ρ1, . . . , ρi). Recall that

DPCP(˜π1), . . . , DPCP(˜πk), (x, ρ1, . . . , ρk, ρdc), ⊥

∈R(VIP) if and only if the IP
veriﬁer accepts given instance x, randomness (ρ1, . . . , ρk, ρdc), and prover mes-
sages DPCP(˜π1), . . . , DPCP(˜πk), which is precisely what the IP prover supplies
it with. Since the event that

DPCP(˜π1), . . . , DPCP(˜πk), (x, ρ1, . . . , ρk, ρdc), ⊥

∈
R(VIP) happens with high probability, this implies that with high probability
the IP veriﬁer will accept, contradicting soundness of the original IP. Here we
crucially used the fact that the decoder DPCP does not depend on the instance
of the index-decodable PCP (which consists of x and all of the IP veriﬁer’s
randomness ρ1, . . . , ρk, ρdc) or on the other indexer messages.
The resulting IOP has k rounds, exactly as in the original IP. The IOP veriﬁer
uses as much randomness as the original IP veriﬁer with the addition of the
randomness used by the index-decodable PCP. The query complexity is that
of the underlying veriﬁer of the index-decodable PCP. The proof length and
alphabet are the same as those of the index-decodable PCP.
Preserving Local Access to Randomness. The transformation described above
can be modiﬁed to preserve the query complexity of the veriﬁer to its own
interaction randomness if the veriﬁer is non-adaptive with respect to its queries
to its random messages (i.e., the choice of bits that it reads depends only on x
and ρdc). We can redeﬁne the multi-indexed relation R(VIP) to have as explicit
inputs the instance x, decision randomness ρdc, and the bits of ρ1, . . . , ρk that
the veriﬁer needs to read to decide whether to accept or reject (rather than the
entire interaction randomness strings). In more detail, suppose that the veriﬁer
reads q bits from its own interaction randomness. Then the new multi-indexed
relation consists of tuples:

i[1], . . . , i[k], x′, w

=

a1, . . . , ak, (x, b1, . . . , bq, ρdc), ⊥

such that given decision randomness ρdc the IP veriﬁer VIP accepts given instance
x, decision randomness ρdc, prover messages (a1, . . . , ak), and (b1, . . . , bq) as
answers to its q queries to ρ1, . . . , ρk.
Given a multi-indexed PCP for this relation, the IP to IOP transformation is
identical to the one described above, except that after the interaction, the IOP
veriﬁer samples IP decision randomness, queries its own interaction randomness
to get answers b1, . . . , bq, and these replace ρ1, . . . , ρk as explicit inputs to the
index-decodable PCP veriﬁer VPCP.
2.5
Constructing Index-Decodable PCPs
We describe how to construct index-decodable PCPs: in Sect. 2.5 we outline a
randomness-eﬃcient index-decodable PCP that makes O(1) queries to each of
its oracles, where the indexer proofs are over the binary alphabet and the prover
proof is over a large alphabet; then in Sect. 2.5 we use proof composition to
reduce the alphabet size of the latter.

A PCP Theorem for Interactive Proofs and Applications
81
Basic Construction from PCPPs. We outline a construction of an index-
decodable PCP with O(1) query complexity to each indexer proof and to the
prover proof, and where the prover proof is over a large alphabet (of size 2k).
For a later proof composition while preserving polynomial proof length, here we
additionally require that the veriﬁer has logarithmic randomness complexity.
Building Blocks. In our construction we rely on variants of PCPPs. Recall that
a PCPP is a PCP system where the veriﬁer has oracle access to its input in
addition to the prover’s proof; the soundness guarantee is that if the input is far
(in Hamming distance) from any input in the language, then the veriﬁer accepts
with small probability.
We use PCPPs that are multi-input and oblivious. We explain each of these
properties.
– A PCPP is multi-input if the veriﬁer has oracle access to multiple (oracle)
inputs. The soundness guarantee is that, for every vector of inputs that satisfy
the machine in question, if at least one input oracle is far from the respective
satisfying input, then the veriﬁer accepts with small probability.
– A (non-adaptive) PCPP is oblivious for a family of nondeterministic machines
M = {Mi}i∈[k] if the queries made by the veriﬁer to its oracles depend only on
M and its randomness. In particular they do not depend on i. This property
will be used later to facilitate bundling queries. We will have k PCPs, each
with a diﬀerent Mi, but the veriﬁer will use the same randomness in each
test. Since the PCPPs are oblivious, this means that the veriﬁer makes the
same queries for every test. Thus we can group together the k proofs into a
single proof with larger alphabet and maintain good query complexity on this
proof. This property is important in order to achieve our ﬁnal parameters.
See the full version of this paper for formal deﬁnitions for the above notions, and
how to obtain them from standard PCPPs. Henceforth, all PCPPs that we use
will be over the binary alphabet and have constant proximity, constant soundness
error, constant query complexity, and logarithmic randomness complexity.
The Construction. We construct an index-decodable PCP for a multi-indexed
relation R = {(i[1], . . . , i[k], x, w)} whose membership can be veriﬁed eﬃciently.
The indexer encodes each index via an error-correcting code with (constant)
relative distance greater than the (constant) proximity parameter of the PCPP
used later. The prover uses PCPPs to prove that there exist indexes and a witness
that put the given instance in the relation and adds consistency checks to prove
that the indices are consistent with those encoded by the indexer. The veriﬁer
checks each of these claims. The index decoder decodes the indexer proofs using
the same code.
In slightly more detail, the index-decodable PCP is as follows.
– IPCP(i[i]): Encode the index i[i] as πi using an error-correcting code.
– PPCP(i[1], . . . , i[k], x, w):

82
G. Arnon et al.
1. Encoding
the
indexes.
Compute
Π∗,
an
encoding
of
the
string
(i[1], . . . , i[k], w).
2. Membership of encoding. Compute a PCPP string Πmem for the claim that
M∗(x, Π∗) = 1 where M∗checks that Π∗is a valid encoding of indexes
and a witness that put x in R.
3. Consistency of encoding. For every j ∈[k], compute a PCPP string Πj
for the claim that Mj(πj, Π∗) = 1 where Mj checks that πj and Π∗are
valid encodings and that the string i[j] encoded within πj is equal to the
matching string encoded within Π∗.
4. Output (Π∗, Πmem, Πi) where Πi are the proofs Π1, . . . , Πk “bundled”
together into symbols of k bits such that Πi[q] = (Π1[q], . . . , Πk[q]).
– V˜π1,...,˜πk,( ˜
Π∗, ˜
Πmem, ˜
Πi)
PCP
(x): Check that all the tests below pass.
1. Membership. Run the PCPP veriﬁer on the claim that M∗(x, ˜Π∗) = 1
using proof oracle ˜Πmem.
2. Consistency. For every j ∈[k], run the PCPP veriﬁer on the claim that
Mj(˜πj, ˜Π∗) = 1 using proof oracle ˜Πj. These k tests are run with the same
randomness. Since the PCPP is oblivious and randomness is shared, the
queries made by the PCPP veriﬁer in each test are identical, and so each
query can be made by reading the appropriate k-bit symbols from ˜Πi.
– iDPCP(˜πj): output the codeword closest to ˜πj in the error-correcting code.
– wDPCP( ˜Π∗, ˜Πmem, ˜Πi): Let (˜i[1], . . . ,˜i[k], ˜w) be the codeword closest to ˜Π∗in
the error-correcting code and output ˜w.
Completeness follows straightforwardly from the construction. We now sketch
decodability.
Decodability. Fix an instance x, indexer proofs ˜π1, . . . , ˜πk, and prover proof
( ˜Π∗, ˜Πmem, ˜Πi). Suppose that the veriﬁer accepts with high-enough probabil-
ity. We argue that this implies that there exists w such that

iDPCP(˜π1), . . . ,
iDPCP(˜πk), x, wDPCP( ˜Π)

∈R. Speciﬁcally, we argue that ˜Π∗encodes indices
˜i[1], . . . ,˜i[k] and witness ˜w that place x in R and, additionally, each ˜πj is an
encoding of ˜i[j]. This completes the proof of decodability because iDPCP decodes
each ˜πj to ˜i[j], and these strings together with ˜w put x in the multi-indexed
relation R.
Let δPCPP be the PCPP’s proximity and δECC the code’s (relative) distance;
recall that δPCPP ≤δECC.
– Membership: We claim that there exist strings ˜i[1], . . . ,˜i[k] and ˜w that place
x in R and whose encoding has Hamming distance at most δPCPP from ˜Π∗;
since δPCPP ≤δECC, this implies that ˜Π∗decodes to (˜i[1], . . . ,˜i[k], ˜w). Sup-
pose towards contradiction that there are no such strings. In other words, for
every codeword Π∗that is close in Hamming distance to ˜Π∗we have that
M∗,x(x, Π∗) = 0. As a result the PCPP veriﬁer must reject with high prob-
ability, which contradicts our assumption that VPCP (which runs the PCPP
veriﬁer) accepts with high probability.

A PCP Theorem for Interactive Proofs and Applications
83
– Consistency: We claim that there exist strings ˜i[1], . . . ,˜i[k] and ˜w such that
their collective encoding is close to ˜Π∗and that, for every j ∈[k], ˜πj is close to
the encoding of ˜i[j]. As before, since the proximity parameter of the PCPP
is smaller than the distance of the code, this implies that ˜Π∗decodes to
(˜i[1], . . . ,˜i[k], ˜w) and that ˜πj decodes to ˜i[j]. Suppose towards contradiction
that for some j ∈[k] the above condition does not hold: for every πj and Π
such that πj is close to ˜πj and Π∗is close to ˜Π∗it holds that Mj(πj, Π∗) = 0.
By the soundness of the (multi-input) PCPP, the PCPP veriﬁer must reject
with high probability, which contradicts our assumption that VPCP (which
runs the PCPP veriﬁer) accepts with high probability.
Complexity Measures. The above construction is an index-decodable PCP with
polynomial-length proofs and where the veriﬁer makes O(1) queries to each indexer
proof and makes O(1) queries to the prover proof. Moreover, the prover proof has
alphabet size 2k since the prover bundles the PCPP consistency test proofs into
k-bit symbols; this bundling is possible because the veriﬁer shares randomness
between all of the (oblivious) PCPPs in the consistency test. Since the PCPPs are
oblivious to the index i, and they share randomness, they all must make the same
queries to their oracles. The veriﬁer uses O(log |x|) bits of randomness: O(log |x|)
for the membership test, and O(log |x|) for all k consistency tests combined.
Achieving Constant Query Complexity over a Binary Alphabet. We
describe how to achieve an index-decodable PCP with constant query complexity
per proof over the binary alphabet. The main tool is proof composition. In order
to apply proof composition, we deﬁne and construct a robust variant of index-
decodable PCPs.
Proof Composition. Proof composition is a technique to lower the query com-
plexity of PCPs [2] and IOPs [9]. In proof composition, an “inner” PCP is used
to prove that a random execution of the “outer” PCP would have accepted. The
inner PCP needs to be a PCPP, which is a PCP system where the veriﬁer has
oracle access to its input in addition to the prover’s proof, and the soundness
guarantee is that if the input is far from any input in the language, then the veri-
ﬁer accepts with small probability. To match this, the outer PCP must be robust,
which means that the soundness guarantee ensures that when the instance is not
in the language then not only is a random local view of the veriﬁer rejecting but
it is also far (in Hamming distance) from any accepting local view.
Typically the robust outer PCP has small proof length but large query com-
plexity, while the inner PCPP has small query complexity but possibly a large
proof length. Composition yields a PCP with small query complexity and small
proof length.
We observe that proof composition preserves decodability: if the outer PCP in
the composition is index-decodable, then the composed PCP is index-decodable.
This is because the composition operation does not change the outer PCP proof
and only adds a veriﬁcation layer to show that the outer veriﬁer accepts.

84
G. Arnon et al.
We thus apply proof composition as follows: the outer PCP is a robust variant
of the index-decodable PCP from Sect. 2.5; and the inner PCP is a standard
PCPP with polynomial proof length. This will complete the proof sketch of
Theorem 4.
Deﬁning Robust Index-Decodable PCPs. Our goal is to perform proof com-
position where the outer PCP is index-decodable. As mentioned above, this
requires the PCP to be robust. Our starting point is the index-decodable PCP
from Sect. 2.5. This PCP does have large query complexity over the binary alpha-
bet (O(k) queries to the prover proof). However, the fact that its queries to the
prover proof are already bundled into a constant number of locations over an
alphabet of size 2k implies that we do not have to worry about a “generic” query
bundling step and instead only have to perform a (tailored) robustiﬁcation step
prior to composition. Accordingly, the robustness deﬁnition below focuses on the
prover proof, and so is the corresponding construction described after.
Deﬁnition 2. A non-adaptive8 index-decodable PCP (IPCP, PPCP, (Vqry
PCP, Vdc
PCP),
iDPCP, wDPCP) for a multi-indexed relation R is prover-robustly index-
decodable with decodability bound κPCP and robustness σPCP if for every x and
proofs ˜Πi = (˜π1, . . . , ˜πk) and ˜Π if
Pr
ρ

∃A′ s.t. Vdc
PCP(x, ρ, ˜
Πi[Qi], A′) = 1 ∧Δ(A′, A) ≤σPCP(|x|) (Qi, Q∗) ←Vqry
PCP(x, ρ)
A := { ˜
Π[q] | q ∈Q∗}

> κPCP(|x|)
then

iDPCP(˜π1), . . . , iDPCP(˜πk), x, wDPCP( ˜Π)

∈R. Above Qi and Q∗are the
queries made to the indexer proofs the prover proof respectively and Δ(A′, A)
is the relative distance between A′ and A.
In other words, if

iDPCP(˜π1), . . . , iDPCP(˜πk), x, wDPCP( ˜Π)

/∈R then with high
probability not only will the veriﬁer reject but also any set of answers from the
prover proof that are close in Hamming distance to the real set of answers will
also be rejecting.
Robustiﬁcation. We outline how we transform the index-decodable PCP con-
structed in Sect. 2.5 into a robust index-decodable PCP. The techniques follow
the robustiﬁcation step in [15]. The transformation preserves the veriﬁer’s ran-
domness complexity O(log |x|), which facilitates using this modiﬁed PCP as the
outer PCP in proof composition.
We apply an error-correcting code separately to each symbol of the prover
proof. When the veriﬁer wants to read a symbol from this proof, it reads the
codeword encoding the symbol, decodes it, and then continues. It reads the
indexer proofs as in the original PCP. This makes the PCP robust because if
a few bits of the codeword representing a symbol are corrupted, then it will
still be decoded to the same value. The robustness, however, degrades with the
8 A PCP veriﬁer is non-adaptive if it can be split into two algorithms: V
qry
PCP chooses
which locations to query without accessing its oracles; and Vdc
PCP receives the results
of the queries and decides whether to accept or reject.

A PCP Theorem for Interactive Proofs and Applications
85
number of queries. If the relative distance of the error-correcting code is δ and
the original veriﬁer reads q symbols from the prover proof, then the resulting
PCP will have robustness O(δ/q).
Indeed, let c1, . . . , cq be the codewords read by the new PCP veriﬁer from the
prover proof, and let a1, . . . , aq be such that ai is the decoding of ci. In order to
change the decoding into some other set of strings a′
1, . . . , a′
q that, when received
by the veriﬁer, may induce a diﬀerent decision than a1, . . . , aq, it suﬃces (in the
worst case) to change a single codeword to decode to a diﬀerent value. Since
the relative distance of the code is δ, to do this, one must change at least a
δ-fraction of the bits of a single codeword, ci. A δ-fraction of a single codeword
is a δ/q-fraction of the whole string of q codewords, c1, . . . , cq.
In sum, to achieve constant robustness, we need to begin with an index-
decodable PCP with a small number of queries to the prover proof, but possi-
bly with a large alphabet. It is for this reason that we required this property
in Sect. 2.5.
2.6
Commit-and Prove SNARKs from Index-Decodable PCPs
We outline the proof of Theorem 3 by showing how to generically transform an
index-decodable PCP into a commit-and-prove SNARK. First, we review the
Micali transformation from PCPs to SNARGs. Then, we deﬁne commit-and-
prove SNARKs and explain the challenges in constructing them. Finally, we
outline how we overcome these challenges in our construction.
Review: The Micali Construction. The SNARG prover uses the random oracle
to Merkle hash the (long) PCP string into a (short) Merkle root that acts as
a commitment; then, the SNARG prover uses the random oracle to derive ran-
domness for the PCP veriﬁer’s queries; ﬁnally, the SNARG prover outputs an
argument string that includes the Merkle root, answers to the PCP veriﬁer’s
queries, and Merkle authentication paths for each of those answers (acting as
local openings to the commitment). The SNARG veriﬁer re-derives the PCP ver-
iﬁer’s queries from the Merkle root and runs the PCP veriﬁer with the provided
answers, ensuring that each answer is authenticated.
The security analysis roughly works as follows. Fix a malicious prover that
makes at most t queries to the random oracle and convinces the SNARG veriﬁer
to accept with probability δ. First, one argues that the malicious prover does not
ﬁnd any collisions or inversions for the random oracle except with probability
μ := O( t2
2λ ). Next, one argues that there is an algorithm that, given the malicious
prover, ﬁnds a PCP string that makes the PCP veriﬁer accept with probability
at least 1
t ·(δ−μ). This enables to establish soundness of the SNARG (if the PCP
has soundness error βPCP then for instances not in the language it must be that
1
t · (δ −μ) ≤βPCP and thus that the SNARG has soundness error t · βPCP + μ) and
also to establish knowledge soundness of the SNARG (if the PCP has knowledge
error κPCP then the PCP extractor works provided that 1
t · (δ −μ) ≥κPCP and
thus the SNARG is a SNARK with knowledge error t · κPCP + μ).

86
G. Arnon et al.
The aforementioned algorithm that ﬁnds the PCP string is known as Valiant’s
extractor (it was used implicitly in [55] and formally deﬁned and analyzed
in [12]). Given the query/answer transcript of the malicious prover to the ran-
dom oracle, Valiant’s extractor ﬁnds the partial PCP string that the malicious
prover “had in mind” when producing the SNARG: any location that the mali-
cious prover could open is part of the partial PCP string (and has a unique value
as we conditioned on the prover ﬁnding no collisions); conversely, any location
that is not part of the partial PCP string is one for which the malicious prover
could not generate a valid local opening. Crucially, the malicious prover, in order
to cause the SNARG veriﬁer to accept, must generate randomness by applying
the random oracle to the Merkle root, and answering the corresponding PCP
queries with authenticated answers. Hence the partial PCP string output by
Valiant’s extractor causes the PCP veriﬁer to accept with the same probability
as the malicious prover, up to (i) the additive loss μ due to conditioning on no
inversions and collisions, and (ii) the multiplicative loss of t due to the fact that
the malicious prover can generate up to t diﬀerent options of randomness for the
PCP veriﬁer and then choose among them which to use for the output SNARG.
Overall, while Valiant’s extractor cannot generate an entire PCP string, it ﬁnds
“enough” of a PCP string to mimic the malicious prover, and so the PCP string’s
undeﬁned locations can be set arbitrarily.
Commit-and-Prove SNARK. A CaP-SNARK (in the ROM) for an indexed rela-
tion R = {(i, x, w)} is a tuple ARG = (C, P, V) of deterministic polynomial-time
oracle machines, where C = (Com, Check) is a succinct commitment scheme,9
that works as follows. The committer sends a short commitment cm := C.Com(i)
to the veriﬁer. Subsequently, the prover sends a short proof pf := P(i, x, w)
attesting that it knows a witness w such that (i, x, w) ∈R and i is the index
committed in cm. The veriﬁer V receives (cm, x, pf) and decides whether to
accept the prover’s claim. Completeness states that, if all parties act honestly,
the veriﬁer always accepts.
The security requirement of a CaP-SNARK is (straight-line) knowledge
soundness. Informally, knowledge soundness says that if a query-bounded mali-
cious prover convinces the veriﬁer to accept the tuple (cm, x, pf) with large
enough probability, then the prover “knows” an index i opening cm and a wit-
ness w such that (i, x, w) ∈R. In more detail, we say that ARG = (C, P, V)
has knowledge error ϵ if there exists a deterministic polynomial-time machine
E (the extractor) such that for every λ ∈N, n ∈N, and deterministic t-query
(malicious) prover ˜P,
Pr
⎡
⎣
Vζ(cm, x, pf) = 1 ∧|x| = n ∧

(i, x, w) /∈R ∨C.Checkζ(cm, i, op) = 0

ζ ←U(λ)
(cm, x, pf; tr) := ˜Pζ
(i, op, w) := E(cm, x, pf, tr)
⎤
⎦≤ϵ(λ, n, t),
9 A pair of algorithms C = (Com, Check) is a succinct commitment scheme if: (1) it
is hard for every query-bounded adversary to ﬁnd two diﬀerent messages that pass
veriﬁcation for the same commitment string; and (2) the commitment of a message
of length n with security parameter λ has length poly(λ, log n).

A PCP Theorem for Interactive Proofs and Applications
87
where U(λ) is the uniform distribution over functions ζ : {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}λ and
tr := (j1, a1, . . . , jt, at) are the query/answer pairs made by ˜P to its oracle.
First Construction Attempt. At ﬁrst glance, constructing CaP-SNARKs using
index-decodable PCPs seems like a straightforward variation of Micali’s con-
struction of SNARGs from PCPs.
– C.Com: Apply the ID-PCP indexer IPCP to the index i and output the Merkle
root rti of its output.
– C.Check: Given a Merkle root rti and index i, check that C.Com(i) = rti.
– P: Compute the ID-PCP prover proof and a corresponding Merkle root; then
use the random oracle to derive randomness for the ID-PCP veriﬁer’s queries;
ﬁnally, output an argument string pf that includes the Merkle root, answers
to the veriﬁer’s queries, and authentication paths for each answer relative to
the appropriate Merkle root (for the indexer proof or for the prover proof).
– V: Re-derive the ID-PCP veriﬁer’s queries from the Merkle root and run
the ID-PCP veriﬁer with the provided answers, ensuring that each answer is
authenticated.
The main issue with this strawman construction is that we need to handle mali-
cious provers that have a partial tree in their query trace. Consider a malicious
prover that, for some (i, x, w) ∈R, computes honestly the indexer proof for i
as π := IPCP(i) and then generates as its “commitment” a Merkle tree root rti
obtained by computing a partial Merkle tree that ignores a small number of
locations of π (i.e., for a small number of locations it begins deriving the tree
from a level other than the leaves). While this malicious prover cannot open this
small number of locations of π, it can still open all other locations of π. Next, the
malicious prover generates honestly an argument string pf, opening the required
locations of π from rti. This malicious prover makes the argument veriﬁer accept
(w.h.p.) since the ID-PCP veriﬁer queries the small subset of locations that the
prover cannot open with small probability.
However, the only way to ﬁnd a string π′ that (honestly) hashes to rt is to ﬁnd
inversions in the random oracle, which is infeasible. Thus, there is no eﬃcient
extractor that, given rt and all of the queries that the prover made, outputs i′
whose indexer proof hashes to rt.
Solving the Problem via Proximity. We solve the above diﬃculty by modifying
the commitment scheme C = (Com, Check) and requiring more properties from
the underlying index-decodable PCP.
– C.Com: Compute π := IPCP(i) (apply the ID-PCP indexer to the index i)
and output the commitment cm := rti that equals the Merkle hash of π and
output the opening information op that consists of the list of authentication
paths for each entry in π.
– C.Check: Given a commitment cm = rti, index i, and opening information
op, check that op is a list of valid authentication paths for a number of entries
that is above a certain threshold, and that the partial string speciﬁed by them
decodes into i (when setting the unspeciﬁed values arbitrarily).

88
G. Arnon et al.
Now C.Check allows partial speciﬁcation of the string under the Merkle root,
so to preserve the binding property of the commitment scheme we require that
(IPCP, iDPCP) is an error correcting code. The threshold of the number of authen-
tication paths required is related to the distance of this code.
In the security analysis, Valiant’s extractor ﬁnds a partial PCP string that
makes the ID-PCP veriﬁer accept with probability related to the SNARG
prover’s convincing probability, as well as authentication paths for each entry
of that partial PCP string. To ensure that the number of authenticated entries
is large enough to pass the threshold in C.Check, we add another requirement:
if ˜π and ˜Π make the ID-PCP veriﬁer accept an instance x with probability
larger than the decodability bound then ˜π is close to a codeword of the code
(IPCP, iDPCP) (in addition to the fact that the decodings of ˜π and ˜Π put x in the
relation as is the case in the deﬁnition considered so far).
Our construction of index-decodable PCP supports these new requirements.
From an Index-Decodable PCP to a CaP-SNARK. Let (IPCP, PPCP, VPCP, iDPCP,
wDPCP) be an index-decodable PCP system where (IPCP, iDPCP) is an error cor-
recting code with relative distance δ and where indexer proofs are guaranteed
to be δ/8-close to valid codewords (when VPCP accepts above the decodability
bound). We construct a CaP-SNARK ARG = (C, P, V) as follows.
– C.Com: Given as input an index i, compute the indexer proof π := IPCP(i),
compute the Merkle root rti of a Merkle tree on π (using the random oracle
as the hash function), and output the commitment cm := rti and the opening
op containing all authentication paths.
– C.Check: Given as input a commitment cm := rti, an index i, and an opening
op containing authentication paths, do the following:
• check that op contains a list of authenticated entries relative to the Merkle
root rti;
• check that op represents at least a (1 −δ
8)-fraction of all possible entries
for a string under rti;
• let π be the string induced by the authenticated entries in op, setting
arbitrarily other entries;
• check that IPCP(i) is δ/4-close to π.
– P: Given as input (i, x, w), do the following:
• compute the commitment rti to the index i as the committer does;
• compute the PCP string Π := PPCP(i, x, w);
• compute the Merkle root rtw of a Merkle tree on Π;
• apply the random oracle to the string (rti||x||rtw) to derive randomness
for the index-decodable PCP veriﬁer VPCP, and compute the answers to
the veriﬁer’s queries to both π and Π;
• collect authentication paths from the Merkle trees for each answer; and
• output a proof pf containing rtw, query answers for π and Π and their
authentication paths.
– V: Check the authentication paths, re-derive randomness, and run the index-
decodable PCP veriﬁer with this randomness and given these answers.

A PCP Theorem for Interactive Proofs and Applications
89
The tuple C = (Com, Check) is a binding commitment scheme, as we now
explain. Consider an attacker that outputs cm := rt, two distinct messages m, m′,
and two openings op := S and op′ := S′ such that C.Checkζ( ˜
cm, m, op) = 1 and
C.Checkζ( ˜
cm, m′, op′) = 1. Condition on the attacker not ﬁnding collisions or
inversions of the random oracle ζ (as this is true with high probability). Since
S and S′ each pass the checks in C.Check, each set covers at least (1 −δ/8) of
the possible openings for a string. Therefore, their intersection covers at least
(1 −δ/4) of the possible openings. Since there are no collisions or inversions, S
and S′ agree on all of these locations. Thus, letting π and π′ be the strings deﬁned
using S and S′ respectively (as computed by C.Check), we have that Δ(π, π′) ≤
δ/4. Additionally, we have that that Δ(IPCP(m), π) ≤δ/4 and Δ(IPCP(m′), π′) ≤
δ/4 since C.Check accepts the commitments to m and m′, and this is one of the
checks it does. Putting all of this together, we have that Δ(IPCP(m), IPCP(m′)) ≤
δ/2 which implies that m = m′ since δ/2 is the unique decoding distance.
Completeness of the CaP-SNARK is straightforward. Below we outline the
extractor E, which receives as input a commitment cm := rti, an argument
string pf (containing the commitment rtw, query answers for π and Π, and
corresponding authentication paths with respect to rti and rtw), and the list tr
of query/answer pairs made by the malicious prover ˜P to the random oracle.
Use Valiant’s extractor to compute the set Si of all valid local openings of
rti that the prover could generate and similarly extract Sw from rtw. Let ˜π
be the string whose entries are deﬁned by the local openings generated of
rti (and whose undeﬁned entries are set arbitrarily to 0). Let ˜Π be deﬁned
similarly from the openings of rtw. Compute the index i := iDPCP(˜π) and
the witness w := wDPCP( ˜Π), and set op := Si. Output (i, op, w).
We show the following lemma. See the full version of this paper for a proof.
Lemma 1. Let κPCP be the decodability bound of the index-decodable PCP, t ∈N
be a bound on the number of queries made by a malicious prover ˜P, and λ ∈N
be a security parameter. Then the knowledge extractor E above has knowledge
error t · κPCP + O( t2
2λ ).
2.7
Hardness of Approximation
We outline our proof of Theorem 2 (it is AM[k]-complete to decide if an instance
of k-SSAT has value 1 or at most 1 −
1
O(k)). See Sect. 1.1 for deﬁnitions.
First we explain how an AM[k] protocol can distinguish whether a k-SSAT
instance has value 1 or value 1−
1
O(k). On input a k-SSAT instance φ, the prover
and veriﬁer take turns giving values to the variables: the veriﬁer sends ran-
dom bits ρ1,1, . . . , ρ1,ℓ, the prover answers with a1,1, . . . , a1,ℓ, the veriﬁer sends
ρ2,1, . . . , ρ2,ℓ, and so on until all of the variables of φ are given values. The veriﬁer
then accepts if and only if all of the clauses of φ are satisﬁed. For completeness, if
φ has value 1, then for any choice of veriﬁer messages there exists some strategy
for the prover that will make the veriﬁer accept. For soundness, when the value

90
G. Arnon et al.
of φ is at most 1−
1
O(k), no matter what strategy the prover uses, the probability
that the veriﬁer accepts is at most 1 −
1
O(k) (which can be made constant using
parallel repetition).
Next we show that, for every language L ∈AM[k], a given instance x can be
reduced in deterministic polynomial time to a k-SSAT formula φ such that:
– if x ∈L then the value of φ is 1;
– if x /∈L then the value of φ is at most 1 −
1
O(k).
By Theorem 1, L has a k-round public-coin IOP with a non-adaptive veriﬁer,
polynomial proof length, and logarithmic decision randomness where the IOP
veriﬁer reads q = O(k) bits of its interaction with the IOP prover. We stress
that in the following proof it is crucial that Theorem 1 achieves an IOP with
both logarithmic decision randomness complexity and small query complexity
to both the prover and veriﬁer messages.
Let Vρdc be the circuit that computes the decision bit of the veriﬁer given as
input the q answers to the q queries made by the IOP veriﬁer, for the instance x
and decision randomness ρdc. By carefully following the proof of Theorem 1, we
know that the IOP veriﬁer’s decision is the conjunction of O(k) computations,
each of which takes O(1) bits as input. Therefore d := |Vρdc| = O(k).
Via the Cook–Levin theorem we eﬃciently transform Vρdc into a 3CNF for-
mula φρdc : {0, 1}q+O(d) →{0, 1} of size O(d) the satisﬁes the following for every
b1, . . . , bq ∈{0, 1}:
– if Vρdc(b1, . . . , bq) = 1 then ∃z1, . . . , zO(d) ∈{0, 1} φρdc(b1, . . . , bq, z1, . . . ,
zO(d)) = 1;
– if Vρdc(b1, . . . , bq) = 0 then ∀z1, . . . , zO(d) ∈{0, 1} φρdc(b1, . . . , bq, z1, . . . ,
zO(d)) = 0.
Next we describe the k-SSAT instance φ. The variables of φ correspond
to messages in the IOP as follows. For each i ∈[k], the random variables
ρi,1, . . . , ρi,r represent the veriﬁer’s message in round i and the existential vari-
ables ai,1, . . . , ai,l represent the prover’s message in round i. To the ﬁnal set
of existential variables we add additional variables zρdc,1 . . . , zρdc,O(d) for every
ρdc ∈{0, 1}O(log |x|), matching the additional variables added when reducing the
boolean circuit Vρdc to the boolean formula φρdc. The k-SSAT instance φ is the
conjunction of the formulas φρdc for every ρdc ∈{0, 1}O(log |x|) where each φρdc has
as its variables the variables matching the locations in the IOP transcript that
the IOP veriﬁer queries given x and ρdc, and additionally the variables added by
converting Vρdc into a formula, zρdc,1 . . . , zρdc,O(d).
By perfect completeness of the IOP, if x ∈L then there is a prover strategy
such that, no matter what randomness is chosen by the veriﬁer, every Vρdc is
simultaneously satisﬁed, and hence so are the formulas φρdc, implying that the
value of φ is 1.
By soundness of the IOP, if x /∈L then (in expectation) at most a constant
fraction of the circuits {Vρdc}ρdc∈{0,1}O(log |x|) are simultaneously satisﬁable, and
thus this is also true for the formulas {φρdc}ρdc∈{0,1}O(log |x|). Every formula φρdc

A PCP Theorem for Interactive Proofs and Applications
91
that is not satisﬁed has at least one of its O(d) clauses not satisﬁed. Thus, the
value of φ is at most 1 −
1
O(d) = 1 −
1
O(k).
References
1. Arora, S., Lund, C., Motwani, R., Sudan, M., Szegedy, M.: Proof veriﬁcation and
the hardness of approximation problems. J. ACM 45(3), 501–555 (1998)
2. Arora, S., Safra, S.: Probabilistic checking of proofs: a new characterization of NP.
J. ACM 45(1), 70–122 (1998). Preliminary version in FOCS 1992
3. Babai, L.: Trading group theory for randomness. In: Proceedings of the 17th
Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, STOC 1985, pp. 421–429
(1985)
4. Babai, L., Fortnow, L., Levin, L.A., Szegedy, M.: Checking computations in poly-
logarithmic time. In: Proceedings of the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Theory
of Computing, STOC 1991, pp. 21–32 (1991)
5. Babai, L., Moran, S.: Arthur-merlin games: a randomized proof system, and a
hierarchy of complexity classes. J. Comput. Syst. Sci. 36(2), 254–276 (1988)
6. Bellare, M., Goldreich, O., Goldwasser, S.: Randomness in interactive proofs. In:
Proceedings of the 31st Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science,
FOCS 1990, pp. 563–572 (1990)
7. Ben-Sasson, E., Bentov, I., Horesh, Y., Riabzev, M.: Fast Reed-Solomon interactive
oracle proofs of proximity. In: Proceedings of the 45th International Colloquium
on Automata, Languages and Programming, ICALP 2018, pp. 14:1–14:17 (2018)
8. Ben-Sasson, E., Bentov, I., Horesh, Y., Riabzev, M.: Scalable zero knowledge with
no trusted setup. In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio, D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019. LNCS,
vol. 11694, pp. 701–732. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-26954-8 23
9. Ben-Sasson, E., Chiesa, A., Gabizon, A., Riabzev, M., Spooner, N.: Interactive
oracle proofs with constant rate and query complexity. In: Proceedings of the 44th
International Colloquium on Automata, Languages and Programming, ICALP
2017, pp. 40:1–40:15 (2017)
10. Ben-Sasson, E., Chiesa, A., Goldberg, L., Gur, T., Riabzev, M., Spooner, N.:
Linear-size constant-query IOPs for delegating computation. In: Hofheinz, D.,
Rosen, A. (eds.) TCC 2019. LNCS, vol. 11892, pp. 494–521. Springer, Cham (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-36033-7 19
11. Ben-Sasson, E., Chiesa, A., Riabzev, M., Spooner, N., Virza, M., Ward, N.P.:
Aurora: transparent succinct arguments for R1CS. In: Ishai, Y., Rijmen, V. (eds.)
EUROCRYPT 2019. LNCS, vol. 11476, pp. 103–128. Springer, Cham (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-17653-2 4
12. Ben-Sasson, E., Chiesa, A., Spooner, N.: Interactive oracle proofs. In: Hirt, M.,
Smith, A. (eds.) TCC 2016. LNCS, vol. 9986, pp. 31–60. Springer, Heidelberg
(2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53644-5 2
13. Ben-Sasson, E., Goldberg, L., Kopparty, S., Saraf, S.: DEEP-FRI: sampling outside
the box improves soundness. In: Proceedings of the 11th Innovations in Theoretical
Computer Science Conference, ITCS 2020, pp. 5:1–5:32 (2020)
14. Ben-Sasson, E., Goldreich, O., Harsha, P., Sudan, M., Vadhan, S.: Short PCPs
veriﬁable in polylogarithmic time. In: Proceedings of the 20th Annual IEEE Con-
ference on Computational Complexity, CCC 2005, pp. 120–134 (2005)

92
G. Arnon et al.
15. Ben-Sasson, E., Goldreich, O., Harsha, P., Sudan, M., Vadhan, S.P.: Robust PCPs
of proximity, shorter PCPs, and applications to coding. SIAM J. Comput. 36(4),
889–974 (2006)
16. Ben-Sasson, E., Sudan, M.: Short PCPs with polylog query complexity. SIAM J.
Comput. 38(2), 551–607 (2008)
17. Benarroch, D., et al.: Proposal: commit-and-prove zero-knowledge proof sys-
tems and extensions (2021). https://docs.zkproof.org/pages/standards/accepted-
workshop4/proposal-commit.pdf
18. Bootle, J., Cerulli, A., Ghadaﬁ, E., Groth, J., Hajiabadi, M., Jakobsen, S.K.:
Linear-time zero-knowledge proofs for arithmetic circuit satisﬁability. In: Takagi,
T., Peyrin, T. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2017. LNCS, vol. 10626, pp. 336–365. Springer,
Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-70700-6 12
19. Bootle, J., Chiesa, A., Groth, J.: Linear-time arguments with sublinear veriﬁcation
from tensor codes. In: Pass, R., Pietrzak, K. (eds.) TCC 2020. LNCS, vol. 12551,
pp. 19–46. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-64378-2 2
20. Bootle, J., Chiesa, A., Liu, S.: Zero-knowledge IOPs with linear-time prover and
polylogarithmic-time veriﬁer. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/1527 (2020)
21. Bordage, S., Nardi, J.: Interactive oracle proofs of proximity to algebraic geometry
codes. arXiv cs/2011.04295 (2021)
22. Campanelli, M., Fiore, D., Querol, A.: LegoSNARK: modular design and composi-
tion of succinct zero-knowledge proofs. In: Proceedings of the 26th Conference on
Computer and Communications Security, CCS 2019, pp. 2075–2092 (2019)
23. Canetti, R., Chen, Y., Holmgren, J., Lombardi, A., Rothblum, G.N., Rothblum,
R.D.: Fiat-Shamir from simpler assumptions. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report
2018/1004 (2018)
24. Chiesa, A., Hu, Y., Maller, M., Mishra, P., Vesely, N., Ward, N.: Marlin: prepro-
cessing zkSNARKs with universal and updatable SRS. In: Canteaut, A., Ishai, Y.
(eds.) EUROCRYPT 2020. LNCS, vol. 12105, pp. 738–768. Springer, Cham (2020).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-45721-1 26
25. Chiesa, A., Manohar, P., Spooner, N.: Succinct arguments in the quantum random
oracle model. In: Hofheinz, D., Rosen, A. (eds.) TCC 2019. LNCS, vol. 11892, pp.
1–29. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-36033-7 1
26. Chiesa, A., Ojha, D., Spooner, N.: Fractal: post-quantum and transparent recur-
sive proofs from holography. In: Canteaut, A., Ishai, Y. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2020.
LNCS, vol. 12105, pp. 769–793. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-45721-1 27
27. Condon, A., Feigenbaum, J., Lund, C., Shor, P.W.: Probabilistically checkable
debate systems and nonapproximability of PSPACE-hard functions. Chicago J.
Theor. Comput. Sci. 1995 (1995)
28. Condon, A., Feigenbaum, J., Lund, C., Shor, P.W.: Random debaters and the
hardness of approximating stochastic functions. SIAM J. Comput. 26(2), 369–400
(1997)
29. Costello, C., et al.: Geppetto: versatile veriﬁable computation. In: Proceedings of
the 36th IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, S&P 2015, pp. 250–273 (2015)
30. Dinur, I.: The PCP theorem by gap ampliﬁcation. J. ACM 54(3), 12 (2007)
31. Dinur, I., Reingold, O.: Assignment testers: towards a combinatorial proof of the
PCP theorem. In: Proceedings of the 45th Annual IEEE Symposium on Founda-
tions of Computer Science, FOCS 2004, pp. 155–164 (2004)

A PCP Theorem for Interactive Proofs and Applications
93
32. Drucker, A.: Eﬃcient probabilistically checkable debates. In: Goldberg, L.A.,
Jansen, K., Ravi, R., Rolim, J.D.P. (eds.) APPROX/RANDOM-2011. LNCS, vol.
6845, pp. 519–529. Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
642-22935-0 44
33. Drucker, A.: A PCP characterization of AM. In: Aceto, L., Henzinger, M., Sgall,
J. (eds.) ICALP 2011. LNCS, vol. 6755, pp. 581–592. Springer, Heidelberg (2011).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-22006-7 49
34. Drucker, A.: An improved exponential-time approximation algorithm for fully-
alternating games against nature. In: Proceedings of the 61st Annual IEEE Sym-
posium on Foundations of Computer Science, FOCS 2020, pp. 1081–1090 (2020)
35. Escala, A., Groth, J.: Fine-tuning Groth-Sahai proofs. In: Krawczyk, H. (ed.) PKC
2014. LNCS, vol. 8383, pp. 630–649. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-642-54631-0 36
36. Feige, U., Goldwasser, S., Lov´asz, L., Safra, S., Szegedy, M.: Interactive proofs and
the hardness of approximating cliques. J. ACM 43(2), 268–292 (1996). Preliminary
version in FOCS 1991
37. F¨urer, M., Goldreich, O., Mansour, Y., Sipser, M., Zachos, S.: On completeness
and soundness in interactive proof systems. Adv. Comput. Res. 5, 429–442 (1989)
38. Goldreich, O., Micali, S., Wigderson, A.: Proofs that yield nothing but their validity
or all languages in NP have zero-knowledge proof systems. J. ACM 38(3), 691–729
(1991). Preliminary version appeared in FOCS 1986
39. Goldreich, O., Vadhan, S., Wigderson, A.: On interactive proofs with a laconic
prover. Comput. Complex. 11(1/2), 1–53 (2002)
40. Goldwasser, S., Micali, S., Rackoﬀ, C.: The knowledge complexity of interac-
tive proof systems. SIAM J. Comput. 18(1), 186–208 (1989). Preliminary version
appeared in STOC 1985
41. Goldwasser, S., Sipser, M.: Private coins versus public coins in interactive proof
systems. In: Proceedings of the 18th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Com-
puting, STOC 1986, pp. 59–68 (1986)
42. Guruswami, V., Umans, C., Vadhan, S.P.: Unbalanced expanders and randomness
extractors from Parvaresh-Vardy codes. J. ACM 56(4), 20:1–20:34 (2009)
43. Haviv, I., Regev, O., Ta-Shma, A.: On the hardness of satisﬁability with bounded
occurrences in the polynomial-time hierarchy. Theory Comput. 3(1), 45–60 (2007)
44. Ishai, Y., Weiss, M.: Probabilistically checkable proofs of proximity with zero-
knowledge. In: Lindell, Y. (ed.) TCC 2014. LNCS, vol. 8349, pp. 121–145. Springer,
Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-54242-8 6
45. Lee, N., Wang, Y., Jiang, J.R.: Solving stochastic Boolean satisﬁability under
random-exist quantiﬁcation. In: Proceedings of the 26th International Joint Con-
ference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, IJCAI 2017, pp. 688–694 (2017)
46. Lipmaa, H.: Prover-eﬃcient commit-and-prove zero-knowledge SNARKs. Int. J.
Appl. Cryptogr. 3(4), 344–362 (2017)
47. Littman, M.L., Majercik, S.M., Pitassi, T.: Stochastic Boolean satisﬁability. J.
Autom. Reason. 27(3), 251–296 (2001)
48. Lund, C., Fortnow, L., Karloﬀ, H.J., Nisan, N.: Algebraic methods for interactive
proof systems. J. ACM 39(4), 859–868 (1992)
49. Majercik, S.M.: APPSSAT: approximate probabilistic planning using stochastic
satisﬁability. Int. J. Approximate Reasoning 45(2), 402–419 (2007)
50. Micali, S.: Computationally sound proofs. SIAM J. Comput. 30(4), 1253–1298
(2000). Preliminary version appeared in FOCS 1994
51. Papadimitriou, C.H.: Games against nature (extended abstract). In: 24th Annual
ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, STOC 1983, pp. 446–450 (1983)

94
G. Arnon et al.
52. Reingold, O., Rothblum, R., Rothblum, G.: Constant-round interactive proofs for
delegating computation. In: Proceedings of the 48th ACM Symposium on the The-
ory of Computing, STOC 2016, pp. 49–62 (2016)
53. Ron-Zewi, N., Rothblum, R.: Local proofs approaching the witness length. In:
Proceedings of the 61st Annual IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer
Science, FOCS 2020, pp. 846–857 (2020)
54. Shamir, A.: IP = PSPACE. J. ACM 39(4), 869–877 (1992)
55. Valiant, P.: Incrementally veriﬁable computation or proofs of knowledge imply
time/space eﬃciency. In: Canetti, R. (ed.) TCC 2008. LNCS, vol. 4948, pp. 1–18.
Springer, Heidelberg (2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-78524-8 1

