A Theory of Composition for Differential Obliviousness
Mingxun Zhou1
Elaine Shi1
T-H. Hubert Chan2
Shir Maimon3∗
1Carnegie Mellon University
2The University of Hong Kong
3Cornell University
Abstract
Differential obliviousness (DO) is a privacy notion which guarantees that the access patterns
of a program satisfies differential privacy. Differential obliviousness was studied in a sequence of
recent works as a relaxation of full obliviousness. Earlier works showed that DO not only allows
us to circumvent the logarithmic-overhead barrier of fully oblivious algorithms, in many cases,
it also allows us to achieve polynomial speedup over full obliviousness, since it avoids “padding
to the worst-case” behavior of fully oblivious algorithms.
Despite the promises of differential obliviousness (DO), a significant barrier that hinders its
broad application is the lack of composability. In particular, when we apply one DO algorithm
to the output of another DO algorithm, the composed algorithm may no longer be DO (with
reasonable parameters). Specifically, the outputs of the first DO algorithm on two neighboring
inputs may no longer be neighboring, and thus we cannot directly benefit from the DO guarantee
of the second algorithm.
In this work, we are the first to explore a theory of composition for differentially oblivious
algorithms. We propose a refinement of the DO notion called (ϵ, δ)-neighbor-preserving-DO, or
(ϵ, δ)-NPDO for short, and we prove that our new notion indeed provides nice compositional
guarantees. In this way, the algorithm designer can easily track the privacy loss when composing
multiple DO algorithms.
We give several example applications to showcase the power and expressiveness of our new
NPDO notion. One of these examples is a result of independent interest: we use the com-
positional framework to prove an optimal privacy amplification theorem for the differentially
oblivious shuffle model. In other words, we show that for a class of distributed differentially
private mechanisms in the shuffle-model, one can replace the perfectly secure shuffler with a DO
shuffler, and nonetheless enjoy almost the same privacy amplification enabled by a shuffler.
∗Randomized order. This paper subsumes part of the results in an unpublished manuscript [ZS22] written by a
subset of the authors. The work is partially done when Mingxun Zhou was a research intern at NTT Research.

1
Introduction
It is well-known that access patterns to even encrypted or secret-shared data can leak sensitive
information [IKK12,CGPR15,NKW15,GLMP19,KKNO16,GMN+16]. Initiated by Goldreich and
Ostrovsky [GO96, Gol87], oblivious algorithms is a line of work that aims to provably obfuscate
a program’s access patterns without incurring too much slowdown. In particular, obliviousness
(also referred to as full obliviousness) requires that a program’s access patterns be indistinguish-
able for any two inputs.
It is well-known that oblivious algorithms have broad applications,
including in multi-party computation [GKK+12, LWN+15], secure processors [RYF+13, MLS+13,
LHH+15,MPC+18,TGS22], secure outsourcing [WST12,SS13], databases [EZ19,AK14,CBC+18],
blockchains [CZJ+17], and so on. In the past decade, our community have significantly improved
the eﬀiciency of oblivious algorithms [SCSL11, SvS+13, WCS15], leading to large-scale real-world
adoption such as Signal’s private contact discovery [Con]. However, as we discuss below, in some
applications, the overhead of full obliviousness may still be unacceptable.
Differential Obliviousness (DO), defined by Chan, Chung, Maggs, and Shi [CCMS19], is re-
laxed notion of access pattern privacy. DO requires that the program’s access patterns satisfy only
differential privacy (DP) [DMNS06], as opposed to a simulation-based notion like in full oblivious-
ness [GO96,Gol87,SCSL11]. Recent works [CCMS19,BKK+21,CZSC21,BNZ19,GKLX22] explored
DO and showed how DO can allow us to circumvent fundamental performance barriers pertaining
to full obliviousness:
• Chan et al. [CCMS19] showed a fundamental separation in terms of eﬀiciency between DO and
full obliviousness. Specifically, for a class of common tasks such as compaction, merging, and
range query data structures, while full obliviousness is inherently subject to at least Ω(log N)
multiplicative overhead [LSX19, JLN19, AFKL19, FHLS19] (in comparison with the insecure
baseline), using DO allows us to reduce the overhead to only O(log log N) where N denotes the
data size.
• Not only does DO allow us to overcome the logarithmic barrier for fully oblivious algorithms,
another important aspect that is sometime overlooked is that DO allows us to overcome the
“worst-case barrier” of fully oblivious algorithms [CZSC21], which leads to polynomial speedup
over full obliviousness in many applications. Specifically, to achieve full obliviousness, we must
pad the running time and output length to the worst case over all possible inputs (of some fixed
length), whereas DO algorithms may reveal the noisy running time or output length. In many
real-world scenarios such as database joins [CZSC21], the common case enjoys much shorter
runtime and output length than the worst case. For exactly this reason, there is an entire line
of work that focuses on designing algorithms optimized for the common rather than the worst
case [Rou20]. In such cases, prior works showed that DO can achieve polynomial speedup over
any fully oblivious algorithm [CCMS19,CZSC21]!
Basic DO does NOT lend to composition.
Given the promises of DO, we would like to apply
DO to more applications. Unfortunately, the status quo of DO hinders its broad applicability due
to the lack of compositional guarantees. When designing algorithms, it is customary to compose
several algorithmic building blocks together. In such cases, it would be nice to say that the com-
posed algorithm also satisfies DO with reasonable parameters as long as the underlying algorithmic
building blocks also satisfy DO. Similarly, in some applications, we may need to apply a DO al-
gorithm to the outcome of another (e.g., the SQL database application below). In such cases, we
also want to be able to track the privacy loss over time. While the original full obliviousness notion
indeed allows such composition, unfortunately, the standard DO notion [CCMS19] does not!
1

As an explicit example of composition, imagine that we want to build a differentially oblivious
database supporting SQL queries. Consider the following natural SQL query where we want to
select entries from a table which in itself is the result of a previous Select operation1:
Select (id, position) from
(Select (id, dept, position) from Employees where salary > 200K)
where dept = "CS"
To support this query in a differentially oblivious manner, the most natural idea is to use the
DO stable compaction algorithm of Chan et al. [CCMS19] to realize each Select operator. In stable
compaction, we obtain an input array where each element is either a real element or a filler, and we
want to output an array containing all the real elements of the input and preserving the order they
appear in the input. Unfortunately, this approach completely fails since Chan et al. [CCMS19]’s
DO compaction algorithm does NOT compose.
To understand why, we will introduce some basic notation. Let M : X →Y denote an algorithm,
which takes in an input x ∈X, and produces an output y ∈Y.
Consider some neighboring notion
∼X defined over the input domain X. For example, let x, x′ ∈X be two input arrays/tables where
each entry corresponds to an individual user. One example is Hamming-distance neighboring: we
say that x ∼X x′ iff the Hamming distance of x and x′ is at most 1 — this is also the neighboring
notion adopted by the DO compaction algorithm of Chan et al. [CCMS19]. The standard DO
notion requires the following.
Definition 1.1 (Basic differential obliviousness [CCMS19]). We say that an algorithm M satisfies
(ϵ, δ)-DO w.r.t. some symmetric relation ∼X iff for any x, x′ ∈X such that x ∼X x′, for any subset
S,
Pr[ViewM(x) ∈S] ≤eϵ · Pr[ViewM(x′) ∈S] + δ,
(1)
where ViewM(x) is a random variable denoting the the memory access patterns observed when
running the algorithm M over the input x.
Now, imagine that we have two DO mechanisms M1 : X1 →X2 and M2 : X2 →Y (e.g., think
of M1 and M2 as Chan et al.’s DO compaction algorithm). We want to apply M2 to the output
of M1, and hope that the composed mechanism M2 ◦M1(·) satisfies DO. By the DO definition,
we know that M2 offers indistinguishability for two neighboring inputs from X2. Now, consider
two neighboring inputs x ∼X1 x′ from X1, and consider running the mechanism M1 over x and
x′, respectively. Unfortunately, the basic DO notion (of M1) does not guarantee that the outputs
M1(x) and M1(x′) are also neighboring. Therefore, we may not be able to benefit from the DO
property of M2!
We stress that this is not just a deficiency of the basic DO definition. Natural designs of DO
algorithms often do not guarantee that the outputs obtained from two neighboring inputs must be
neighboring too. For example, consider the stable compaction algorithm of Chan et al. [CCMS19].
Given two input arrays x = (1, 2, ⊥, 3, 4) and x′ = (⊥, 2, ⊥, 3, 4) with Hamming distance 1 where
⊥denotes a filler, the compacted outputs will be (1, 2, 3, 4) and (2, 3, 4), respectively. The outputs
have Hamming distance more than 1. While the outputs have large Hamming distance, the edit
distance is only one — unfortunately, Chan et al.’s compaction algorithm provides privacy only for
Hamming-distance neighboring and the guarantees do not generalize to edit-distance neighboring.
1Here we write the two Select statements in a single query for convenience, In practice, it could be that the first
Select query is interactively issued and its result stored as a temporary table, and then the second Select query is
interactively issued.
2

DP composition theorems do not work for DO.
Since DO is essentially DP applied to the
memory access patterns, a natural question is: can we simply use DP composition theorems to
reason about the composition DO mechanisms? The answer is no because DP composition and
composition of DO mechanisms are of different nature.
In DP composition, we have multiple
mechanisms M1, . . . , Mk where Mi satisfies (ϵi, δi)-DP. The basic DP composition theorem says
that the composed mechanism M(x) := (M1(x), . . . , Mk(x)) satisfies (Pk
i=1 ϵi, Pk
i=1 δi)-DP. Here,
all these mechanisms are applied to the same input x. In DO composition, we want to apply M2
to the output of of M1 instead. More generally, if there are k DO mechanisms M1, . . . , Mk, we want
to know whether the composed mechanism Mk ◦Mk−1 ◦. . . , ◦M1(x) = Mk(Mk−1(. . . M1(x))) is also
DO.
Given the status quo, we ask the following natural question:
Can we have suitable and useful refinements of differential obliviousness (DO) that lend to com-
position?
1.1
Main Contribution: A Theory of Composition for Differential Obliviousness
We are the first to initiate a formal exploration of the composability of differential obliviousness.
In this sense, we make an important conceptual contribution: by laying the groundwork for the
composition of DO algorithms. we hope that our work can allow DO to have wider applicability.
A new, composable DO notion.
Our first contribution is to introduce a new, composable
DO notion called Neighbor-Preserving Differential Obliviousness (NPDO) that can be viewed as
a strengthening of the basic DO by Chan et al. [CCMS19].
Our NPDO notion is composition
friendly in the following senses:
C1. If M1 satisfies (ϵ1, δ1)-NPDO, and M2 satisfies (ϵ2, δ2)-DO (the basic version), then the com-
posed mechanism M2 ◦M1 satisfies (ϵ1 + ϵ2, δ1 + δ2)-DO.
C2. If M1 satisfies (ϵ1, δ1)-NPDO, and M2 satisfies (ϵ2, δ2)-NPDO, then the composed mechanism
M2 ◦M1 satisfies (ϵ1 + ϵ2, δ1 + δ2)-NPDO.
In the above, the first property allows us to apply any basic-DO algorithm M2 to the output of
an NPDO algorithm M1, and the composed algorithm M2 ◦M1 would satisfy basic DO. The second
property allows us to perform composition repeatedly. In particular, if both M1 and M2 are NPDO,
then the composed algorithm M2 ◦M1 also satisfies NPDO, i.e., it can be further composed with
other DO or NPDO algorithms.
Finding the right notion turned out to be non-trivial. We want to capture the intuition that
“the algorithm should produce neighboring outputs for neighboring inputs”. However, it is not
obvious how to formally capture this idea of “neighbor-preserving” especially when the outputs of
the DO algorithm may be randomized. Indeed, naïve ways to define “neighbor-preserving” turned
out to be too stringent and preclude many natural and interesting algorithms (see Section 3.1). We
instead suggest a more general version that allows us to capture a probabilistic notion of neighbor-
preserving. More specifically, our NPDO notion requires that when one applies the algorithm M on
two neighboring inputs x and x′, the joint distribution of the adversary’s view and the output must
be distributionally close in some technical sense, where closeness is parametrized by some output
neighboring relation. The formal definition is presented below:
Definition 1.2 ((ϵ, δ)-NPDO). We say that an algorithm M : X →Y with view space V satisfies
(ϵ, δ)-NPDO w.r.t.
input relation ∼X and output relation ∼Y, if for any x, x′ ∈X such that
3

x ∼X x′, for any subset S ⊆V × Y,
Pr[ExecM(x) ∈S] ≤eϵ · Pr[ExecM(x′) ∈N(S)] + δ.
In the above, ExecM(x) samples a random execution of M on the input x, and returns the view (i.e.,
access patterns) as well as the algorithm’s output. Further, the notation N(S), i.e., the neighboring
set of S, is defined as follows:
N(S) = {(v, y)|∃(v, y′) ∈S s.t. y ∼Y y′}
Expressiveness of our notion.
We give various natural examples to demonstrate the expres-
siveness and power of our notion. We believe that our NPDO notion is indeed the right notion,
given the simplicity in form and its broad applicability. Besides the motivating SQL database ex-
ample mentioned earlier in this section, other notable examples include the design of a differentially
oblivious subsampling algorithm, a stable compaction algorithm that is DO w.r.t. edit distance,
and finally, proving an optimal privacy amplification theorem in the differentially oblivious shuffle
model. Since the last application is of independent interest even as a standalone result, we will
discuss the context and the implifications of this result separately in Section 1.2.
Proof of composition theorem.
Our second contribution is to prove the composition theorem:
Theorem 1.3 (Composition theorem). The aforementioned compositional properties C1 and C2
hold, as long as the algorithm M1’s view space and output space are finite or countably infinite.
The proof of the composition theorem is rather non-trivial. A key step in the proof is to show
the following equivalence (see Lemma 4.1). An algorithm M : X →Y (with at most countably
infinite view space V and output space Y) satisfies (ϵ, δ)-NPDO w.r.t. ∼X and ∼Y, if and only
if for any neighboring inputs x ∼X x′, there exists an (ϵ, δ)-matching between the the probability
spaces of the random variables ExecM(x) ∈V × Y and ExecM(x′) ∈V × Y. In an (ϵ, δ)-matching,
imagine that we have a (possibly countably infinitely large) bipartite graph where one side has
the sources, and the other side has the destinations. Both sources and destinations come from
the space V × Y. If there is an edge of weight w between some source and some destination, we
may imagine that the source wants to send w amount of commodity to the destination. Now,
each source (v, y) ∈V × Y produces an amount of commodity equal to Pr

ExecM(x) = (v, y)

,
and each destination (v, y′) can receive at most eϵ · Pr

ExecM(x′) = (v, y′)

amount of commodity.
Furthermore, a source (v, y) can be matched with a desitination (v′, y′) only if they are neighboring,
i.e., v = v′ and y ∼Y y′. We want to find a matching such that all but δ amount of commodity is
delivered to the destinations.
To prove this key equivalence lemma, we are inspired by techniques
used to prove the Hall’s marriage theorem [Hal35,HJ48]. Once we prove the key equivalence lemma,
we then rely on it to prove the composition theorem.
In the main body, we primarily focus on proving the composition theorem for statistical notions
of DO. In Appendix A, we further extend our composition theorem to support suitable, computa-
tional notions of differential obliviousness as well.
Finally, in our composition theorem, we assume that the view and output spaces of M1 are at
most countably infinitely large. This assumption is reasonable given that we primarily focus on
the standard word-RAM model of execution. It is indeed an interesting open question whether
we can remove this restriction and prove the composition theorem for uncountably large view and
output spaces — this is useful if we consider RAM machines that can handle real arithmetic.
In Appendix C, we discuss the additional technicalities that one might encounter if we wish to
remove the countable restriction.
4

1.2
Additional Result: Optimal Privacy Amplification in the DO-Shuffle Model
As an application of our composition framework, we use it to prove an optimal privacy amplifica-
tion theorem in the differentially oblivious shuffle (DO-shuffle) model. Since this result can be of
independent interest on its own, we explain the motivation and context below.
Background: privacy amplification in the shuffle model.
To understand the DO-shuffle
model, let us first review some background on the so-called shuffle model. Imagine that a set of
clients each hold some private data, and an untrusted server wants to perform some analytics over
the union of the clients’ data, while preserving each individual client’s privacy. Specifically, we
want to guarantee that for two neighboring input configurations of the clients denoted x and x′
respectively, the distributions of the server’s view are “close”.
The shuffle model, first proposed by Bittau et al. [BEM+17] in an empirical work, has become a
popular model for implementing distributed differentially private mechanisms. The model assumes
the existence of a trusted shuffler that takes the union of all clients’ messages, randomly permutes
them, and presents the shuffled result to the server. The server then performs some computation
and outputs the analytics result. The trusted shuffler guarantees that the server can only see the
union of all messages, without knowing the source of an individual message. Numerous earlier
works [BBGN19, CSU+19, Che21, GGK+21, GKMP21] have shown that the shuffle model often
enables differentially private mechanisms whose utility approximates the best known algorithms
in the central model (where the server is trusted and we only need privacy on the outcome of
the analytics).
Moreover, several works have shown that the trusted shuffler can be eﬀiciently
implemented either using trusted hardware [BEM+17] or using cryptographic protocols [Cha81,
Abe99, BG12, Cha88, CF10, APY20, CBM15, SW21, OS97, GIKM00, ZZZR05, EB21, RSG98, DS18,
CL05].
This makes the shuffle model a compelling approach not just in theory, but also in
practical applications such as federated learning [GDD+21].
A particular useful type of theorem in the shuffle model is called a privacy amplification theorem,
which we explain below.
Henceforth, let R(xi) be some differentially private mechanism each
client i applies to randomize its own private input xi (often called a locally differentially private
(LDP) randomizer).
Roughly speaking, a privacy amplification theorem makes a statement of
the following nature where S(·) denotes the shuffler that outputs a random permutation of the
inputs: if each client’s LDP mechanism R consumes ϵ0 privacy budget, then shuffler’s outcome
S(R(x1), . . . , R(xn)) satisfies (ϵ, δ)-DP for ϵ = ϵ(ϵ0, δ) ≪ϵ0, i.e., privacy is amplified for the
overall shuffle-model mechanism. A line of work [CSU+19,EFM+19,BBGN19] focused on proving
privacy amplification theorems for the shuffle model, culminating in the recent work by Feldman
et al. [FMT22], who proved a privacy amplification theorem for any LDP mechanism with optimal
parameters.
Connection between the shuffle model and our DO composition framework.
We realize
that the shuffle model can be expressed with our DO composition framework. Consider a composed
mechanism S ◦M1. M1 : X n →Yn is a local randomization mechanism that takes n clients’ inputs
(x1, . . . , xn) and outputs the message sequence (y1, . . . , yn) where yi = R(xi). S : Yn →Yn is a
shuffling mechanism that takes a message sequence (y1, . . . , yn) and outputs a random permutation
of the sequence. All computation in M1 are done by the clients locally, so we define ViewM1 := ∅.
We define the view in S as exactly its output: the random permutation. Then, the view of the
server in the shuffle model is exactly the same as the view of the adversary in S ◦M1.
Thus,
(ϵ, δ)-shuffle-DP guarantee can be expressed by S ◦M1 being (ϵ, δ)-DO w.r.t the input neighboring
notion ∼X where x ∼X x′ iff the Hamming distance is at most 1.
5

Can we replace the shuffler with a DO-shuffler?
A couple very recent works [GKLX22,
BHMS21,ALU18] have suggested a relaxed shuffler model called the differentially oblivious shuffle
model (or DO-shuffle model for short). Unlike the traditional shuffle model which provides full
anonymity on the clients’ messages, the DO-shuffle model permutes the clients’ messages but possi-
bly allowing some differentially private leakage. More concretely, a DO-shuffle protocol guarantees
that for two neighboring input vectors xH and x′
H corresponding to the set of honest parties, the
adversary’s views in the protocol execution are computationally or statistically close. The recent
works by Gordon et al. [GKLX22] and Bünz et al. [BHMS21] both show that the relaxed DO-shuffle
can be asymptotically more eﬀicient to cryptographically realize than a fully anonymous shuffle. It
would therefore be desirable to use a DO-shuffler as a drop-in replacement of the perfectly secure
shuffle. This raises a couple very natural questions:
• If we were to replace the shuffler in shuffle-model differentially private mechanisms with a
DO-shuffler, can we still get comparable privacy-utility tradeoff?
• More specifically, can we prove an optimal privacy amplification theorem for the DO-shuffle
model, matching the parameters of Feldman et al. [FMT22]?
The pioneering work of Gordon et al. [GKLX22] was the first to explore how to use a DO
shuffler to design distributed differentially private mechanisms. Gordon et al. [GKLX22] showed
two novel results. First, they prove an optimal privacy amplification theorem for the randomized
response mechanism in the DO-shuffle model, with parameters that tightly match the shuffle-model
counterpart. Next, they generalize their first result, and prove a privacy amplification theorem for
any local differentially private (LDP) mechanism — however, this more general result is non-
optimal, since they rely on the non-optimal shuffle-model amplification theorem from Balle et
al. [BBGN19].
Our results.
We prove a privacy amplification theorem for any LDP mechanism that achieves
optimal parameters, tightly matching Feldman et al. [FMT22]’s privacy amplification parameters
for the shuffle model. This result improves work of Gordon et al. [GKLX22] in the following senses:
1) we asymptotically improve their privacy amplification theorem for any general LDP mechanism;
and 2) their privacy amplification theorem for the specific randomized response mechanism can be
viewed as a special case of our general theorem. More interestingly, we can prove our result fully
under our DO composition framework. The curx of the proof is to show that the local randomization
mechanism M1 is (ϵ, δ)-NPDO w.r.t the output neighboring notion being exactly the DO-shuffler’s
input neighboring notion. Then, when M1 composes with an (ϵ1, δ1)-DO shuffler, the composed
mechanism will be (ϵ + ϵ1, δ + δ1)-DO.
Below, we give a more formal statement of our result. Let Φ denote a DO-shuffling protocol.
Given an LDP-randomizer R(·), we use the notation Π(x1, . . . , xn) := Φ(R(x1), . . . , R(xn)) to
denote the composed protocol where each of the n parties first applies the local randomizer R(·) to
its own private data, and then invokes an instance of the DO-shuffling protocol Φ on the outcome
R(xi).
Theorem 1.4 (Optimal privacy amplification for any LDP mechanism in the DO-shuffle model).
Suppose ϵ0 ≤log

n
16 log(2/δ)

. Given n copies of an ϵ0-LDP randomizer R and an (ϵ1, δ1)-DO shuf-
fler Φ resilient to t corrupted parties, the composed protocol Π(x1, . . . , xn) := Φ(R(x1), . . . , R(xn))
is (ϵ + ϵ1, δ + δ1)-DO against up to t corrupted parties where
ϵ = O
 
(1 −eϵ0)eϵ0/2p
log(1/δ)
√n −t
!
.
6

Furthermore, if the DO-shuffler satisfies computational (or statistical, resp.) DO, then the composed
protocol satisfies computation (or statistical, resp.) DO.
Further, if the underlying DO-shuffle protocol satisfies semi-honest security [GKLX22,ALU18],
then the composed protocol is also secure in a semi-honest corruption model. Similarly, if the
underlying DO-shuffle satisfies malicious security (e.g., [ALU18, BHMS21]), then the composed
protocol is also secure in a malicious model.
2
Model and Preliminaries
2.1
Model of Computation
We consider a standard Random Access Machine (RAM) model of computation.
We use the
standard word-RAM model where the word size is logarithmic in the space.
We assume that
addition, multiplication, and boolean operations on words can be done in constant time. We also
assume that sampling from truncated geometric distributions can be done in constant time2. We
assume that the adversary can observe the memory access patterns of the algorithm, including
which locations are read or written and in which time steps. The adversary cannot see the contents
of the memory tape themselves, which also means that the adversary cannot see the contents of
the input and output.
Format of input and output tape.
We explain the format of the input and output tape —
the modeling technicalities are without loss of generality, and matter if we want to mask the true
input and output lengths.
In the most general model, the algorithm may or may not be able to observe the input and
output length, depending on the algorithm. More specifically, we may assume that the input is
written on an input tape — the input tape itself has unbounded length and the actual length of the
input is written on some dedicated location, e.g., address 0, of the input tape. The algorithm can
read address 0 to learn the actual input length. During the execution, the algorithm may read a
random number of extraneous locations on the input tape, such that the adversary may not be able
to observe the exact input length. We assume that every extraneous location on the input tape
stores a filler symbol ⊥.
The algorithm must write the output on an output tape. Again, the algorithm, may write a
random number of extraneous locations on the output tape. For example, if the actual output length
is m, the algorithm may actually write m′ > m locations on the output tape where m′ is a random
variable, to mask the true output length. To indicate the actual output length, the algorithm can
write the actual output length m on some dedicated location of the output tape. By doing so, the
adversary may not be able to observe the exact output length.
2.2
Preliminaries
Mathematical tools.
We introduce some basic mathematical tools.
Definition 2.1 (Symmetric geometric distribution). Let α > 1. The symmetric geometric distri-
bution Geom(α) takes integer values such that the probability mass function at k is α−1
α+1 · α−|k|.
2Based on Appendix B of [CZSC21], we can obliviously sample a truncated geometric variable in expected time
of O( 1
ϵ log 1
δ ). Further, we can sample M truncated geometric variables in time O((M/ϵ) log(1/δ)) with probability
1 −negl(M). Our algorithms described in Section 5 only need to sample
ϵL
(log2 L log(1/δ)) + O(1) truncated geometrics.
Therefore, all our runtime bounds(i.e., Theorem 5.2 and Theorem 5.6) hold in expectation and with high probability
without assuming sampling in constant time.
7

In designing DO algorithms, we often pad the true output length with random fillers such that
the adversary observes a randomized output length.
Below, we define a shifted and truncated
geometric distribution which is often used to sample the number of fillers used for padding. In
particular, this distribution always gives non-negative and bounded random variables.
Definition 2.2 (Shifted and truncated geometric distribution). Let ϵ > 0 and δ ∈(0, 1) and ∆≥1.
Let k0 be the smallest positive integer such that Pr[|Geom(e
ϵ
∆)| ≥k0] ≤δ, where k0 = ∆
ϵ ln 2
δ +O(1).
The shifted and truncated geometric distribution G(ϵ, δ, ∆) has support [0, 2(k0 + ∆−1)], and is
defined as:
min{max{0, k0 + ∆−1 + Geom(eϵ)}, 2(k0 + ∆−1)}
For the special case ∆= 1, we write G(ϵ, δ) := G(ϵ, δ, 1).
Common distance notions.
We will also use a couple common distance notions in our examples,
including Hamming distance and edit distance.
Definition 2.3 (Hamming distance neighboring ∼H). We say that two arrays x, x′ are neighboring
by the Hamming distance iff 1) they have the same length; and 2) they differ in at most one position.
Definition 2.4 (Edit distance neighboring ∼E). We say that two arrays x, x′ are neighboring by
the edit distance iff x′ can be obtained from x through either one insertion, one deletion, or one
substitution. Note that x and x′ need not have the same length.
Notations for randomized execution.
Given randomized mechanisms M1 : X →Y and M2 :
Y × Z, the composed mechanism M2 ◦M1 : X →Z works as follows: for input x ∈X, we first
apply M1(x) to produce an intermediate y ∈Y, and then we apply M2(y).
Henceforth, given an algorithm M : X →Y, and an input x ∈X, we often use the following
random variables:
• The random variable ViewM(x) : X →V denotes the memory access patterns (also called the
view) observed by the adversary when M receives the input x, where V is the view space for M.
• The notation ExecM(x) : X →V × Y is a random variable that outputs the view and the output
over a random execution of M(x).
3
A Composition Framework for DO
In this section, we explore what kind of DO notions are composition-friendly. As a warmup, we
first suggest a simple notion called strongly neighbor-preserving (or strongly NP for short), and
show that any DO algorithm that is strongly NP lends to composition. The strong NP notion,
however, is too stringent. We then propose a more general notion called (ϵ, δ)-neighbor-preserving
differential obliviousness or (ϵ, δ)-NPDO for short, which captures a probabilistically approximate
notion of neighbor-preserving. We then present our main composition theorem which states that
any algorithm that satisfies NPDO lends to composition. Along the way, we give several simple
motivating examples to demonstrate the usefulness our compositional framework.
8

3.1
Strongly Neighbor-Preserving
3.1.1
Definition and Composition Theorem
Earlier, in Section 1, we argued why basic DO algorithms do not lend to composition, because
neighboring inputs may lead to very dissimilar outputs. One (somewhat imprecise) intuition is the
following: if a DO mechanism is additionally neighbor-preserving, i.e., neighboring inputs lead to
neighboring outputs, then it should lend to composition.
We first define strongly neighbor-preserving that running the algorithm over two neighboring
inputs produces neighboring outputs with probability 1.
Definition 3.1 (Strongly neighbor-preserving). We say that a randomized algorithm M : X →Y is
strongly neighbor-preserving w.r.t. ∼X and ∼Y, iff for any two inputs x, x′ ∈X such that x ∼X x′,
Pr[y ←M(x), y′ ←M(x′) : y ∼Y y′] = 1.
We can prove that if an algorithm satisfies both DO and strongly neighbor-preserving, then it
is composable, formally stated below.
Theorem 3.2 (Strongly neighbor-preserving + DO gives composition). Suppose that M1 : X →Y
is (ϵ1, δ1)-DO w.r.t. ∼X and strongly neighbor-preserving w.r.t. ∼X and ∼Y, and moreover, suppose
that M2 : Y →Z is (ϵ2, δ2)-DO w.r.t. ∼Y, then M2 ◦M1 satisfies (ϵ1 + ϵ2, δ1 + δ2)-DO w.r.t. ∼X .
Furthermore, if M2 is additionally strongly neighbor-preserving w.r.t. ∼Y and ∼Z, then M2 ◦M1
is also strongly neighbor-preserving w.r.t. ∼X and ∼Z.
Proof. Later in Lemma 3.7 of Section 3.4, we will prove that (ϵ1, δ1)-DO plus strongly neighbor-
preserving is a special case of our more general notion (ϵ1, δ1)-NPDO. In this sense, this composition
theorem can be viewed as a special case of our main composition theorem for NPDO (Theorem 3.6).
3.1.2
Composition Examples
Example 1.
Recall that in Section 1, we gave a natural SQL database example that required
applying one compaction algorithm on the output of another compaction algorithm. We pointed
out that two sequential instances of Chan et al.’s DO compaction algorithm [CCMS19] do not give
(tight) composable guarantees. In Example 1, we will see that if we replace the second instance
with a modification of the compaction algorithm such that it is DO w.r.t. edit distance (as opposed
to Hamming distance), the two instances would compose nicely.
Specifically, let M1 be Chan et al.’s DO compaction algorithm [CCMS19].
Recall that the
algorithm receives an input array where each element is either a real element or a filler, and outputs
an array containing all the real elements in the input and preserving the order they appear in the
input.
M1 is (ϵ1, δ1)-DO w.r.t. ∼H (i.e., Hamming distance). Now, suppose we can construct
another compaction algorithm denoted M2 that is (ϵ2, δ2)-DO w.r.t. to ∼E (i.e., edit distance).
How to construct such an M2 while preserving eﬀiciency turns out to be non-trivial, and we defer
the construction to Section 5 — interestingly, designing M2 itself demonstrates the usefulness of
our composition framework, too.
Observe that given a fixed input array x, the output of M1(x) must be an ordered list of
real elements contained in x plus an appropriate number of fillers, and the total length of the
9

output3 is the same as the input x. Thus, for any neighboring inputs x ∼H x′, it must be that
M1(x) ∼E M2(x′). Therefore, we conclude that M1 is strongly neighbor-preserving w.r.t. the input
relation ∼H and the output relation ∼E. Applying Theorem 3.2, we conclude that the composed
mechanism M2 ◦M1 satisfies (ϵ1 + ϵ2, δ1 + δ2)-DO.
Example 2.
Let M1 be an algorithm that merges two sorted input arrays (x0, x1), where each
element in the input array has a payload besides the sort-key.
Suppose that M1 satisfies (ϵ1, δ1)
differential obliviousness w.r.t.
2∼E, i.e., two inputs (x0, x1) and (x′
0, x′
1) are considered neighboring
iff for b ∈{0, 1}, |xb| = |x′
b|, and xb and x′
b have edit distance at most 2 (i.e., xb
2∼E x′
b). Such an
DO merge algorithm was proposed by Chan et al. [CCMS19], and moreover, their algorithm always
outputs an array whose length is the sum of the input arrays. Notice that for neighboring inputs,
M1 always produces outputs that have edit distance at most 4.
Let M2 be a stable tight compaction algorithm that selects elements from the input array whose
payload string satisfies a certain predicate (e.g., entries corresponding to students in the computer
science department). Suppose that M2 satisfies (ϵ2, δ2)-DO w.r.t.
4∼E, i.e., where neighboring inputs
are those with edit distance at most 4 — such an M2 is described in Section 5.
By Theorem 3.2, we conclude that the composed mechanism M2◦M1 satisfies (ϵ1+ϵ2, δ1+δ2)-DO
w.r.t.
2∼E.
Remark 3.3 (Capturing k-neighboring relations). Recall that our strongly neighbor-preserving
definition (i.e., Definition 3.1) is parametrized with the input and output relations. Example 2
is used to illustrate the case when the these input/output relations are parametrized with a k-
neighboring notion (rather than 1-neighboring) — this shows the generality of the approach. For
example, later in Section 5 , we will construct an eﬀicient stable compaction algorithm that is
(ϵ, δ)-DO w.r.t. to
1
∼E neighboring. Applying the standard group privacy theorem of differen-
tial privacy [DR14], we can get a a compaction algorithm that is (4ϵ, 4e4ϵδ)-DO w.r.t.
to
4
∼E
neighboring.
3.1.3
Limitations
The strong neighbor-preserving requirement (i.e., Definition 3.1) is natural and directly captures
our intuition that if a DO mechanism maps neighboring inputs to neighboring outputs, then it
is composable. The strongly neighbor-preserving requirement is often suitable when the output
computed by the algorithm is deterministic (i.e., uniquely determined by the inputs), even though
the algorithm itself may be randomized, like Examples 1 and 2.
However, the strongly neighbor-preserving requirement may be too stringent especially when the
output of the algorithm may be randomized. For example, consider the following DO subsampling
algorithm.
Example 3.
We consider the task of subsampling, which is widely used in private data analyt-
ics [BBG18,WBK21]: given an input array x, we want to sample each entry with probability p, and
generate a new array with only the sampled elements. Consider a subsampling algorithm where n
denotes the length of the input array x:
1. Call M1(x) := InPlaceSample(x) which is defined as follows: Scan the input array x. For each
real element encountered, append it to the output tape with probability p and append a filler
element otherwise. For each filler element encountered, just append a filler to the output tape.
3Even though the algorithm M1 itself is randomized, the output of M1 is deterministic and unique given the input.
10

2. Apply M2, a compaction algorithm that is (ϵ′, δ′)-DO w.r.t. ∼H to the output of the above step.
We want to prove that the above algorithm satisfies DO w.r.t. ∼H through composition —
intuitively, this should be true. In particular, the first subroutine M1 := InPlaceSample has deter-
ministic access patterns. We explicitly denote M1(·; ρ) to fix the random tape ρ consumed by M1.
For any fixed random tape ρ, and any neighboring inputs x ∼H x′, M1(x; ρ) and M1(x′; ρ) output
two arrays with Hamming distance 1. Therefore, intuitively, as long as the compaction algorithm
in the second step is (ϵ′, δ′)-DO w.r.t. Hamming distance, the entire subsampling algorithm should
be (ϵ′, δ′)-DO as well. Unfortunately, we cannot directly use strong neighbor-preserving to prove
this composition here, since a random execution of M1(x) and a random execution of M1(x′) are
not guaranteed to always output Hamming-distance-neighboring outputs — it depends on which
subset of elements are selected.
This motivates us to relax the strongly neighbor-preserving to make it more general, such that
our compositional framework can be more expressive. However, before we do so, we introduce an-
other more general example, Example 4, which is a variation of Example 3. Specifically, in Example
3, although the output of M1 := InPlaceSample is randomized, the view of M1 is deterministic. In
Example 4, both the view and the output of the first algorithm are randomized.
Example 4.
The main difference between Examples 3 and 4 is that Example 4 aims to have a
subsampling algorithm that is DO w.r.t. edit distance, whereas Example 3 aims to be DO w.r.t.
Hamming distance. To achieve this, in Example 4, we need to mask the true length of the input and
output by reading/writing a random number of extraneous locations on the input tape, Further,
the compaction algorithm we call must now be DO w.r.t. edit distance too. The detailed algorithm
is described below. The key differences are highlighted by underlining.
1. Call M1(x) := InPlaceSampleϵ,δ(x) which is defined as follows:
• Sample r $←G(ϵ, δ, ∆= 1), let n′ = n + r be the noisy input length.
• Scan n′ locations on the input tape. For each real element encountered, append it to the out-
put tape with probability p and append a filler element otherwise. For each filler encountered,
append a filler to the output tape.
• The output array is defined to be the first n elements of the output tape.
Write down its length n at a fixed dedicated location on the output tape.
2. Apply M2, a compaction algorithm that is (ϵ′, δ′)-DO w.r.t. ∼E to the output of the above step,
i.e., the compaction algorithm treats the output tape of M1 as its own input tape.
We later prove that Examples 3 and 4 satisfy DO with our new framework.
3.2
(ϵ, δ)-Neighbor-Preserving Differential Obliviousness (NPDO)
Recognizing the limitations of strongly neighbor-preserving (Definition 3.1), we would like to make
the compositional framework more general. In particular, the above Examples 3 and 4 can serve
as simple motivating examples.
Given a mechanism M whose view space is V and output space is Y, given some symmetric
relation ∼Y over the output space, and given a set S ⊆V × Y, we define the following notation for
denoting neighbor sets:
N(S) :=

(v, y′)|∃(v, y) ∈S s.t. y′ ∼Y y
	
11

Definition 3.4 ((ϵ, δ)-NPDO). Given a mechanism M : X →Y with view space V, we say that it
satisfies (ϵ, δ)-neighbor-preserving differential obliviousness, or (ϵ, δ)-NPDO for short, w.r.t. sym-
metric relations ∼X and ∼Y, respectively, iff for all x ∼X x′, for every S ⊆V × Y,
Pr[ExecM(x) ∈S] ≤eϵ · Pr[ExecM(x′) ∈N(S)] + δ.
(2)
Our NPDO definition looks similar in form as the standard differential privacy notion, with
some important observations: 1) the notion is defined over the Cartesian product of the view and
the output of the mechanism, which is important for composition to hold; 2) on the right-hand-side
of Equation (2), we consider the probability of M(x′) landing in the neighboring set N(S) on a
neighboring input x′ ∼X x — this is important for capturing a probabilistic notion of neighbor-
preserving.
It is not hard to see that if an algorithm satisfies (ϵ, δ)-NPDO, it must satisfy (ϵ, δ)-DO, as
stated in the following theorem.
Theorem 3.5. Suppose that M : X →Y satisfies (ϵ, δ)-NPDO w.r.t. X and Y. Then, M satisfies
(ϵ, δ)-DO w.r.t. X .
Proof. Let V be the sample space of ViewM. Consider all those Sv ⊆V. We know N(Sv × Y) =
Sv × Y. Therefore,
Pr[ViewM(x) ∈Sv] = Pr[ExecM(x) ∈Sv × Y]
≤eϵ Pr[ExecM(x′) ∈N(Sv × Y)] + δ = eϵ Pr[ViewM(x′) ∈Sv] + δ.
3.3
Main Composition Theorem
One main technical contribution of our paper is to prove a composition theorem for our NPDO
notion, as stated below.
Theorem 3.6 (Main composition theorem). Suppose that an algorithm M1 : X →Y satisfies
(ϵ1, δ1)-NPDO w.r.t. ∼X and ∼Y. Further, suppose that the algorithm M1’s view space V and the
output space Y are finite or countably infinite.
Then, the following composition statements hold:
1. Suppose that M2 : Y →Z satisfies (ϵ2, δ2)-DO w.r.t.
∼Y.
Then, the composed mechanism
M2 ◦M1 : X →Z satisfies (ϵ1 + ϵ2, δ1 + δ2)-DO.
2. Suppose that M2 : Y →Z satisfies (ϵ2, δ2)-NPDO w.r.t.
∼Y and ∼Z.
Then, the composed
mechanism M2 ◦M1 : X →Z satisfies (ϵ1 + ϵ2, δ1 + δ2)-NPDO.
The proof of Theorem 3.6 is presented in Section 4. We can use Theorem 3.6 to prove that the
algorithms in the earlier Examples 1 to 4 satisfy DO. Before doing so, let us first introduce some
helpful tools for proving an algorithm NPDO.
3.4
Helpful Tools for Proving NPDO
To use our main composition theorem, we need to prove that some algorithm satisfies NPDO. The
following lemmas provide helpful tools for this purpose.
12

Strongly NP + DO =⇒NPDO.
First, it is not hard to see that if an algorithm satisfies
the earlier strongly neighbor-preserving notion (Definition 3.1) as well as DO, then it also satisfies
NPDO as stated below:
Lemma 3.7 (Strongly NP and DO imply NPDO). Suppose that an algorithm M : X →Y is
strongly neighbor-preserving w.r.t. ∼X and ∼Y, as well as (ϵ, δ)-DO w.r.t. ∼X . Then, M satisfies
(ϵ, δ)-NPDO.
Proof. Fix a pair of neighboring input x, x′. By the strongly neighbor-preserving definition, for any
y, y′ ∈Y such that Pr[M(x) = y] > 0 and Pr[M(x′) = y′] > 0, it must be that y ∼Y y′. For any
subset S ⊆V × Y, define the partial set V (S) := {v|∃(v, y) ∈S}. Then, we have
Pr[ExecM(x) ∈S] ≤Pr[ViewM(x) ∈V (S)]
≤eϵ Pr[ViewM(x′) ∈V (S)] + δ ≤eϵ Pr[ExecM(x′) ∈N(S)] + δ.
(ϵ, δ)-NP.
Next, we define another notion that captures the idea of “probabilistically approximate
neighbor-preserving” called (ϵ, δ)-neighbor-preserving, or (ϵ, δ)-NP for short. We show that if an
algorithm satisfies (ϵ, δ)-NP as well as (ϵ′, δ′)-DO, then it also satisfies (ϵ + ϵ′, δ + δ′)-NPDO.
Definition 3.8 ((ϵ, δ)-NP). Given a mechanism M : X →Y whose view space is V, we say that
it satisfies (ϵ, δ)-neighbor-preserving, or (ϵ, δ)-NP for short, w.r.t. ∼X and ∼Y, iff for all x ∼X x′,
for every view v∗∈V that happens with non-zero probability in ExecM(x) as well as ExecM(x′), for
every Y ⊆Y,
Pr[(v, y) ←ExecM(x) : y ∈Y |v = v∗]
≤eϵ · Pr[(v′, y′) ←ExecM(x′) : y′ ∈N(Y )
v′ = v∗] + δ
(3)
where N(Y ) contains all y′ such that y′ ∼Y y for all y ∈Y .
Intuitively, (ϵ, δ)-NP requires that conditioned on any view, the algorithm, on neighboring
inputs, must output probabilistically approximately close outputs.
Lemma 3.9 ((ϵ, δ)-NP and DO imply NPDO). Suppose that an algorithm M : X →Y is (ϵ1, δ1)-
DO and (ϵ2, δ2)-neighbor-preserving w.r.t. ∼X and ∼Y. Then, M satisfies (ϵ1 + ϵ2, δ1 + δ2)-NPDO
w.r.t ∼X and ∼Y.
Proof. We slightly abuse the notation of N(·) to denote the “neighbor set” for Y and also the
V × Y, as defined in Definition 3.8 and Definition 3.4. Fix a pair of neigboring input x, x′. For
any S ⊆V × Y, denote the partial set Sv = {y |∃(v, y) ∈S}. Let µ(v) = min(Pr[ViewM(x) =
v], eϵ1 Pr[ViewM(x′) = v]). It’s trivial that P
v∈V µ(v) ≤1. Also, since M is (ϵ1, δ1)-DO, we have
13

P
v∈V µ(v) ≥1 −δ1. Then,
Pr[ExecM(x) ∈S]
=
X
v∗∈V
Pr[ViewM(x) = v∗] Pr[(v, y) ←ExecM(x) : y ∈Sv∗|v = v∗]
≤δ1 +
X
v∗∈V
µ(v∗) Pr[(v, y) ←ExecM(x) : y ∈Sv∗|v = v∗]
≤δ1 +
X
v∗∈V
µ(v∗)(eϵ Pr[(v′, y′) ←ExecM(x′) : y′ ∈N(Sv∗)
v′ = v∗
+ δ2)
≤δ1 + δ2 +
X
v∗∈V
µ(v∗)(eϵ Pr[(v′, y′) ←ExecM(x′) : y′ ∈N(Sv∗)
v′ = v∗
)
≤δ1 + δ2 +
X
v∗∈V
eϵ1 Pr[ViewM(x′) = v∗]eϵ2 Pr[(v′, y′) ←ExecM(x′) : y′ ∈N(Sv∗)
v′ = v∗
=δ1 + δ2 + eϵ1+ϵ2 Pr[ExecM(x′) ∈N(S)].
3.5
Our Composition Theorem in Action
Using the simple motivating examples introduced so far, we can see our composition theorems in
action.
Examples 1 and 2.
As mentioned earlier, the first algorithm M1 in either Example 1 or Example
2 satisfies strongly neighbor-preserving as well as (ϵ1, δ1)-DO. Therefore, they can be viewed as
a special case of (ϵ, δ)-NPDO. Since M2 in Example 1 or 2 satisfies (ϵ2, δ2)-DO, by our main
composition theorem, we immediately reach the conclusion that the composed algorithm M2 ◦M1
satisfies (ϵ1 + ϵ2, δ1 + δ2)-DO.
Example 3.
We can use Theorem 3.6 to prove that the subsampling algorithm of Example 3
satisfies (ϵ′, δ′)-DO w.r.t. ∼H. To accomplish this, it suﬀices to show that the first algorithm,
M1 := InPlaceSample, satisfies (0, 0)-NPDO w.r.t. ∼H and ∼H. Observe that in Example 3, two
inputs are neighboring if their Hamming distance is at most 1, which implies that neighboring
inputs must have the same length. Also, M1 always generates a deterministic view that depends
only on the length of the input. Therefore, to prove that M1(x) satisfies (0, 0)-NPDO, it suﬀices to
show that for any pair of neighboring inputs x ∼H x′, for any subset of outputs Y ⊆Y where Y is
the output space of M1,
Pr[M1(x) ∈Y ] ≤Pr[M1(x′) ∈N(Y )],
(4)
where N(Y ) denotes the set of all output arrays that are neighboring to some array in Y . Observe
also that for any possible output y of M1(x), let ρ be the random coins used for subsampling that
led to the result y, then, if the same random coins ρ is encountered in an execution of M1(x′) on
some neighboring x′ ∼H x, the outcome must be neighboring to y. Therefore, Equation (4) holds.
Example 4.
Similarly, we can use Theorem 3.6 to prove that the subsampling algorithm of
Example 4 satisfies (ϵ + ϵ′, δ + δ′)-DO w.r.t. ∼E. By Theorem 3.6, it suﬀices to show that the
M1 := InPlaceSampleϵ,δ algorithm in Example 4 satisfies (ϵ, δ)-NPDO w.r.t. ∼E being both of the
14

input and output neighboring notion. Recall that M1 pads the input array with a random number
of elements, such that the noisy length is n′. Then, it simply scans through the n′ elements and
either writes down the element if it is a real element and has been sampled, or writes down ⊥.
To show that M1 satisfies (ϵ, δ)-NPDO, we will prove that M1 satisfies (0, 0)-NP and (ϵ, δ)-DO,
respectively, and then the conclusion follows from Lemma 3.9. It is easy to prove that M1 satisfies
(ϵ, δ)-DO. To see this, observe that the view depends only on the noisy input length where the
noise is sampled according to a truncated geometric distribution.
Therefore, we focus on showing that M1 satisfies (0, 0)-NP. Observe that in M1, the random
coins that determine the view and those that determine the output are independent. Therefore, it
suﬀices to show that for any x ∼E x′, for any Y ⊆Y where Y is the output space of M1,
Pr[M1(x) ∈Y ] ≤Pr[M1(x′) ∈N(Y )].
Since x ∼E x′, there can be at most one element in x that is not in x′ (e.g., the element that is
added or modified in x), and vice versa. Henceforth, we use Common(x, x′) to denote the list of
common elements that appear both in x and x′. Let G(Y ) be the event that there exists some
y ∈Y , such that the elements in Common(x, x′) receive the same sampling decision as in y. We also
say that G(Y ) represents the event that Common(x, x′) receive coins compatible with Y . Therefore,
we have that
Pr[M1(x) ∈Y ] ≤Pr[M1(x) : G(Y )] ≤Pr[M1(x′) ∈N(Y )].
In the above, the second inequality holds since conditioned on Common(x, x′) receiving coins com-
patible with Y in a random execution of M1(x′), the outcome must be neighboring to some element
in Y with probability 1.
Additional applications.
Later in Section 5 , we use our composition framework to design a
differentially oblivious stable compaction algorithm w.r.t. the edit distance — this building block
was needed in Examples 1, 2, 4. Last but not the least, in Section 6 , we use our composition
framework to prove an optimal privacy amplification theorem for the DO-shuffle model.
4
Proof of Main Composition Theorem
In this section, we shall prove our main composition theorem, that is, Theorem 3.6. A key stepping
stone is the following equivalence lemma.
Lemma 4.1 (Equivalence of (ϵ, δ)-NPDO and existence of an (ϵ, δ)-matching). Assume the axiom
of choice. Given a finite or countable infinite sample space Ωand a symmetric relation ∼on Ω,
consider two random variables A, B ∈Ω. The following statements are equivalent:
1. For every S ⊆Ω, Pr[A ∈S] ≤eϵ · Pr[B ∈N(S)] + δ, where the neighbor set N(S) is defined as
N(S) := {b ∈Ω|∃a ∈S, a ∼b}.
2. There exists an (ϵ, δ)-matching w : Ω× Ω→[0, 1] satisfying the following conditions:
(a) For all a, b ∈Ω, w(a, b) > 0 only if a ∼b;
(b) For all a ∈Ω, P
b∈Ω,b∼a w(a, b) ≤Pr[A = a];
(c) For all b ∈Ω, P
a∈Ω,a∼b w(a, b) ≤eϵ · Pr[B = b];
(d) P
a,b∈Ωw(a, b) ≥1 −δ.
15

Graph interpretation.
Lemma 4.1 has a similar flavor as the Hall’s theorem for bipartite graphs.
The Hall’s theorem says that if for each subset S of one component of a bipartitie graph, the size
of its neighbor set satisfies |N(S)| ≥|S|, then we can find a perfect matching in the graph. The
proof of Lemma 4.1 is also inspired by the proof of the Hall’s theorem.
We think of a bipartite graph where vertices on the left and right both come from the set Ω,
and w(a, b) defines the weight on edge (a, b). Imagine that each vertex a ∈Ωon the left is factory
that produces Pr[A = a] amount of produce, and each vertex b ∈Ωon the right is a warehouse that
can store up to eϵ · Pr[B = b] amount of produce. Condition (a) says that a factory is only allowed
to route its produce to neighboring warehouses. The function w effectively defines a fractional flow
such that almost all, i.e., 1 −δ amount of produce is routed to some warehouse, and moreover,
none of the warehouses exceed their capacity. For this reason, we also call w an (ϵ, δ)-matching.
The full proof of Lemma 4.1 is deferred to Appendix B.2. Below, we prove our main composition
theorem assuming that Lemma 4.1 holds.
Proof of Theorem 3.6. We directly prove the more general case when M2 is (ϵ2, δ2)-NPDO. When
M2 is only (ϵ2, δ2)-DO, we can prove M2◦M1 is (ϵ1 +ϵ2, δ1+δ2)-DO with nearly the same argument.
Fix any neighboring input x, x′. By Lemma 4.1, there exists an (ϵ1, δ1)-matching w : (V1 ×Y)×
(V1 ×Y) →[0, 1] w.r.t the natural neighbor notion ∼in the product space V1 ×Y: (v1, y) ∼(v′
1, y′)
when v1 = v′
1 and y ∼Y y′. We want to prove that, for any subset S ⊆V1 × V2 × Z,
Pr[ExecM2◦M1(x) ∈S] ≤eϵ1+ϵ2 Pr[ExecM2◦M1(x′) ∈N(S)] + δ1 + δ2.
Define the partial set Sv1 := {(v2, z)|∃(v1, v2, z) ∈S} for any v1 ∈V1. Then,
Pr[ExecM2◦M1(x) ∈S]
=
X
(v1,y)∈V1×Y
Pr[ExecM1(x) = (v1, y)] · Pr[ExecM2(y) ∈Sv1]
(Use condition (a), (b) and (d) of the matching)
≤
X
(v1,y)∈V1×Y,y′∼Yy
w
 (v1, y), (v1, y′)

· Pr[ExecM2(y) ∈Sv1] + δ1
≤
X
(v1,y)∈V1×Y,y′∼Yy
w
 (v1, y), (v1, y′)

·

eϵ2 Pr[ExecM2(y′) ∈N(Sv1)] + δ2

+ δ1
(Use condition (b) of the matching)
≤
X
(v1,y)∈V1×Y,y′∼Yy
w
 (v1, y), (v1, y′)

·

eϵ2 Pr[ExecM2(y′) ∈N(Sv1)]

+ δ2 + δ1
(Use condition (c) of the matching)
≤
X
(v1,y′)∈V1×Y
eϵ1 Pr[ExecM1(x′) = (v1, y′)] ·

eϵ2 Pr[ExecM2(y′) ∈N(Sv1)]

+ δ2 + δ1
=eϵ1+ϵ2 Pr[ExecM2◦M1(x′) ∈N(S)] + δ2 + δ1.
5
Application: DO Compaction w.r.t. Edit Distance
Earlier in our Examples 1, 2, and 4, we assumed a stable compaction algorithm that is differ-
entially oblivious w.r.t.
the edit distance.
Chan et al. [CCMS19] showed how to construct a
16

stable compaction algorithm that is (ϵ, δ)-DO w.r.t.
the Hamming distance [CCMS19], taking
O(n(log log n + log log 1
δ)) time to compact an array of size n (assuming that ϵ is a constant).
However, we are not aware of any straightforward way to modify their algorithm to work for edit
distance. Another naïve approach is to use oblivious sorting directly but this would incur Θ(n log n)
runtime which is asymptotically worse. In this section, we fill in this missing piece that is needed
by Examples 1, 2, and 4.
We will describe a stable compaction algorithm that works for edit
distance and it preserves the runtime of Chan et al. [CCMS19]. Intriguingly, the design of our
new compaction algorithm turns out to be a great example that demonstrates the power of our
compositional framework.
5.1
Additional Preliminaries
Stable compaction.
Recall that in stable compaction, we are given an input array which is
written on an input tape. Some elements in the input array are real elements, and others are fillers.
We want to output an array that contains only the real elements, and they must appear in the
same order as the input array. We assume that the input array is written on the input tape, and its
true length is written on some designated location on the input tape. The algorithm should write
the output array to an output tape, and the true length of the output array should be written to
some dedicated location on the output array.
Stable Oblivious Sorting.
Suppose we are given an input array I containing a list of m elements
with a key attached to each element. Earlier works [CGLS18,LSX19] showed how to oblivious sort
the array according to the keys in O(m log m) runtime while maintaining the stable property: the
elements will be ordered by their relative order in the original array when their keys are the same.
Differentially private prefix sum.
Given an input array I containing a list of m integers,
we want to its prefix sums. We say that two inputs I, and I′ are neighboring iff 1) they have
the same length and 2) they differ in at most one position j, and |I[j] −I′[j]| ≤1.
Earlier
works [DNPR10, CSS10] showed how to construct a prefix sum mechanism that satisfies (ϵ, δ)-
differential privacy, and moreover, the mechanism satisfies the following properties: 1) The access
patterns (i.e., view) of the algorithm depend only on the input length; 2) The additive error is
upper bounded by O
  1
ϵ(log |I|)1.5 log 1
δ

with probability 1.
5.2
Roadmap and Intuition
Our algorithm Compact is the composition of the following two algorithms, i.e., Compact(·) =
CompactBin ◦RandBin(·). Suppose we can prove that RandBin is (ϵ1, δ1)-NPDO and prove that
CompactBin is (ϵ2, δ2)-NPDO, we have Compact is (ϵ1 + ϵ2, δ1 + δ2)-NPDO due to our main com-
position theorem 3.6.
1. RandBin: Given an input array I containing real elements and fillers, and whose true length
is stored in a dedicated location on the input tape, RandBin outputs a list of B bins denoted
(Bin(Z)
i
: i ∈[B]), each of capacity Z. Each bin contains a random number of real elements and
the rest are fillers. Furthermore, the ordered list of all real elements in all bins is the same as
the ordered list of real elements in the input. The algorithm should output the parameters B
and Z to some dedicated location on the output tape.
2. CompactBin: Given a list of B bins denoted (Bin(Z)
i
: i ∈[B]) each of capacity Z, where the
parameters B and Z are stored in some dedicated location on the input tape, the CompactBin
17

algorithm outputs a compacted array containing only the real elements in the input bins, and
preserving the same order they appear in the input bins. The algorithm outputs the true output
length to some dedicated location on the output tape.
In short, RandBin is a pre-processing step that takes the input array and converts it into bin
format, and CompactBin takes the bin representation, and performs the actual compaction. The
informal intuition is as follows. From earlier work [CCMS19], we know how to construct an eﬀicient
DO stable compaction algorithm for Hamming distance. However, in our case, we have two inputs I
and I′ that have edit distance 1. The diﬀiculty with edit distance is when I is obtained by inserting
an extra element into I′ at position j, the two inputs I and I′ will differ in every position after j. Our
idea is to leverage RandBin to “probabilistically localize” this difference caused by a single insertion
operation. In particular, if some bin representation occurs for input I with some probability p, we
want that under the neighboring input I′, with probability close to p, we should encounter a similar
bin representation where the difference is localized to only one or two bins. If we can accomplish
this, then hopefully we can adapt ideas that worked for Hamming distaince [CCMS19] to compact
the resulting bin representation.
Below, we will define an appropriate neighboring notion ∼B on the bin representation. We
want to show that the RandBin pre-processing step satisfies NPDO w.r.t. the input relation ∼E
and output relation ∼B for the bin representation. Further, we want to show that CompactBin
satisfies NPDO w.r.t.
∼B and ∼H.
Then, the composed algorithm should be NPDO by our
composition theorem.
Neighboring relation for bin representation ∼B.
Specifically, the neighboring relation ∼B
is defined as below. Two lists of bins (Bin(Z)
i
: i ∈[B]) and (Bin
′(Z′)
i
: i ∈[B′]) are said to be
neighboring, iff the following all hold:
• they have compatible dimensions, i.e., B = B′ and Z = Z′;
• After removing all fillers and concatenating the real elements in the list of bins, the resulting
outcomes have edit distance at most one;
• There are at most two bins that have different bin loads (defined to be the number of real
elements in the bin), further, for both of them, the difference in load is at most one.
5.3
RandBin Algorithm
We now describe the RandBin algorithm, which preprocesses the input array into a bin representa-
tion.
RandBinϵ,δ(I):
// Let ϵ1 = ϵ2 = ϵ3 = ϵ
3, and δ1 = δ2 = δ3 = δ
3.
• Sample G $←G(ϵ1, δ1). Let L = |I| + G be the noisy input length. Let s = 15
ϵ log2 L log 1
δ be
an upper bound on the support of G(ϵ2, δ2) and also the additive error of PreﬁxSumϵ3,δ3 on
at most L integers. Let the maximum bin load be Z = 2s and B = ⌈2L
Z ⌉+ 1 be the number
of bins.
• For i = 1 to B, let ρi
$←s + G(ϵ2, δ2) ∈[ Z
2 . . . Z]. Let ρ := (ρ1, ρ2, . . . , ρB).
• Let cnt := PreﬁxSumϵ3,δ3(ρ) ∈ZB. Let Buf := ∅be a working buffer.
• For i = 1 to B:
18

– fetch the unvisited elements in the input array up to indexa cnt[i] + s and add them to
Buf; mark them as visited.
– if the current length of Buf is less than Z, append enough fillers such that its length is
at least Z;
– perform stable oblivious sorting on Buf such that the first Z positions contains only
the real elements coming from the first P
j≤i ρi positions in the input and fillers; all
remaining elements are moved to the end of Buf.
– pop the first Z elements of Buf to Bini.
– perform stable oblivious sorting on Buf to move all the fillers to the end, if necessary,
truncate Buf such that its length is at most 2s.
• Output the bin representation (Bin(Z)
i
: i ∈[B]), and store the parameters B and Z in some
dedicated location on the output tape.
aWe may assume that any location in the input array beyond the original length |I| is occupied by a filler.
Roughly speaking, the RandBin algorithm generates a list of random counts ρ := (ρ1, . . . , ρB).
Then, all real elements contained in the first ρ1 positions of the input are moved into Bin1, all
real elements contained in the next ρ2 positions of the input are moved into Bin2, and so on. To
guarantee differential obliviousness, the algorithm cannot directly reveal the vector ρ — instead, it
reveals only the noisy prefix sum of ρ. Specifically, we apply an (ϵ3, δ3)-differentially private prefix
sum algorithm to the vector y, i.e., cnt := PreﬁxSumϵ3,δ3(Y ). In other words, cnt[i] stores a noisy
version of P
j≤i ρi, and it is guaranteed that the estimation error is at most s. Now, in each step i
of the algorithm, we want to populate Bini. To do so, we simply fetch the next batch of elements
in the input array up to position cnt[i] into a poly-logarithmically sized working buffer Buf. Buf
also contains previously fetched elements that have not been placed into any bin yet. We can now
obliviously sort Buf to create the next Bini. At the end of each step i, it is guaranteed that there
are at most 2s real elements remaining in Buf. Therefore, we can obliviously sort Buf and compact
its length to 2s. This makes sure that Buf is always poly-logarithmic in size. Finally, to make the
algorithm secure, we also need to mask the true input length, and we can accomplish this by adding
a truncated geometric random noise to the true length, and revealing only the noisy length. Note
that the number of bins B is a random variable that depends only on the noisy input length.
Theorem 5.1. The RandBin algorithm always outputs the correct bin representation:
For all
i ∈[B], all real elements from I
hP
j<i ρj + 1
i
to I
hP
j≤i ρj
i
are moved to Bini. Also, all real
elements in the input array are moved to the bins.
Theorem 5.2. Assuming |I| ≥c
ϵ log 1
δ for any fix constant c, RandBin has a worst-case runtime of
O
 |I|
 log log |I| + log 1
ϵ + log log 1
δ

.
Theorem 5.3. RandBin is (ϵ, δ)-NPDO w.r.t. the input neighboring notion ∼E and the output
neighboring notion ∼B.
The above theorems’ proofs are deferred to Appendix B.3.
5.4
CompactBin Algorithm
We now describe the CompactBin algorithm which takes in a bin representation, outputs a com-
pacted array, and writes the true length of the output to some dedicated location on the output
tape.
19

CompactBinϵ,δ 
(Bin(Z)
i
: i ∈[B])

:
// Let ϵ1 = ϵ
2, δ1 =
δ
2(1+eϵ1).
• Let s =
4
ϵ1 log2 B log 2
δ1 , be an upper bound of the additive error of (ϵ1, δ1)-differentially
private prefix sums on at most B integers.
• Let R := (Ri : i ∈[B]), where Ri is the number of real elements in Bini. Call cnt :=
PreﬁxSumϵ1,δ1(R).
• Let Buf and the output array be initially empty. For i = 1 to B:
– Read the i-th bin and append it to the end of Buf.
– Perform stable oblivious sorting on Buf such that all real elements are moved to the
front.
– Let L be the current length of the output array.
Remove an appropriate number of
elements from the beginning of Buf and append them to the output array, such that the
output array has length exactly max(cnt[i] −s, L).
– Truncate Buf if necessary such that its length is at most 2s.
• Append Buf to the end of the output array. Write the true output length P
i∈[B] Ri to some
dedicated location on the output tape.
To gain some intuition, basically in each step i, the CompactBin algorithm reads the next
bin i, and tries to copy the real elements in bin i to the end of the output array.
To achieve
differential obliviousness, the algorithm cannot reveal the true number of real elements inside each
bin. Therefore, it calls a differentially private prefix sum mechanism to compute an array cnt[1 : B]
where cnt[i] is an estimate of the number of real elements contained in the first i bins. The prefix
sum algorithm guarantees that the estimation error is upper bounded by s. Therefore, at the end
of the i-th step, the algorithm should have written exactly cnt[i] −s number of real elements to the
output array. To accomplish this, the algorithm makes use of a temporary working buffer Buf that
is used to store the real elements that have been fetched from the input bins but have not been
appended to the output array. It guarantees that at the end of each step, there are at most 2s real
elements leftover in Buf.
Theorem 5.4. With probability 1, the output of CompactBin includes all the real elements from
the B input bins with their order preserved and the filler elements in the output array only appear
after the last real element.
Theorem 5.5. CompactBinϵ,δ is (ϵ, δ)-NPDO w.r.t. the input neighboring relation ∼B and output
neighboring relation ∼E.
Theorem 5.6. CompactBin has a worst-case runtime of O(B(Z + s) log(Z + s)).
The above theorems’ proofs are deferred to Appendix B.3.
From the RandBin algorithm, BZ = O(|I|), Z = Θ(s), and s = O( 1
ϵ log2 |I| log 1
δ). By Theo-
rem 5.2 and Theorem 5.6, the following corollary holds:
Corollary 5.7. Assuming |I| ≥c
ϵ log 1
δ for any fix constant c, then the full compaction algorithm
Compactϵ,δ := CompactBinϵ/2,δ/2◦RandBinϵ/2,δ/2 has a worst-case runtime of O
 |I|
 log log |I| + log 1
ϵ + log log 1
δ

.
20

6
Application: Optimal Privacy Amplification in the Differentially
Oblivious Shuffle Model
In this section, we use our composition framework to prove a privacy amplification theorem for the
differentially oblivious shuffle (DO-shuffle) model.
Background.
Consider a distributed setting with n clients and an untrusted server who wants to
learn some statistics of the clients’ private data. To achieve this, the differential privacy literature
proposed two models for achieving this. In the local model, each client adds some noise to its own
data by running an ϵ0-locally differentially private (LDP) mechanism, and sends the noisy result
the server. The server then computes the desired statistics using each client’s noisy input. In the
local model, the server’s view satisfies ϵ0-DP.
Some more recent works [CSU+19, Che21, GGK+21, GKMP21] considered a new model called
the shuffle model. In this model, we assume that a trusted shuffler can shuffle all of the clients’
messages, and the server only sees the permuted messages (without learning the permutation).
Interestingly, earlier works [CSU+19,Che21,GGK+21,GKMP21] showed that the shuffle model can
amplify privacy. In particular, suppose each client still runs an ϵ0-locally differentially private (LDP)
mechanism before sending the noisy outcomes to the shuffler, then the server’s view would satisfy
(ϵ, δ)-DP where ϵ can be much smaller than ϵ0. Notably, the recent work of Feldman et al. [FMT22]
proved optimal parameters for privacy amplification in a perfectly secure shuffle model, that is, it
can achieve (ϵ, δ)-DP with any δ > 0 and ϵ = O

(1 −e−ϵ0)eϵ0/2
q
log(1/δ)
n

. In this section, our
goal is to show that the perfectly secure shuffle in privacy amplification can be replaced with a
much weaker, (ϵ, δ)-differentially oblivious shuffle, without degrading the amplification guarantees
(except for extra ϵ and δ additive factors that arise from the differentially oblivious shuffler itself).
To benefit from the shuffle model, we need to realize the shuffle either using trusted hardware or
through a cryptographic protocol. Some recent works [GKLX22,BHMS21,ALU18] showed that it
may be asymptotically more eﬀicient to realize a relaxed shuffler that satisfies differential oblivious-
ness than a perfectly secure shuffler. Therefore, a natural question is whether we can also enjoy the
same degree of privacy amplification with a differentially oblivious shuffler rather than a perfectly
secure shuffler. We explore this question in the remainder of this section.
6.1
Definitions
Suppose that the server and the clients jointly execute a protocol to realize a shuffler. The syntax
of a shuffle protocol is defined below.
Definition 6.1 (Syntax of a shuffle protocol). A protocol between a server and n clients each with
some input from X is said to be a shuffle protocol, iff under an honest execution, the server outputs
a random permutation of the clients’ inputs.
Before defining security, we need to define the adversary’s capabilities and the view of the
adversary. We assume that an adversary A may control up to t clients as well as the server, we
define the random variable ViewA(xH) to mean the view of the adversary during an execution where
the honest clients’ inputs are xH ∈X n−t. The view of the adversary A should include whatever
the adversary can observe during the execution. Specifically, the view include the server’s output,
all messages sent and received by the corrupted clients and the server. Further, the view may
include any additional information the adversary can observe. For example, if the adversary can
observe honest-to-honest communication (e.g., a network adversary), then, the view should also
21

include the honest-to-honest communication. For a protocol secure in the semi-honest model, we
assume that the corrupt players will honestly follow the protocol. For the protocol secure in the
malicious model, we assume that the corrupt players can send arbitrary messages and the adversary
A controls the messages sent by corrupt players.
Remark 6.2. Different DO-shuffle protocols may provide security guarantees under differing ad-
versarial power. For example, of Gordon et al. [GKLX22] assumes a semi-honest adversary cannot
observe honest-to-honest communication, whereas Bünz et al. [BHMS21] assumes a malicious ad-
versary who can observe the entire network communication. Our privacy amplification theorem
does not care about the exact modeling choice made by the underlying DO-shuffle protocol, and the
composed DO-shuffle-model mechanism essentially inherits the same assumptions as the underlying
DO-shuffle.
Next, we define the notion of differential obliviousness for a shuffle protocol. We first need to
define what neighboring means.
Neighboring by swapping.
Given some set D and two vectors y, y′ ∈Dm, we say that y ∼S y′,
iff either y = y′, or y′ can be obtained from y by swapping the values of two coordinates.
Definition 6.3 (Differential obliviousness of a shuffle protocol). A shuffle protocol is said to satisfy
statistical (ϵ, δ)-differential obliviousness in the presence of t ≤n corruptions, iff the following
holds: for any adversary A controlling the server and at most t clients, for any two honest input
configurations yH, y′
H ∈Yn−t such that yH ∼S y′
H, for any subset S ⊆V where V denotes the
view space, it holds that
Pr

ViewA(yH) ∈S

≤eϵ · Pr

ViewA(y′
H) ∈S

+ δ
If we set ϵ = 0 and δ = 0, the above notion becomes equivalent to the security of a perfectly
secure shuffle.
We next define a computational variant of the DO notion, since some known DO shuffler in-
stantiations enjoy computational security [GKLX22,BHMS21,ALU18].
Definition 6.4 (Computational DO for a shuffle protocol). A shuffle protocol Φ is said to satisfy
computational (ϵ, δ)-differential obliviousness in the presence of t ≤n corruptions, iff for any non-
uniform probabilistic polynomial-time (p.p.t.) adversary A controlling the server and at most t
clients, for any two neighboring honest input configurations yH ∼S y′
H, it holds that
Pr
h
ExptA(1λ, yH) = 1
i
≤eϵ · Pr
h
ExptA(1λ, y′
H) = 1
i
+ δ
where ExptA(1λ, y) is the randomized experiment where we execute the protocol using security
parameter λ and interacting with the adversary A, and at the end we output whatever A outputs.
Next, we define the notion of a locally differentially private (LDP) mechanism.
The main
privacy amplification theorem we want to prove in this section asks the following question: if each
client computes its message by applying an ϵ0-LDP mechanism to its private input, and then a DO
shuffler shuffles all clients’ messages before revealing the shuffled result to the server, can we prove
that the server’s view satisfies (ϵ, δ)-DP where ϵ is much smaller than ϵ0?
Definition 6.5 (ϵ0-LDP mechanism). R : X →Y is an ϵ0-LDP mechanism if for any x, x′ ∈X
and any subset S ⊆Y, Pr[R(x) ∈S] ≤eϵ0 Pr[R(x′) ∈S].
22

6.2
Privacy Amplification in the DO-Shuffle Model
We formally restate Theorem 1.4 when the DO-shuffler Φ statisfies statistical DO as the following
theorem. In Appendix A.1, we will extend our composition framework to support the case when
the DO-shuffler satisfies computational differential obliviousness (Definition 6.4).
Theorem 6.6. Let R : X →Y be an ϵ0-LDP mechanism to be run by each client over its private
input. Suppose A is an adversary controlling the server and at most t clients. Let Φ be a statistical
(ϵ1, δ1)-DO shuffling protocol. Define the random experiment ExptA(x1, . . . , xn) as the following
where each xi ∈X denotes the private input of client i ∈[n]:
1. Each honest client i treats the output of R(xi) as the input in the next step;
2. Execute the DO-shuffling protocol Φ with the presence of the adversary A and let A also
observe the outcome of the shuffling.
3. Output whatever A outputs.
Let x = (x1, . . . , xn) ∈X n and x′ = (x′
1, . . . , x′
n) ∈X n be any two neighboring input configura-
tions that differ in at most one client’s input. For any δ > 0 that ϵ0 ≤log

n−t
16 log(2/δ)

, we have
that
Pr

ExptA(x) = 1

≤eϵ+ϵ1 · Pr

ExptA(x′) = 1

+ δ + δ1
for ϵ = O

(1 −e−ϵ0)eϵ0/2
q
log(1/δ)
n−t

.
Since we want to use our composition framework to prove optimal privacy amplification in the
DO-shuffle model, we can define the first and second mechanism M1 and M2 as follows:
• The first mechanism M1 : X n →Yn is where the n clients each apply the ϵ0-LDP mechanism
R : X →Y to their private data, respectively. The mechanism generates no view observable by
the adversary, and moreover, its output is the concatenation of all clients’ outputs.
• The second mechanism M2 : Yn →Yn is the DO-shuffler itself. Here, the view of the adversary
is its view in the DO-shuffle protocol, and the output is the shuffled outcome. In the main body,
we shall first assume that M2 satisfies statistical differential obliviousness (Definition 6.3).
It is easy to see that the adversary has the same view in the composed mechanism M2 ◦M1 and
in the random experiment described in Theorem 6.6. So we only need to prove that M2 ◦M1 is
(ϵ + ϵ1, δ + δ1)-DO. The crux is to show that M1 satisfies (ϵ, δ)-NPDO when at most t clients are
corrupted, as more formally stated in the following lemma:
Lemma 6.7. Suppose ϵ0 ≤log

n−t
16 log(2/δ)

. The above mechanism M1 satisfies (ϵ, δ)-NPDO w.r.t.
the input relation ∼H, (i.e., two vectors are neighboring if they have the same length and differ in
at most one position) and the output relation ∼S (i.e., neighboring by swapping).
We can directly apply our composition theorem (Theorem 3.6)and Lemma 6.7 to get the desired
result.
23

6.3
Proof Sketch of Lemma 6.7
The full proof is deferred to Appendix B.4.
We want to prove that the mechanism M1 as defined above satisfies (ϵ, δ)-NPDO. Instead of
directly proving this statement, we first define a related mechanism M′
1 which is otherwise the same
as M1, except that we augment the adversary’s view with some extra information. Specifically,
recall that the mechanism M1 does not generate any view observable by the adversary. Now, in M′
1,
we assume the adversary can observe some additional auxiliary information which we shall define
shortly. We shall prove that M′
1 satisfies (ϵ, δ)-NPDO by proving that M′
1 satisfies (ϵ, δ)-DO and
(0, 0)-NP. This immediately implies that the original M1 satisfies (ϵ, δ)-NPDO as well.
Equivalent view of M1.
Without loss of generality, we may assume that client 1 is the client
whose input differs in the two neighboring input configurations x = (x1, x2, . . . , xn) and x′ =
(x′
1, x2, . . . , xn). Feldman et al. [FMT22] showed that M1 can be equivalently viewed as the following
randomized experiment. Recall that in M1, every client i runs a ϵ0-DP local randomizer R on its
private data xi. An equivalent way to view R(xi) where i ̸= 1 is the following:
R(xi) =





R(x1)
w.p.
1
2eϵ0 ,
R(x′
1)
w.p.
1
2eϵ0 ,
Q{x1,x′
1}(xi),
w.p. 1 −
1
eϵ0 .
With this equivalent view, we can imagine that every client besides client 1 first flips a coin to
decide whether it wants to be a clone of R(x1) or R(x′
1). If so, it chooses to be a clone of R(x1) or
R(x′
1) with equal probability. If not, it samples from a suitable leftover distribution Q{x1,x′
1}(xi).
The client 1 is always a clone of itself, i.e., of R(x1) in the first world, and of R(x′
1) in the second
world.
Definition of M′
1.
In M1, the adversary’s view is empty. We define an augmented mechanism
that is almost identical to M1 except that we give the adversary some extra information, i.e., we
augment the adversary’s view.
In particular, we will give the adversary the extra information
(U, V, T), where
• V contains the indices of the clones, i.e., the clients (including 1) who clone either R(x1) or
R(x′
1),
• U is the multi-set of the messages (i.e., outcomes of the local randomizer) sent by the clones in
V ,
• T contains the messages sent by all the non-clones (i.e., clients not in V ) along with their indices.
It suﬀices to prove that M′
1 satisfies (ϵ, δ)-NPDO. To do so, we will prove that M′
1 satisfies
(ϵ, δ)-DO and (0, 0)-NP. It turns out that the fact that M′
1 is (ϵ, δ)-DO is already implied by the
key lemma of Feldman et al. [FMT22], as stated in Lemma B.1 of of Appendix B.4. The intuition is
that if we can secretly permute all clients’ messages, then client 1 is well-hidden among the clones
— in particular, observe that even when we directly tell the adversary all the messages sent by
non-clones, client 1 is still well-hidden.
Therefore, the crux of our proof is to show that M′
1 satisfies (0, 0)-NP.
24

Proving that M′
1 satisfies (0, 0)-NP.
This is the most technical part of our proof. To prove that
M′
1 satisfies (0, 0)-NP, we will be using Lemma 4.1. Specifically, we will consider the probability
space conditioned on the adversary’s view (U, V, T), and we want to find an (0, 0)-matching in
a bipartite graph where the vertices on both sides represent a point in the output space of M′
1.
One can think of the vertices on the left as producers, and the amount of commodity produced
by each producer is exactly the conditional probability of this output. The vertices on the right
are consumers, and each consumer’s maximum capacity is also the conditional probability of this
output. Now, each producer can only route to neighboring consumers, and we want to make sure
that all but 1 −δ amount of the commodity is routed to some consumer.
In our proof, it is
equivalent to just ignore the term T, and imagine that the output space is merely all permutations
of the messages in U. This part of the proof is somewhat more involved, and we defer the actual
proof to Appendix B.4.
Acknowledgments
This work is in part supported by a grant from ONR, a gift from Cisco, NSF awards under grant
numbers CIF-1705007, 2128519, 2044679 and 1704788, and a Packard Fellowship. The work is also
supported by DARPA SIEVE research program. T-H. Hubert Chan was partially supported by
the Hong Kong RGC under the grants 17201220, 17202121 and 17203122.
References
[Abe99]
Masayuki Abe.
Mix-networks on permutation networks.
In Kwok-Yan Lam, Eiji
Okamoto, and Chaoping Xing, editors, ASIACRYPT’99, volume 1716 of LNCS, pages
258–273. Springer, Heidelberg, November 1999.
[ABG+11] Ron Aharoni, Eli Berger, Agelos Georgakopoulos, Amitai Perlstein, and Philipp Sprüs-
sel. The max-flow min-cut theorem for countable networks. Journal of Combinatorial
Theory, Series B, 101(1):1–17, 2011.
[AFKL19] Peyman Afshani, Casper Benjamin Freksen, Lior Kamma, and Kasper Green Larsen.
Lower bounds for multiplication via network coding. In Christel Baier, Ioannis Chatzi-
giannakis, Paola Flocchini, and Stefano Leonardi, editors, ICALP 2019, volume 132 of
LIPIcs, pages 10:1–10:12. Schloss Dagstuhl, July 2019.
[AK14]
Arvind Arasu and Raghav Kaushik. Oblivious query processing. In Proc. 17th Inter-
national Conference on Database Theory (ICDT), Athens, Greece, March 24-28, 2014,
pages 26–37. OpenProceedings.org, 2014.
[ALU18]
Megumi Ando, Anna Lysyanskaya, and Eli Upfal. Practical and provably secure onion
routing. In Ioannis Chatzigiannakis, Christos Kaklamanis, Dániel Marx, and Donald
Sannella, editors, ICALP 2018, volume 107 of LIPIcs, pages 144:1–144:14. Schloss
Dagstuhl, July 2018.
[APY20]
Ittai Abraham, Benny Pinkas, and Avishay Yanai. Blinder - scalable, robust anonymous
committed broadcast. In Jay Ligatti, Xinming Ou, Jonathan Katz, and Giovanni Vigna,
editors, ACM CCS 2020, pages 1233–1252. ACM Press, November 2020.
[BBG18]
Borja Balle, Gilles Barthe, and Marco Gaboardi. Privacy amplification by subsampling:
Tight analyses via couplings and divergences. NeurIPS, 2018.
25

[BBGN19] Borja Balle, James Bell, Adrià Gascón, and Kobbi Nissim. The privacy blanket of the
shuffle model. In Alexandra Boldyreva and Daniele Micciancio, editors, CRYPTO 2019,
Part II, volume 11693 of LNCS, pages 638–667. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2019.
[BEM+17] Andrea Bittau, Úlfar Erlingsson, Petros Maniatis, Ilya Mironov, Ananth Raghunathan,
David Lie, Mitch Rudominer, Ushasree Kode, Julien Tinnes, and Bernhard Seefeld.
Prochlo: Strong privacy for analytics in the crowd. In SOSP, page 441–459, New York,
NY, USA, 2017. Association for Computing Machinery.
[BG12]
Stephanie Bayer and Jens Groth. Eﬀicient zero-knowledge argument for correctness of
a shuffle. In David Pointcheval and Thomas Johansson, editors, EUROCRYPT 2012,
volume 7237 of LNCS, pages 263–280. Springer, Heidelberg, April 2012.
[BHMS21] Benedikt Bünz, Yuncong Hu, Shin’ichiro Matsuo, and Elaine Shi.
Non-interactive
differentially anonymous router. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2021/1242, 2021.
https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/1242.
[BKK+21] Dmytro Bogatov, Georgios Kellaris, George Kollios, Kobbi Nissim, and Adam O’Neill.
ϵpsolute: Eﬀiciently querying databases while providing differential privacy. In Gio-
vanni Vigna and Elaine Shi, editors, ACM CCS 2021, pages 2262–2276. ACM Press,
November 2021.
[BNZ19]
Amos Beimel, Kobbi Nissim, and Mohammad Zaheri. Exploring differential oblivious-
ness. In Approx/Random, volume 145 of LIPIcs, pages 65:1–65:20, 2019.
[CBC+18] Natacha Crooks, Matthew Burke, Ethan Cecchetti, Sitar Harel, Rachit Agarwal, and
Lorenzo Alvisi.
Obladi:
Oblivious serializable transactions in the cloud.
In 13th
USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation, OSDI 2018,
Carlsbad, CA, USA, October 8-10, 2018, pages 727–743. USENIX Association, 2018.
[CBM15]
Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Dan Boneh, and David Mazières.
Riposte: An anonymous
messaging system handling millions of users. In 2015 IEEE Symposium on Security
and Privacy, pages 321–338. IEEE Computer Society Press, May 2015.
[CCMS19] T.-H. Hubert Chan, Kai-Min Chung, Bruce M. Maggs, and Elaine Shi. Foundations
of differentially oblivious algorithms. In Timothy M. Chan, editor, 30th SODA, pages
2448–2467. ACM-SIAM, January 2019.
[CF10]
Henry Corrigan-Gibbs and Bryan Ford. Dissent: accountable anonymous group mes-
saging. In Ehab Al-Shaer, Angelos D. Keromytis, and Vitaly Shmatikov, editors, ACM
CCS 2010, pages 340–350. ACM Press, October 2010.
[CGLS18]
T.-H. Hubert Chan, Yue Guo, Wei-Kai Lin, and Elaine Shi. Cache-oblivious and data-
oblivious sorting and applications. In Artur Czumaj, editor, 29th SODA, pages 2201–
2220. ACM-SIAM, January 2018.
[CGPR15] David Cash, Paul Grubbs, Jason Perry, and Thomas Ristenpart. Leakage-abuse attacks
against searchable encryption. In Indrajit Ray, Ninghui Li, and Christopher Kruegel,
editors, ACM CCS 2015, pages 668–679. ACM Press, October 2015.
[Cha81]
David L. Chaum.
Untraceable electronic mail,
return addresses,
and digital
pseudonyms. Communications of the ACM, 24(2):84–90, February 1981.
26

[Cha88]
David Chaum. The dining cryptographers problem: Unconditional sender and recipient
untraceability. Journal of Cryptology, 1(1):65–75, January 1988.
[Che21]
Albert Cheu. Differential privacy in the shuffle model: A survey of separations. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2107.11839, 2021.
[CL05]
Jan Camenisch and Anna Lysyanskaya.
A formal treatment of onion routing.
In
Victor Shoup, editor, CRYPTO 2005, volume 3621 of LNCS, pages 169–187. Springer,
Heidelberg, August 2005.
[Con]
Graeme Connell.
Technology deep dive: Building a faster oram layer for enclaves.
https://signal.org/blog/building-faster-oram/.
[CSS10]
T.-H. Hubert Chan, Elaine Shi, and Dawn Song.
Private and continual release of
statistics. In Samson Abramsky, Cyril Gavoille, Claude Kirchner, Friedhelm Meyer auf
der Heide, and Paul G. Spirakis, editors, ICALP 2010, Part II, volume 6199 of LNCS,
pages 405–417. Springer, Heidelberg, July 2010.
[CSU+19]
Albert Cheu, Adam D. Smith, Jonathan Ullman, David Zeber, and Maxim Zhilyaev.
Distributed differential privacy via shuffling. In Yuval Ishai and Vincent Rijmen, ed-
itors, EUROCRYPT 2019, Part I, volume 11476 of LNCS, pages 375–403. Springer,
Heidelberg, May 2019.
[CZJ+17]
Ethan Cecchetti, Fan Zhang, Yan Ji, Ahmed E. Kosba, Ari Juels, and Elaine Shi.
Solidus: Confidential distributed ledger transactions via PVORM. In Bhavani M. Thu-
raisingham, David Evans, Tal Malkin, and Dongyan Xu, editors, ACM CCS 2017, pages
701–717. ACM Press, October / November 2017.
[CZSC21]
Shumo Chu, Danyang Zhuo, Elaine Shi, and T.-H. Hubert Chan. Differentially obliv-
ious database joins: Overcoming the worst-case curse of fully oblivious algorithms. In
Stefano Tessaro, editor, ITC, 2021.
[DMNS06] Cynthia Dwork, Frank McSherry, Kobbi Nissim, and Adam Smith. Calibrating noise to
sensitivity in private data analysis. In Shai Halevi and Tal Rabin, editors, TCC 2006,
volume 3876 of LNCS, pages 265–284. Springer, Heidelberg, March 2006.
[DNPR10] Cynthia Dwork, Moni Naor, Toniann Pitassi, and Guy N. Rothblum. Differential pri-
vacy under continual observation. In Leonard J. Schulman, editor, 42nd ACM STOC,
pages 715–724. ACM Press, June 2010.
[DR14]
Cynthia Dwork and Aaron Roth. The algorithmic foundations of differential privacy.
Found. Trends Theor. Comput. Sci., 9(3–4):211–407, 2014.
[DS18]
Jean Paul Degabriele and Martijn Stam. Untagging Tor: A formal treatment of onion
encryption. In Jesper Buus Nielsen and Vincent Rijmen, editors, EUROCRYPT 2018,
Part III, volume 10822 of LNCS, pages 259–293. Springer, Heidelberg, April / May
2018.
[EB21]
Saba Eskandarian and Dan Boneh. Clarion: Anonymous communication from mul-
tiparty shuffling protocols.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2021/1514, 2021.
https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/1514.
27

[EFM+19] Úlfar Erlingsson, Vitaly Feldman, Ilya Mironov, Ananth Raghunathan, Kunal Talwar,
and Abhradeep Thakurta. Amplification by shuffling: From local to central differential
privacy via anonymity. In Timothy M. Chan, editor, 30th SODA, pages 2468–2479.
ACM-SIAM, January 2019.
[EZ19]
Saba Eskandarian and Matei Zaharia. Oblidb: Oblivious query processing for secure
databases. Proc. VLDB Endow., 13(2):169–183, 2019.
[FHLS19]
Alireza Farhadi, MohammadTaghi Hajiaghayi, Kasper Green Larsen, and Elaine Shi.
Lower bounds for external memory integer sorting via network coding.
In Moses
Charikar and Edith Cohen, editors, 51st ACM STOC, pages 997–1008. ACM Press,
June 2019.
[FMT22]
Vitaly Feldman, Audra McMillan, and Kunal Talwar. Hiding among the clones: A
simple and nearly optimal analysis of privacy amplification by shuffling. In 62nd FOCS,
pages 954–964. IEEE Computer Society Press, February 2022.
[GDD+21] Antonious
M.
Girgis,
Deepesh
Data,
Suhas
Diggavi,
Peter
Kairouz,
and
Ananda Theertha Suresh. Shuffled model of federated learning: Privacy, accuracy and
communication trade-offs.
IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Information Theory,
2(1):464–478, 2021.
[GGK+21] Badih Ghazi, Noah Golowich, Ravi Kumar, Rasmus Pagh, and Ameya Velingker. On
the power of multiple anonymous messages: Frequency estimation and selection in the
shuffle model of differential privacy. In Anne Canteaut and François-Xavier Standaert,
editors, EUROCRYPT 2021, Part III, volume 12698 of LNCS, pages 463–488. Springer,
Heidelberg, October 2021.
[GIKM00] Yael Gertner, Yuval Ishai, Eyal Kushilevitz, and Tal Malkin. Protecting data privacy
in private information retrieval schemes. JCSS, 2000.
[GKK+12] S. Dov Gordon, Jonathan Katz, Vladimir Kolesnikov, Fernando Krell, Tal Malkin,
Mariana Raykova, and Yevgeniy Vahlis. Secure two-party computation in sublinear
(amortized) time. In Ting Yu, George Danezis, and Virgil D. Gligor, editors, ACM
CCS 2012, pages 513–524. ACM Press, October 2012.
[GKLX22] S. Dov Gordon, Jonathan Katz, Mingyu Liang, and Jiayu Xu. Spreading the privacy
blanket: - differentially oblivious shuffling for differential privacy. In Giuseppe Ate-
niese and Daniele Venturi, editors, ACNS 22, volume 13269 of LNCS, pages 501–520.
Springer, Heidelberg, June 2022.
[GKMP21] Badih Ghazi, Ravi Kumar, Pasin Manurangsi, and Rasmus Pagh. Private counting from
anonymous messages: Near-optimal accuracy with vanishing communication overhead,
2021.
[GLMP19] Paul Grubbs, Marie-Sarah Lacharité, Brice Minaud, and Kenneth G. Paterson. Learn-
ing to reconstruct: Statistical learning theory and encrypted database attacks. In 2019
IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, pages 1067–1083. IEEE Computer Society
Press, May 2019.
[GMN+16] Paul Grubbs, Richard McPherson, Muhammad Naveed, Thomas Ristenpart, and Vitaly
Shmatikov. Breaking web applications built on top of encrypted data. In Edgar R.
28

Weippl, Stefan Katzenbeisser, Christopher Kruegel, Andrew C. Myers, and Shai Halevi,
editors, ACM CCS 2016, pages 1353–1364. ACM Press, October 2016.
[GO96]
Oded Goldreich and Rafail Ostrovsky. Software protection and simulation on oblivious
rams. J. ACM, 43(3):431–473, may 1996.
[Gol87]
Oded Goldreich. Towards a theory of software protection and simulation by oblivious
RAMs. In Alfred Aho, editor, 19th ACM STOC, pages 182–194. ACM Press, May 1987.
[Hal35]
P Hall. On representatives of subsets. Journal of the London Mathematical Society,
1(1):26–30, 1935.
[HJ48]
Marshall Hall Jr. Distinct representatives of subsets. Bulletin of the American Mathe-
matical Society, 54(10):922–926, 1948.
[IKK12]
Mohammad Saiful Islam, Mehmet Kuzu, and Murat Kantarcioglu. Access pattern dis-
closure on searchable encryption: Ramification, attack and mitigation. In NDSS 2012.
The Internet Society, February 2012.
[JLN19]
Riko Jacob, Kasper Green Larsen, and Jesper Buus Nielsen. Lower bounds for oblivious
data structures. In Timothy M. Chan, editor, 30th SODA, pages 2439–2447. ACM-
SIAM, January 2019.
[KKNO16] Georgios Kellaris, George Kollios, Kobbi Nissim, and Adam O’Neill. Generic attacks on
secure outsourced databases. In Edgar R. Weippl, Stefan Katzenbeisser, Christopher
Kruegel, Andrew C. Myers, and Shai Halevi, editors, ACM CCS 2016, pages 1329–1340.
ACM Press, October 2016.
[LHH+15]
Chang Liu, Michael Hicks, Austin Harris, Mohit Tiwari, Martin Maas, and Elaine Shi.
Ghostrider: A hardware-software system for memory trace oblivious computation. In
ASPLOS, 2015.
[Loc22]
Andreas Lochbihler. A mechanized proof of the max-flow min-cut theorem for countable
networks with applications to probability theory.
Journal of Automated Reasoning,
pages 1–26, 2022.
[LSX19]
Wei-Kai Lin, Elaine Shi, and Tiancheng Xie. Can we overcome the n log n barrier
for oblivious sorting?
In Timothy M. Chan, editor, 30th SODA, pages 2419–2438.
ACM-SIAM, January 2019.
[LWN+15] Chang Liu, Xiao Shaun Wang, Kartik Nayak, Yan Huang, and Elaine Shi. ObliVM: A
programming framework for secure computation. In 2015 IEEE Symposium on Security
and Privacy, pages 359–376. IEEE Computer Society Press, May 2015.
[MLS+13]
Martin Maas, Eric Love, Emil Stefanov, Mohit Tiwari, Elaine Shi, Krste Asanovic,
John Kubiatowicz, and Dawn Song. PHANTOM: practical oblivious computation in a
secure processor. In Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi, Virgil D. Gligor, and Moti Yung, editors,
ACM CCS 2013, pages 311–324. ACM Press, November 2013.
[MPC+18] Pratyush Mishra, Rishabh Poddar, Jerry Chen, Alessandro Chiesa, and Raluca Ada
Popa. Oblix: An eﬀicient oblivious search index. In 2018 IEEE Symposium on Security
and Privacy, pages 279–296. IEEE Computer Society Press, May 2018.
29

[MPRV09] Ilya Mironov, Omkant Pandey, Omer Reingold, and Salil P. Vadhan. Computational
differential privacy. In Shai Halevi, editor, CRYPTO 2009, volume 5677 of LNCS, pages
126–142. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2009.
[NKW15]
Muhammad Naveed, Seny Kamara, and Charles V. Wright.
Inference attacks on
property-preserving encrypted databases. In Indrajit Ray, Ninghui Li, and Christo-
pher Kruegel, editors, ACM CCS 2015, pages 644–655. ACM Press, October 2015.
[OS97]
Rafail Ostrovsky and Victor Shoup. Private information storage (extended abstract).
In 29th ACM STOC, pages 294–303. ACM Press, May 1997.
[Rou20]
Tim Roughgarden. Beyond the Worst-Case Analysis of Algorithms. Cambridge Uni-
versity Press, 2020.
[RSG98]
M.G. Reed, P.F. Syverson, and D.M. Goldschlag. Anonymous connections and onion
routing. IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, 16(4):482–494, 1998.
[RYF+13]
Ling Ren, Xiangyao Yu, Christopher W. Fletcher, Marten van Dijk, and Srinivas De-
vadas. Design space exploration and optimization of path oblivious RAM in secure
processors. In ISCA, pages 571–582, 2013.
[SCSL11]
Elaine Shi, T.-H. Hubert Chan, Emil Stefanov, and Mingfei Li. Oblivious RAM with
O((log N)3) worst-case cost.
In Dong Hoon Lee and Xiaoyun Wang, editors, ASI-
ACRYPT 2011, volume 7073 of LNCS, pages 197–214. Springer, Heidelberg, December
2011.
[SS13]
Emil Stefanov and Elaine Shi. ObliviStore: High performance oblivious cloud storage.
In 2013 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, pages 253–267. IEEE Computer
Society Press, May 2013.
[SvS+13]
Emil Stefanov, Marten van Dijk, Elaine Shi, Christopher W. Fletcher, Ling Ren, Xi-
angyao Yu, and Srinivas Devadas. Path ORAM: an extremely simple oblivious RAM
protocol. In Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi, Virgil D. Gligor, and Moti Yung, editors, ACM CCS
2013, pages 299–310. ACM Press, November 2013.
[SW21]
Elaine Shi and Ke Wu. Non-interactive anonymous router. In Anne Canteaut and
François-Xavier Standaert, editors, EUROCRYPT 2021, Part III, volume 12698 of
LNCS, pages 489–520. Springer, Heidelberg, October 2021.
[TGS22]
Afonso Tinoco, Sixiang Gao, and Elaine Shi. EnigMap: Signal should use oblivious
algorithms for private contact discovery. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2022/1083,
2022. https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/1083.
[WBK21]
Yu-Xiang Wang, Borja Balle, and Shiva Kasiviswanathan. Subsampled rényi differential
privacy and analytical moments accountant. Journal of Privacy and Confidentiality,
10(2), Feb. 2021.
[WCS15]
Xiao Wang, T.-H. Hubert Chan, and Elaine Shi.
Circuit ORAM: On tightness of
the Goldreich-Ostrovsky lower bound. In Indrajit Ray, Ninghui Li, and Christopher
Kruegel, editors, ACM CCS 2015, pages 850–861. ACM Press, October 2015.
30

[WST12]
Peter Williams, Radu Sion, and Alin Tomescu.
PrivateFS: a parallel oblivious file
system. In Ting Yu, George Danezis, and Virgil D. Gligor, editors, ACM CCS 2012,
pages 977–988. ACM Press, October 2012.
[ZS22]
Mingxun Zhou and Elaine Shi.
The power of the differentially oblivious shuffle in
distributed privacy mechanisms. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2022/177, 2022.
https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/177.
[ZZZR05]
Li Zhuang, Feng Zhou, Ben Y. Zhao, and Antony Rowstron.
Cashmere: Resilient
anonymous routing. In NSDI, 2005.
A
Computational Differential Obliviousness and Composition
In the main body, we focused on statistical notions of NPDO and DO. In this section, we discuss
how to extend our composition theorem to computational notions of NPDO and DO.
As a first step (Appendix A.1), we consider the case where the second mechanism satisfies a
standard, indistinguishability-based computational DO notion, and the first mechanism still sat-
isfies statistical NPDO. We particularly care about this scenario, since in our DO-shuffle-model
application, M1 is the step where the clients each run their LDP algorithm, and indeed M1 enjoys
statistical security. However, known instantiations [ALU18,GKLX22,BHMS21] of the DO-shuffler,
i.e., M2, satisfy only computational notions of security.
Next, in Appendix A.2 we will consider the case where both the first and the second mechanisms
enjoy computational security. To do so, we will have to first introduce a computational variant of
our NPDO notion.
A.1
When M2 is Computationally Secure
We first define an indistinguishability-based notion of DO, in the same flavor of the indistinguishability-
based, computational DP notion of Mironov et al. [MPRV09].
Definition A.1 (CDO Mechanism). A mechanism Φ is said to satisfy computational (ϵ, δ)-differential
obliviousness iff for any probabilistic polynomial-time (p.p.t.) adversary A for any two neighboring
input configurations x ∼X x, it holds that
Pr
h
ExptA
Φ(1λ, x) = 1
i
≤eϵ · Pr
h
ExptA
Φ(1λ, x′) = 1
i
+ δ + negl(λ)
where ExptA
Φ(1λ, x) is the randomized experiment where we execute the mechanism Φ using security
parameter λ and interacting with the adversary A, and at the end we output whatever A outputs.
We extend our composition theorem to work even when the second mechanism M2 satisfies the
above CDO notion.
Corollary A.2 (Composition when M2 satisfies CDO). Suppose that an algorithm M1 : X →Y
satisfies (ϵ1, δ1)-NPDO w.r.t. ∼X and ∼Y, and moreover, the view space V and output space Y
of M1 is finite or countably infinite. Suppose that M2 : Y →Z satisfies (ϵ2, δ2)-CDO w.r.t. ∼Y.
Then, the composed mechanism M2 ◦M1 : X →Z satisfies (ϵ1 + ϵ2, δ1 + δ2)-CDO.
31

Proof. Fix any neighboring input x, x′. By Lemma 4.1, there exists an (ϵ1, δ1)-matching w : (V1 ×
Y)×(V1×Y) →[0, 1] w.r.t natural neighbor notion ∼in the product space V1×Y: (v1, y) ∼(v′
1, y′)
when v1 = v′
1 and y ∼Y y′. We want to prove that, for any p.p.t. adversary A,
Pr
h
ExptA
M2◦M1(1λ, x) = 1
i
≤eϵ1+ϵ2 · Pr
h
ExptA
M2◦M1(1λ, x′) = 1
i
+ δ1 + δ2 + negl(λ).
For any p.p.t. adversary A, we denote adversary A(v1), whose behavior is the same as the
adversary A when it is given the auxiliary information v1 (which should be polynomial-length).
We have
Pr
h
ExptA
M2◦M1(1λ, x) = 1
i
=
X
(v1,y)∈V1×Y
Pr[ExecM1(x) = (v1, y)] · Pr
h
ExptA(v1)
M2
(1λ, y) = 1
i
(Use condition (b) and (d) of the matching)
≤
X
(v1,y)∈V1×Y,y′∼Yy
w
 (v1, y), (v1, y′)

· Pr
h
ExptA(v1)
M2
(1λ, y) = 1
i
+ δ1
(M2 is (ϵ2, δ2)-CDO)
≤
X
(v1,y)∈V1×Y,y′∼Yy
w
 (v1, y), (v1, y′)

·

eϵ2 Pr
h
ExptA(v1)
M2
(1λ, y′) = 1
i
+ δ2 + negl(λ)

+ δ1
(Use condition (b) of the matching)
≤
X
(v1,y)∈V1×Y,y′∼Yy
w
 (v1, y), (v1, y′)

·

eϵ2 Pr
h
ExptA(v1)
M2
(1λ, y′) = 1
i
+ negl(λ) + δ2 + δ1
(Use condition (c) of the matching)
≤
X
(v1,y′)∈V1×Y
eϵ1 Pr[ExecM1(x′) = (v1, y′)] ·

eϵ2 Pr
h
ExptA(v1)
M2
(1λ, y′) = 1
i
+ negl(λ) + δ2 + δ1
=eϵ1+ϵ2 Pr
h
ExptA
M2◦M1(1λ, x′) = 1
i
+ negl(λ) + δ2 + δ1.
A.2
When Both M1 and M2 Are Computationally Secure
We now consider the case when both M1 and M2 are computational secure. To understand this case,
we have to first define a computational variant of our NPDO notion. The most straightforward
way is to use a simulation-based notion, i.e., an algorithm satisfies (ϵ, δ)-computational-NPDO iff
the view (i.e., access patterns) and the output generated by the algorithm can be simulated by
those generated by another algorithm which satisfies (ϵ, δ)-statistical-NPDO. We first define the
computationally indistinguishability of mechanisms:
Definition A.3 (Computationally indistinguishable mechanisms). We say two mechanisms M and
M′ are computationally indistinguishable iff for any p.p.t. adversary A,
 Pr
h
x ←A; (v, y) ←ExecM(1λ, x) : A(v, y) = 1
i
−Pr
h
x ←A; (v, y) ←ExecM′(1λ, x) : A(v, y) = 1
i  ≤negl(λ).
32

Definition A.4 ((ϵ, δ)-computational-NPDO). We say that an algorithm M(1λ, ·) : X →Y with
view space V satisfies (ϵ, δ)-computational-NPDO, iff there exists an (ϵ, δ)-statistical-NPDO algo-
rithm M′(1λ, ·) : X →Y such that M and M′ are computationally indistinguishable.
We now extend our composition framework to the case when both M1 and M2 satisfy compu-
tational notions of security.
Corollary A.5 (Composition when both M1 and M2 have computational security). Suppose that
an algorithm M1 : X →Y satisfies (ϵ1, δ1)-computational-NPDO w.r.t. ∼X and ∼Y, and moreover,
the view space V and output space Y of M1 is finite or countably infinite.
The following two
statements hold:
1. If M2 : Y →Z satisfies (ϵ2, δ2)-CDO w.r.t. ∼Y, then, the composed mechanism M2 ◦M1 :
X →Z satisfies (ϵ1 + ϵ2, δ1 + δ2)-CDO.
2. If M2 satisfies (ϵ2, δ2)-computational-NPDO w.r.t. ∼Y and ∼Z, then M2 ◦M1 satisfies (ϵ1 +
ϵ2, δ1 + δ2)-computation-NPDO.
Before we prove this corollary, we first provide the following lemma:
Lemma A.6. Supopse mechanism M is computationally indistinguishable from mechanism M′ and
M′ is (ϵ, δ)-CDO, then M is also (ϵ, δ)-CDO.
Proof. Since M is computationally indistinguishable from mechanism M′, we have that for any
p.p.t. A and any input x,
Pr
h
ExptA
M(1λ, x) = 1
i
≤Pr
h
ExptA
M′(1λ, x) = 1
i
+ negl(λ).
Thus, for any neighboring input x ∼X x′
Pr
h
ExptA
M(1λ, x) = 1
i
≤Pr
h
ExptA
M′(1λ, x) = 1
i
+ negl(λ)
≤eϵ 
Pr
h
ExptA
M′(1λ, x′) = 1
i
+ δ + negl(λ)
≤eϵ 
Pr
h
ExptA
M(1λ, x′) = 1
i
+ negl(λ)

+ δ + negl(λ)
≤eϵ Pr
h
ExptA
M(1λ, x′) = 1
i
+ δ + negl(λ).
Proof of Corollary A.5. When M2 is CDO: By the definition of computational-NPDO, we know
that there exists an (ϵ1, δ1)-statistical NPDO mechanism M′
1 that is computationally indistinguish-
able from M1. We now prove that M2 ◦M1 is computationally indistinguishable from M2 ◦M′1 with
a standard argument for “post-processing” (where M2 is the post-process step). Suppose there is
a p.p.t. adversary A that can distinguish M2 ◦M1 and M2 ◦M′1 with a non-negligible advantage.
Then, we simply build an p.p.t. adversary B that takes the challenge input x from A, runs the
execution of the first mechanism, ExecM1(x), takes the output of the first mechanism as y and
receives an execution from the environment (ExecM2(1λ, y) or ExecM′
2(1λ, y), depending on the ex-
periment). It then sends the view in ExecM1(x) and the whole execution of the second mechanism
to A and outputs what A outputs. B correctly simulates the input for A, so B can distinguish M1
33

and M′
1 with non-negligible advantage, which is a contradiction. Thus, we know that M2 ◦M1 is
computationally indistinguishable from M2 ◦M′1, which is an (ϵ1 + ϵ2, δ1 + δ2)-CDO mechanism
by Corollary A.2. Finally, by Lemma A.6, M2 ◦M1 is (ϵ1 + ϵ2, δ1 + δ2)-CDO.
When M2 is computational-NPDO: By the definition of computational-NPDO, we know that
there exists an (ϵ1, δ1)-statistical NPDO mechanism M′
1 that is computationally indistinguishable
from M1. Also, there exists an (ϵ2, δ2)-statistical NPDO mechanism M′
2 that is computationally
indistinguishable from M2. We only need to show that M2◦M1 is computationally indistinguishable
from M′
2 ◦M′
1 and then by our main composition theorem for statistical NPDO mechanism 3.6, we
can prove the statement.
Let a hybrid mechanism be M′
2 ◦M1. By a similar argument as the first case in this proof,
we have that M′
2 ◦M1 is computationally indistinguishable from M′
2 ◦M′
1. We only need to prove
that M′
2 ◦M1 is computationally indistinguishable from M2 ◦M1. Suppose there is a p.p.t. A that
distinguishes M′
2 ◦M1 and M2 ◦M1. We can build a p.p.t. B that distinguishes M′
2 and M2 with
non-negligible advantage: B takes the challenge input x from A, samples an execution from M1 and
then submits the output of M1 as the challenge input. When B gets the view and the output from
M2 or M′
2, it sends the view, the output and also the view of ExecM1(x) to A. Then B outputs what
A outputs. Since B correctly simulates the input distribution for A, B can distinguish M′
2 and M2
with a non-negligible advantage, which is a contradiction.
B
Deferred Proofs
B.1
Proof for basic NPDO properties
Proof of Theorem 3.5:(ϵ, δ)-NPDO implies (ϵ, δ)-DO. Let V be the sample space of ViewM. Con-
sider all those Sv ⊆V. We know N(Sv × Y) = Sv × Y. Therefore,
Pr[ViewM(x) ∈Sv] = Pr[ExecM(x) ∈Sv × Y]
≤eϵ Pr[ExecM(x′) ∈N(Sv × Y)] + δ = eϵ Pr[ViewM(x′) ∈Sv] + δ.
Proof of Lemma 3.7: Strongly NP and DO imply NPDO. Fix a pair of neighboring input x, x′. By
the strongly neighbor-preserving definition, for any y, y′ ∈Y such that Pr[M(x) = y] > 0 and
Pr[M(x′) = y′] > 0, it must be that y ∼Y y′. For any subset S ⊆V × Y, define the partial set
V (S) := {v|∃(v, y) ∈S}. Then, we have
Pr[ExecM(x) ∈S] ≤Pr[ViewM(x) ∈V (S)]
≤eϵ Pr[ViewM(x′) ∈V (S)] + δ ≤eϵ Pr[ExecM(x′) ∈N(S)] + δ.
Proof of Lemma 3.9:(ϵ, δ)-NP and DO imply NPDO. We slightly abuse the notation of N(·) to de-
note the “neighbor set” for Y and also the V × Y, as defined in Definition 3.8 and Definition 3.4.
Fix a pair of neigboring input x, x′. For any S ⊆V ×Y, denote the partial set Sv = {y |∃(v, y) ∈S}.
34

Let µ(v) = min(Pr[ViewM(x) = v], eϵ1 Pr[ViewM(x′) = v]). It’s trivial that P
v∈V µ(v) ≤1. Also,
since M is (ϵ1, δ1)-DO, we have P
v∈V µ(v) ≥1 −δ1. Then,
Pr[ExecM(x) ∈S]
=
X
v∗∈V
Pr[ViewM(x) = v∗] Pr[(v, y) ←ExecM(x) : y ∈Sv∗|v = v∗]
≤δ1 +
X
v∗∈V
µ(v∗) Pr[(v, y) ←ExecM(x) : y ∈Sv∗|v = v∗]
≤δ1 +
X
v∗∈V
µ(v∗)(eϵ Pr[(v′, y′) ←ExecM(x′) : y′ ∈N(Sv∗)
v′ = v∗
+ δ2)
≤δ1 + δ2 +
X
v∗∈V
µ(v∗)(eϵ Pr[(v′, y′) ←ExecM(x′) : y′ ∈N(Sv∗)
v′ = v∗
)
≤δ1 + δ2 +
X
v∗∈V
eϵ1 Pr[ViewM(x′) = v∗]eϵ2 Pr[(v′, y′) ←ExecM(x′) : y′ ∈N(Sv∗)
v′ = v∗
=δ1 + δ2 + eϵ1+ϵ2 Pr[ExecM(x′) ∈N(S)].
B.2
Proofs of Lemma 4.1
Proof. For any matching w, we use the notation of the partial sum of the matching: for any a ∈Ω,
w(a, ·) := P
b∼a w(a, b). Similarly, for any b ∈Ω, we have w(·, b) := P
a∼b w(a, b). We also define
the size of a matching w as |w| := P
a,b,a∼b w(a, b).
We first prove that if there is an (ϵ, δ)-matching, the first statement holds. We prove it by
contradiction. Suppose there is a set S violates the first condition, i.e., Pr[A ∈S] > eϵ Pr[B ∈
N(S)] + δ, while there is an (ϵ, δ)-matching w. We have that Pr[A ∈S] −P
a∈S,b∼x w(a, b) ≥
Pr[A ∈S] −eϵ Pr[B ∈N(S)] > δ. Then, 1 −P
a,b,a∼b w(a, b) =

Pr[A ∈S] −P
a∈S,b∼a w(a, b)

+

Pr[A ∈Ω/S] −P
a∈Ω/S,b∼a w(a, b)

> δ + 0.
So P
a,b w(a, b) < 1 −δ, which contradicts the
condition (d) of the matching.
Now, we prove that if the first statement holds, we can find an (ϵ, δ)-matching w. This direction
is more challenging. We first prove it assuming Ωis finite. Let w∗be the “max legal” matching.
When we say w∗is legal, we mean that it satisfies the condition (a)-(c) for (ϵ, δ)-matching. Also, the
maximality of w∗means the the size of w∗is more than or equal to any other leagl matching w. We
prove that, if |w∗| < 1−δ, then we can find a set S that violates the condition in the first statement.
Let S0 be the set of all those a ∈Ωthat are not “saturated”, i.e., P
b∼a w∗(a, b) < Pr[A = a]. Now,
for each iteration, we keep expanding the set Si to Si+1. Define Ti := {a ∈A|∃b ∈N(Si), w∗(a, b) >
0}. Let Si+1 = Si ∪Ti. We keep expanding the set. Since Ωis finite, there exists a maximal Si
that cannot be expanded, i.e., Si ∪Ti = Si. Notice that for i, all b ∈N(Si+1) are saturated.
Otherwise, we can find a pair of unsaturated vertices a0, bi, such that there exists an alternating
path a0, b0, a1, b1, · · · , ai, bi where for all j ∈[i −1], aj ∼bj and w∗(aj+1, bj) > 0.
Now, let
∆= min{Pr[A = a] −w∗(a, ·), eϵ Pr[B = b] −w∗(·, b), minj∈[i]{w∗(aj+1, bj)}}. We know ∆> 0. For
each j ∈[i −1], we simply raise w∗(aj, bj) by ∆and decrease w∗(aj+1, bj) by ∆. This procedure
raises the size of w∗by ∆while preserving all legal conditions, which breaks the maximality of w∗.
Now, we argue that this maximal set Si violates the first statement.
We first notice that
all a ∈Ω/Si are saturated.
So Pr[A ∈Ω/Si] −P
a∈Ω/Si w∗(a, ·) = 0.
Then, Pr[A ∈Si] −
35

P
a∈Si w∗(a, ·) = (Pr[A ∈Si] −P
a∈Si w(a, ·)) + (Pr[A ∈Ω/Si] −P
a∈Ω/Si w(a, ·)) = 1 −|w∗| > δ.
Now, we know that all b ∈N(Si) are saturated. Also, N(Si) are only saturated by the vertices in
Si, otherwise we can expand Si more. So we have that Pr[A ∈Si] −eϵ Pr[B ∈N(Si)] = Pr[A ∈
Si] −P
a∈Si,b∈N(Si),a∼b w(a, b) > δ. Therefore, Si violates the condition in the first statement.
Now we discuss the case when Ωis countable infinite. We will try to use the same argument
as the finite case, but we need to handle a few additional details. First, is the maximal matching
w∗well-defined and attainable in the infinite case? This turns out to be non-trivial. Luckily, our
matching problem can be seen as a “locally finite” network flow problem in a countable inifinite
graph. Due to the Theorem 5.1 in Aharoni et al. [ABG+11]4, the maximum flow is attainable
for any countable infinite and locally finite graph, which implies the maximum matching in our
setting is well-defined and attainable in our case. Notice that the axiom of choice is assumed in
the proof from Aharoni et al. Also, the expanding procedure could take infintie number of steps
to stop. Now, we can simply define the set Sfinal that violates the condition as the union of all Si
for i ∈0, 1, 2 . . .. This maximal set Sfinal is well-defined by Zorn’s Lemma. Next, we know that
all y ∈N(Sfinal) are saturated. Although the number of vertices in N(Sfinal) could be infinite,
there exists a finite-length alternative path from an unsaturated x to each y in N(Sfinal), since our
expanding prodcedure goes in round i ∈0, 1, 2 · · ·. So if there is any unsaturated y ∈N(Sfinal),
the maximality of w∗are broken. Every other parts of the proof still hold in the countable infinite
case.
B.3
Proofs for the Stable Compaction Algorithm
Proof of Theorem 5.1: RandBin’s correctness. We prove the correctness statement by induction.
We assume that for the first i −1 iteration, Bin1 . . . Bini−1 have the correct real elements and also,
no real elements have been truncated.
Now, in the i-th iteration, we will read the input array up to index cnt[i] + s. Since s is the
upper bound on the additive error of the prefix-sum mechanism. we have |cnt[i] −P
j≤i ρj| ≤s
and thus, cnt[i] + s ≥P
j≤i ρj.
Then, we know the real elements between I
hP
j<i ρj + 1
i
to
I
hP
j≤i ρj
i
will be visited. By the assumption, they are not moved to the bins before, so they
must still be in the buffer. Then, the algorithm obliviously sort the buffer and correctly move those
real elements to Bini. Now, the real elements from I[P
j≤i ρj + 1] to I[cnt[i] + s] are in Buf. Again,
since |cnt[i] −P
j≤i ρj| ≤s, we have cnt[i] + s −P
j≤i ρj ≤2s. So there will be no more than 2s
real elements and after another round of oblivious sorting, no real elements will be truncated.
Finally, we have ρi ≥Z/2, so P
i≤B ρi ≥BZ/2 ≥L ≥|I|. Thus, we will visit the whole input
and all the real elements will be moved to the correct bins.
The constant in s. We need to ensure that s = 15
ϵ log2 L log 1
δ is indeed an upper bound on the
support of G(ϵ2, δ2) and also the additive error of PreﬁxSumϵ3,δ3 on at most L integers. The support
of G(ϵ2, δ2) is [0, 2
ϵ2 ln 2
δ2 + O(1)]. According to Lemma 2.8 and Theorem 3.6 in [CSS10] and using a
union bound, for the release of all L prefix sums, the error will be bounded by 2
√
2
ϵ3 (log L)1.5 ln 2L
δ3
with probability 1 −δ. We can simply move the utility failure probability δ to the privacy failiure
probability by releasing all correct prefix sums when any error exceeds the bound. So the prefix
sum mechanism will be (ϵ2, δ2) private and the error will be bounded by 2
√
2
ϵ3 (log L)1.5 ln 2L
δ3 with
probability 1. Finally, plugging in ϵ2 = ϵ3 = ϵ
3 and δ2 = δ3 = δ
3, it can be verified that the constant
4A followup paper by Lochbihler [Loc22] pointed out and fixed some technical issues of the proof in Aharoni et
al. [ABG+11].
36

15 is big enough.
Proof of Theorem 5.2: RandBin’s runtime. Before each iteration, Buf has size at most 2s. For each
iteration i, we will move at most cnt[i] −cnt[i −1] + s elements to the buffer.
Since |cnt[i] −
P
j≤i ρj| ≤s and |cnt[i −1] −P
j≤i−1 ρj| ≤s, we have cnt[i] −cnt[i −1] ≤ρi + 2s.
Then,
cnt[i] −cnt[i −1] + s ≤ρi + 2s ≤Z + 2s ≤4s. Thus, we know the buffer size cannot be more
than 6s, which implies that each oblivious sorting on Buf takes O(s log s) time. Also, we know
Z = 2s, so we have B = ⌈L
s ⌉+1. The total time complexity will be O(Bs log s) = O(L log s). Since
|I| = Ω
  1
ϵ log 1
δ

, we have that L ≤|I| + O
  1
ϵ log 1
δ

= O(I). Finally, since s = Θ( 1
ϵ log2 L · log 1
δ),
the time complexity is O
 |I|
 log log |I| + log 1
ϵ + log log 1
δ

.
Proof of Theorem 5.3: RandBin is (ϵ, δ)-NPDO. Recall that we need to prove the following state-
ment: for any subset S of (view, output) pairs, for any neighboring input pair I, I′, it holds that
Pr[ExecRandBin(I) ∈S] ≤eϵ Pr[ExecRandBin(I′) ∈N(S)] + δ.
(5)
where ExecRandBin returns the view and the output bin representation, and the neighboring set N
is defined w.r.t. the relation ∼B (i.e., neighboring of bin representation).
First, observe that the adversary’s view is fully determined knowing the noisy input length L
and the noisy bin loads cnt. Therefore, henceforth, we may use (L, cnt) to denote the view. Second,
observe that the output of the algorithm is fully determined by the input I, the noisy input length
L (which determines the parameters Z and B), and the actual random bin load vector ρ. Now, we
define the notation Exec(I) to output L, cnt, as well as ρ — notice that here, we have switched the
output to just the bin load vector ρ rather than the actual bin representation output. Henceforth,
let Y be the support of the variable ρ, and we abuse notation slightly and use V to denote the
support of the pair (L, cnt). For any given subset S ⊆V ×Y, we define the neighboring set notation
N (parametrized by I and I′) as follows:
N(S) = {(L, cnt, ρ′) | ∃ρ′ s.t. (L, cnt, ρ) ∈S and out(I, L, ρ) ∼B out(I′, L, ρ′)}
where out(I, L, ρ) outputs the unique bin representation that is fully determined by the input I,
the noisy input length L, and the bin load vector ρ.
Now, proving Equation (5) is equivalent to proving that for any S ⊆V × Y, any neighboring
inputs I, I′, it holds that
Pr[Exec(I) ∈S] ≤eϵ Pr[Exec(I′) ∈N(S)] + δ.
We consider these following cases.
Case 1. A substitution transforms I to I′. This is an easy case. Fix any (L, cnt, ρ) ∈V × Y such
that Pr[Exec(I) = (L, cnt, ρ)] > 0. Let’s assume that the substituted elements x are placed in Bini
in the bin representation out(I, L, ρ). Since I and I′ only differ by a substitution, x will be in Bin′
i in
the bin representation out(I′, L, ρ) with the same index i. All other bins are exactly the same. Also,
the i-th bin will have real bin loads differ at most one. Therefore, by the definition of neighboring
relation for bin representation, we know out(I, L, ρ) ∼B out(I′, L, ρ). Thus, in this case, given any
S ⊆V ×Y, S ⊆N(S). Moreover, the equation Pr[Exec(I) = (L, cnt, ρ)] = Pr[Exec(I′) = (L, cnt, ρ)]
trivially holds in this case because |I| = |I′|.
Case 2. An insertion or deletion transforms I to I′.
Fix any (L, cnt, ρ) ∈V × Y such that Pr[Exec(I) = (L, cnt, ρ)] > 0.
37

(i) Suppose an element x is deleted from I to form I′. Suppose i is the index of the bin in out(I, L, ρ)
that contains x; observe the choice of B ensures that i < B. We write ρ = (ρ1, . . . , ρB). We consider
a ρ′ = (ρ′
1, . . . , ρ′
B), such ρ′
i+1 = ρi+1−1 and ρ′
j = ρj for j ̸= i+1. We first prove that out(I, L, ρ) ∼B
out(I′, L, ρ′).
We only need to check the bin load condition and the other two conditions are
naturally satisfied. We write out(I, L, ρ) = (Bini : i ∈[B]) and out(I′, L, ρ′) = (Bin′
i : i ∈[B]). It is
easy to see that Bin1 = Bin′
1, . . . , Bini−1 = Bin′
i−1. Also, Bini+2 = Bin′
i+2, . . . , BinB = Bin′
B, because
ρ′
i+1 = ρi+1 −1 offsets the influence of the deletion of x for all following bins. Thus, only bin i
and i + 1 will be different in out(I, L, ρ) and out(I, L, ρ′). For example, suppose I = a⊥bcd⊥. . . ,
I′ = abcd⊥. . . where a, b, c, d are the real elements and ⊥denotes the filler elements. Assuming
ρ = (3, 3, . . . ) and ρ′ = (3, 2, . . . ), the corresponding bin representation will be a⊥b cd⊥and
abc d⊥⊥, where the first two bins will have different bin loads and the differences are at most
one for each bin.
More formally, since ρi = ρ′
i and I′ is missing the element x, Bini has the
particular element x, while Bin′
i has the element I[P
j≤i yj + 1] instead (which will be the same as
I′[P
j≤i yj]). Thus, the real element numbers in Bini and Bin′
i may differ by at most one. Also,
Bin′
i+1 simply misses the first element in Bini+1 and every other elements are the same. So the
real element numbers in Bini+1 and Bin′
i+1 may differ by at most one. Henceforce, we prove that
out(I, L, ρ) ∼B out(I′, L, ρ′). For convenience, we define a mapping φL : Y →Y, such that it maps
every ρ to ρ′ as the construction above. Notice that φL relies on L because the bin size Z and the
bin number B relies on a fixed L, and then we restrict dom(φL) to those ρ that have exactly B
bins of size Z.
We then prove φL(ρ) is injective by contradiction. Suppose there are ρ0, ρ1 ∈dom(φL) such
that ρ0 ̸= ρ1 but φL(ρ0) = φL(ρ1). Assume x is in Bini0 in out(I, L, ρ0) and in Bini1 in out(I, L, ρ1),
and i0 < i1 without loss of generality. We know that the prefix ρ0
1...i0 are the same as the pre-
fix φL(ρ0)1,...,i0 by the construction of φL.
Also, the prefix ρ1
1,...,i1 are the same as the prefix
φL(ρ1)1,...,i1. Thus, the prefix ρ0
1,...,i0 are the same as the prefix ρ1
1,...,i0 and by the definition of out,
x should be in Bini0 of out(I, L, ρ1). This is a contradiction.
(ii) Suppose an element x is inserted into I to from I′. Consider the bin representation out(I, L, ρ).
Suppose x is in Bini. We can define an injective mapping φ similarly as the mapping in part (i):
φL(ρ) = ρ′ such that ρ′
i+1 = ρi+1 + 1 and ρ′
j = ρj for j ̸= i + 1. We can prove φL is injective and
the correponding bin representation are neighbors by similar arguments in part (i).
It remains to show the (ϵ, δ)-differentially private inequality. We can use the same proof for
insertion and deletion, because ∥ρ −φL(ρ)∥1 = 1 in both cases.
We abused the notation before and now we make a clear distinction: the notations L, cnt, ρ
denote the random variables, while the notations ℓ, cnt, ρ denote the particular point in the sample
space.
For any measurable S ⊆V × Y and ℓ∈Z+, ρ ∈Y, denote Sℓ,ρ := {cnt : (ℓ, cnt, ρ) ∈S}. We
also denote φ(S) = {(ℓ, cnt, φℓ(ρ)) |(ℓ, cnt, ρ) ∈S }.
Observe that following properties:
1. First, since dE(I, I′) ≤1, for all ℓ∈Z+, Pr[L = ℓ] ≤eϵ1 Pr[L′ = ℓ] + δ1.
2. Because of the truncated geometric distribution Geom(ϵ2, δ2) and the choice of Z, we have
Pr[ρ /∈dom(φℓ)|L = ℓ] ≤δ2.
3. For ρ ∈dom(φℓ), since ρ and ρ′ in both executions have the same distribution, we have
Pr[ρ = ρ|L = ℓ] ≤eϵ2 · Pr[ρ′ = φℓ(ρ)|L′ = ℓ], noting that ∥ρ −φℓ(ρ)∥1 = 1.
4. For ρ ∈dom(φℓ), again we have ∥ρ −φℓ(ρ)∥= 1. Then, the (ϵ3, δ3)-differentially private
prefix sum mechanism implies that Pr[cnt ∈Sℓ,y|ρ = ρ, L = ℓ] ≤eϵ3 · Pr[cnt′ ∈Sℓ,ρ|ρ′ =
38

φℓ(ρ), L′ = ℓ] + δ3.
Then, we have the following inequalities:
Pr[Exec(I) = (L, cnt, ρ) ∈S|L = ℓ]
≤
X
ρ∈dom(φℓ)
Pr[ρ = ρ|L = ℓ] · Pr[cnt ∈Sℓ,ρ|ρ = ρ, L = ℓ] + δ2
≤
X
ρ∈dom(φℓ)
Pr[ρ = ρ|L = ℓ] · (eϵ3 · Pr[cnt′ ∈Sℓ,ρ|ρ′ = φℓ(ρ), L′ = ℓ] + δ3) + δ2
≤
X
ρ∈dom(φℓ)
eϵ3+ϵ2 Pr[ρ′ = φℓ(ρ)|L′ = ℓ] · Pr[cnt′ ∈Sℓ,ρ|ρ′ = φℓ(ρ), L′ = ℓ] + δ3 + δ2
=
X
ρ′∈range(φℓ)
eϵ3+ϵ2 Pr[ρ′ = ρ′|L′ = ℓ] · Pr[cnt′ ∈Sℓ,φ−1
ℓ
(ρ′)|ρ′ = ρ′, L′ = ℓ] + δ3 + δ2
=
eϵ3+ϵ2 · Pr[Exec(I′) = (L′, cnt′, ρ′) ∈φ(S)|L′ = ℓ] + δ3 + δ2,
where the last equality holds because for all ρ′ ∈range(φℓ), cnt′ ∈Sφ−1
ℓ
(ρ′) iff (ℓ, cnt′, ρ′) ∈
φ(S).
Since Pr[L = ℓ] ≤eϵ1 · Pr[L′ = ℓ] + δ1 for all ℓ, using a standard DP-composition argument, we
have
Pr[Exec(I) = (L, cnt, ρ) ∈S] ≤eϵ1+ϵ2+ϵ3 · Pr[Exec(I′) = (L′, cnt′, ρ′) ∈φ(S)] + δ3 + δ2 + δ1.
Finally, since φℓis injective and we know for all (ℓ, cnt, ρ) ∈S, (ℓ, cnt, φℓ(ρ)) ∈N(S), we have that
Pr[Exec(I′) = (L′, cnt′, ρ′) ∈φ(S)] ≤Pr[Exec(I′) = (L′, cnt′, ρ′) ∈N(S)],
and we finish the proof.
Proof of Theorem 5.4: CompactBin’s corretness. We need to show that no filler element will be
output before the last real element and no real element will be truncated. We know fact that
for every i ∈[B], | P
j≤i Ri −cnt[i]| ≤s since s is the upper bound on error of the prefix sum
mechanism.
Let i∗be the smallest i such that cnt[i] −s ≥0. If all cnt[i] < s, then let i∗= B + 1. First,
we observe that during the first i∗−1 iteration, no element will be output. Also, at the end of the
iteration i∗−1, Buf contains P
j≤i∗−1 Rj real elements. We know that P
j≤i∗−1 Rj ≤cnt[i∗−1]+s ≤
2s, so no real elements get truncated.
Starting from the i∗iteration, for each iteration i, after reading the i-th bin into Buf, the
algorithm has read P
j≤i Ri real elements. Then, if we know at the end of the iteration, the output
array does not have more than P
j≤i Ri elements, then all the elements that in the output tape
are still real. We simply have that for i ≥i∗, the output array will be appended to the length of
cnt[i] −s at the end of the iteration and cnt[i] −s ≤P
j≤i Ri. Also, we know that after the output
step, Buf contains exactly P
j≤i Ri −(cnt[i] −s) ≤2s real elements. So no real elements will be
truncated.
At the end of the algorithm, we append the whole Buf to the output. Since this Buf is sorted,
the first filler element will be after the last real element.
39

Proof of Theorem 5.5: CompactBin is (ϵ, δ)-NPDO. First, due to Theorem 5.4 and the definition
of ∼B, we know that CompactBin is strongly-NP. Also, notice that the view of the adversary fully
depends on the (ϵ1, δ1)-DP prefix sum mechanism result cnt. By the definition of ∼B, we know
there are at most two bins that have difference at most one given the neighboring input. Notice
that we set ϵ1 = ϵ/2, δ1 = δ/(2(1 + eϵ1)). With group privacy theorem, it is straightforward that
releasing cnt to the adversary is (ϵ, δ)-DP and thus CompactBin is (ϵ, δ)-DO. Therefore, we have
CompactBin is (ϵ, δ)-NPDO.
Proof of Theorem 5.6: CompactBin’s runtime. We have B iterations.
Before each iteration, the
Buf has size at most 2s. When we read the i-th bin into Buf, its size will be at most 2s + Z. So
performing oblivious sorting on Buf takes O((Z +s) log(Z +s)) time. In total, the time complexity
will be O(B(Z + s) log(Z + s)).
B.4
Proofs for the privacy amplification theorem by DO-shuffle
In Section 6, we mentioned that the it is suﬀice to prove the mechanism M′
1 that provides the
adversary with auxiliary information is (ϵ, δ)-NPDO w.r.t the input neighboring relation of ∼H
(neighboring by Hamming distance at most 1) and output neighboring relation of ∼S (neighboring
by swapping two messages).
Equivalent view of M1.
Without loss of generality, fix a pair of neighboring input configurations
x = (x1, x2 . . . , xn) and x′ = (x′
1, x2 . . . , xn) that only differ in the first client’s input. Feldman et
al. [FMT22] defined the following equivalent view of M1. For client 1, its message are generated as
following: for x, the message y1 will be sampled from R(x1); for x′, y1 is sampled from R(x′
1). For
each client i from 2 to n, it behaves the same given the input being x or x′. That is, yi is sampled
from R(xi). Since R is an ϵ0-DP mechanism, for any x, x′ ∈X where X is the input domain and
any y ∈Y where Y is the randomizer’s output domain, we have
Pr[R(x)=y]
Pr[R(x′)=y] ≥e−ϵ0. Thus, we can
“decompose” the distribution of R(x′) as R(x′) = e−ϵ0R(x) + (1 −e−ϵ0)Qx(x′). It means that the
distribution of R(x′) can be seen as a mixture of R(x) and some appropriate leftover distribution
Qx(x′). Similarly, for all xi where i = 2, . . . , n, we can decompose the output distribution of R(xi)
as
R(xi) =





R(x1)
w.p.
1
2eϵ0 ,
R(x′
1)
w.p.
1
2eϵ0 ,
Q{x1,x′
1}(xi),
w.p. 1 −
1
eϵ0 .
Here, Q{x1,x′
1}(xi) is also some appropriate left-over distribution after the decomposition.
The
properties of Q{x1,x′
1}(xi) are irrelevant in this proof, so we only need to know Q{x1,x′
1}(xi) is a
legal and well-defined distribution. In other words, with probability 1/eϵ0, each client from 2 to n
will clone either R(x1) or R(x′
1) with equal probability, and with the remaining probability, it will
sample from the leftover distribution Q{x1,x′
1}(xi).
Definition of M′
1.
Recall that in M1, the adversary’s view is empty. We will define an augmented
algorithm M′
1 that is almost identical as M1 except that we add some extra information to the
adversary’s view. We define the view of the mechanism M′
1 to contain the random varaibles (U, V, T).
Here, V is the set of the indices of those clients that sample their messages from R(x1) or R(x′
1).
V always contains index 1 and it may contain some indices from 2 to n, depending on those clients’
40

decision on sampling from the corresponding decomposed distribution. U is the multi-set of the
messages sent by those clients in V . T contains the messages sent by all the non-clones (i.e., clients
not in V ) along with their indices.
Later in our proof, we will consider a probability space conditioned on the adversary’s view
(U, V, T). Thus, it may be helpful to think of M′
1 as first sampling the variables (U, V, T), and then
sampling the output (y1, . . . , yn) accordingly. Specifically, consider the following equivalent way of
sampling the experiment M′
1.
• First, decide out of the n−1 clients, how many clients sample from R(x1) or R(x′
1). We sample
this quantity, denoted as c, from Bin(n −1, e−ϵ0).
• Then, conditioned on c clients sampling from R(x1) or R(x′
1), we sample the number of the
clients cloning R(x1), denoted as H, from Bin(c, 1/2). Let H′ = c −H be the number of clients
cloning R(x′
1).
• We now denote (m, m′) be the total numbers of clients (including client 1) that are sampling
from R(x1) and R(x′
1), repectively. When the input is x, (m, m′) = (H + 1, H′). When the
input is x′, (m, m′) = (H, H′ + 1).
• Generate U, V as following: Sample m messages independently from R(x1) and sample m′
messages independently from R(x′
1). Let U be the multi-set of these m+m′ messages. Let V be
a subset of the indicies of m + m′ clients picked uniformly at random from [n] that must include
client 1.
• Generate T as following: for each i /∈V , sample a message yi from Q{x1,x′
1}(xi) and add the
index-message pair (i, yi) to T.
• Finally, generate the output (each client’s message) in the following way.
1. If the input is x, sample a subset of m clients from V uniformly at random conditioned on
containing client 1. If the input is x′, the condition will be changed to exclude client 1.
2. The clients in this set will be assigned messages from the m messages that are sampled earlier
from R(x1) (for instance, in a uniformly random order), and the remaining clients in V will
be assigned messages from the remaining m′ messages sampled from R(x′
1).
3. For a client i /∈V , its message is already determined by T.
A key lemma from Feldman et al. [FMT22] shows that releasing (m, m′), i.e.,the number of
clients (including client 1) sampling from R(x1) and R(x′
1), is (ϵ, δ) differentially private, where ϵ
is much smaller than ϵ0. Formally, they prove the following result.
Lemma B.1 ( [FMT22]). Let c $←Bin(n −1, e−ϵ0), H $←Bin(c, 1/2) and H′ = c −H. For any δ > 0
and ϵ0 ≤log

n
16 log(2/δ)

, the joint distributions on (H + 1, H′) and (H, H′ + 1) are (ϵ, δ)-close
where ϵ = O

(1−e−ϵ0)eϵ0/2√
log(1/δ)
√n

.
Here, two distributions D and D′ are (ϵ, δ)-close means that for any subset S
in the sample
space, Pr[x $←D : x ∈S] ≤eϵ Pr[x′ $←D′ : x′ ∈S] + δ and vice versa.
Notice that conditioned on (m, m′), whose distribution is (ϵ, δ)-close, the generation of the view
(U, V, T) is the same regardless of the input being x or x′.
Thus, by post-processing theorem
and Lemma B.1, we can easily show that M′
1 is (ϵ, δ)-DO. Also, suppose there are t clients that are
corrupted by the adversary. Notice that all honest clients run R() locally. Then, we can simply just
41

consider the honest client set, which has size n −t and the aforementioned argument still holds, as
long as we plug n −t into Lemma B.1. We have:
Corollary B.2. For any δ > 0 and ϵ0 ≤log

n−t
16 log(2/δ)

, M′
1 is (ϵ, δ)-DO with ϵ = O

(1−e−ϵ0)eϵ0/2√
log(1/δ)
√n−t

when at most t clients are corrupted by the adversary.
Now, we only need to prove the following key lemma and the proof is finished. In this proof,
we will use techniques from Gordon et al. [GKLX22] in a non-black box way.
Lemma B.3. M′
1 is (0, 0)-NP.
Proof. Given any view of the adversary (U, V, T) that has non-zero probability when the input is
x or x′, it suﬀices to give a (0, 0)-matching on the output space of M′
1 conditioned on (U, V, T) as
in Lemma 4.1.
If client i is sampling from R(x1) or R(x′
1), we call that client i is cloning R(x1) or R(x′
1).
Recall that V is the subset of clients (including client 1) that clone either R(x1) or R(x′
1), and U
is the multi-set of the messages they generate.
Without loss of generality, we assume that all clients in V are honest; otherwise, we remove
dishonest clients from V (and also their messages from U). Denote ℓ= |V | and we can rename the
clients such that V = [ℓ] without loss of generality. For clients i /∈V , their messages in the output
are already determined by T. For the rest of the proof, since we will always conditioned on T, we
will focus on the part of the output space Yℓcorresponding to the clients in V .
To recap the setup, we have fixed some neighboring inputs x and x′ and conditioned on some
subset V = [ℓ] of clients that clone either R(x1) or R(x′
1), and their multi-set U of output messages
(such that the view (U, V ) has non-zero probability in both executions). We use SEQU to denote the
multi-set of the ℓ! permutations of messages in U, where each permutation can be interpreted as an
output in Yℓ. Since U itself is a multi-set, then so is SEQU; for the purpose of distinguishing repeated
elements in U, we can artificially attach labels on them which will help to resolve any ambiguity.
Observe that conditioning on (U, V ), only outputs in SEQU can have non-zero probabilities in either
executions. So we only need to build the mappings w(y, y′) for y, y′ ∈SEQU.
Conditional Probability Calculations. Before we build the mapping, we need to figure out the condi-
tional probabilities of the outputs. For each y ∈SEQU, we will calculate Pr[M′
1(x) = y|ViewM′
1(x) =
(U, V, T)]. For each y′ ∈SEQU, we will calculate Pr[M′
1(x′) = y′|ViewM′
1(x′) = (U, V, T)]. For
simpilicity, we use Prx[·] to denote probabilities associated with the execution given input x, and
Prx′[·] to denote those associated given input x′. So we write the previous conditional probabilities
as Prx[y | U, V, T], Prx′[y′ | U, V, T] for short.
We use µ and µ′ to denote the distribution for R(x1) and R(x′
1), respectively. Also, we define
µ(·) and µ′(·) as their probability density functions. For i ∈V such that i ̸= 1, client i will clone
either R(x1) or R(x′
1) with 1
2 probability (conditioned on only V ); in other words, it will generate a
message sampled from the mixture distribution ω = 1
2µ+ 1
2µ′. We also denote ω(·) as its probability
density function.
We first compute the probabilities corresponding to the execution on x. Conditioned on V , for
each y ∈SEQU, we have
Pr
x [y | V, T] = µ(y1)ω(y2) · · · ω(yl) = µ(y1)
ω(y1)
Y
u∈U
ω(u).
By enumerating all l! sequences in SEQU, we have Prx[U | V, T] = P
y∈SEQU Prx[y | V, T].
42

Observe that the above probability is the sum of ℓ! terms, each of which corresponds to a
sequence in SEQU. Hence, for each y ∈SEQU,
Pr
x [y | (U, V, T)] = Prx[y | V, T]
Prx[U | V, T] =
µ(y1)
ω(y1)
Q
u∈U ω(u)
P
z∈SEQU
µ(z1)
ω(z1)
Q
u∈U ω(u)
=
1
(ℓ−1)!
µ(y1)/ω(y1)
P
z∈U µ(z)/ω(z),
where the last equality holds, because we can group the ℓ! possible sequences in SEQU according
to the message sent from client 1, i.e., z1. Hence, there are ℓgroups and each group has (ℓ−1)!
sequences.
By the same calculation, for the execution on x′, we have:
Pr
x′ [y | (U, V, T)] =
1
(ℓ−1)!
µ′(y1)/ω(y1)
P
z∈U µ′(z)/ω(z).
Building the (0, 0)-matching. We are now ready to build the (0, 0)-matching w : Yℓ× Yℓ→[0, 1].
Notice that we only need to assign non-zero value to w(y, y′) where y, y′ ∈SEQU, because only
those sequences will have non-zero probability in the execution conditioned on (U, V, T).
Given a vector y ∈Yℓand some index k ∈[ℓ], we use y1↔k as the sequence produced by
interchanging coordinates between the 1st and the kth positions. For each y ∈SEQU, it has ℓ
neighbors: y1↔1, y1↔2, . . . , y1↔ℓ. We let
w(y, y1↔k) =
1
(ℓ−1)!
µ(y1)/ω(y1)
P
z∈U µ(z)/ω(z) ×
µ′(yk)/ω(yk)
P
z∈U µ′(z)/ω(z)
It’s easy to check that this matching satisfies all the conditions in Lemma 4.1:
(a) We know that y ∼y1↔k, so w(y, y′) will only be non-zero if y ∼y′.
(b) For each y ∈SEQu, we have that
X
k∈[ℓ]
w(y, y1↔k) =
1
(ℓ−1)!
µ(y1)/ω(y1)
P
z∈U µ(z)/ω(z)
P
k∈[ℓ] µ′(yk)/ω(yk)
P
z∈U µ′(z)/ω(z)
=
1
(ℓ−1)!
µ(y1)/ω(y1)
P
z∈U µ(z)/ω(z).
The last equality holds because y1, . . . , yℓis a permutation of U.
So we get that P
k∈[ℓ] w(y, y1↔k) = Prx[y | (U, V, T)].
(c) For all y′ = (y′
1, . . . , y′
ℓ) ∈SEQU, it also has ℓneighbors y′
1↔1, y′
1↔2, . . . , y′
1↔ℓand only those
neighbors will satisfy w(y′
1↔k, y′) > 0. We simply check that
X
k∈[ℓ]
w(y′
1↔k, y′) =
1
(ℓ−1)!
µ′(y′
1)/ω(y′
1)
P
z∈U µ′(z)/ω(z)
P
k∈[ℓ] µ(y′
k)/ω(y′
k)
P
z∈U µ(z)/ω(z)
=
1
(ℓ−1)!
µ′(y′
1)/ω(y′
1)
P
z∈U µ′(z)/ω(z).
The last equality holds because y′
1, . . . , y′
ℓis a permutation of U.
So we get that P
k∈[ℓ] w(y′
1↔k, y′) = Prx′[y′ | (U, V, T)].
(d) We simply have that
X
y,y′∈SEQU
w(y, y′) =
X
y∈SEQU
X
k∈[ℓ]
w(y, y1↔k) =
X
y∈SEQU
Pr
x [y | (U, V, T)] = 1.
All conditions hold for the (0, 0)-matching, so we know that M′
1 is (0, 0)-NP.
43

C
Discussion: Generalizing to Uncountable Sample Spaces
In this section, we describe how Lemma 4.1 may be generalized to uncountable sample spaces. We
show how Lemma 4.1 can be derived from a couple of conjectures that can be viewed as uncountable
variants of some well-known primal-dual results on bipartite matching and vertex cover. Proving
these conjectures is an interesting open question.
We first introduce generalized bipartite matching on measure spaces. Note that we use notation
from measure theory that can capture both discrete and uncountable spaces.
Definition C.1 (Generalized Bipartite Matching). Consider the following bipartite matching prob-
lem.
Bipartite graph.
Suppose (Ω1, µ1) and (Ω2, µ2) are measure spaces, each of which represents a
vertex set in a bipartite graph. Suppose E ⊆Ω1 × Ω2 is a (measurable) subset representing the
edges of the bipartite graph, where for each x ∈Ω1, E(x) := {y ∈Ω2 : (x, y) ∈E} is a measurable
subset denoting the neighbors of x in Ω2, and E(y) ⊆Ω1 is defined analogously for y ∈Ω2.
Vertex capacities. Let p : Ω1 →R+ and q : Ω2 →R+ be measurable functions denoting vertex
capacities. We consider the special case that
R
x∈Ω1 p(x)dµ1(x) < +∞and
R
y∈Ω2 q(y)dµ2(y) < +∞.
Feasible matching. A feasible matching is a measurable function w : E →R+ satisfying the vertex
capacity constraints:
• For all x ∈Ω1,
R
y∈E(x) w(x, y)dµ2(y) ≤p(x).
• For all y ∈Ω2,
R
x∈E(y) w(x, y)dµ1(x) ≤q(y).
Maximum matching. The goal is to “find” a feasible matching w that maximizes the objective
function:
R
(x,y)∈E w(x, y)dµ1(x)dµ2(y).
Interpreting Lemma 4.1 with Definition C.1. Definition C.1 is related to the second statement
in Lemma 4.1. The edges in E corresponds to neighboring elements in the relation ∼. For the
discrete spaces, the capacity for a vertex a in the first space is p(a) = Pr[A = a], and the capacity
for b in the second space is q(b) = eϵ · Pr[B = b]. Statement 2(d) means that there is a feasible
matching w with objective value at least 1 −δ.
As in the finite case, the dual problem for Definition C.1 is the generalized vertex cover problem.
Definition C.2 (Generalized Vertex Cover Problem). Consider the bipartite graph in Defini-
tion C.1 between measure space (Ω1, µ1) and (Ω2, µ2) with edges in E ⊆Ω1 × Ω2.
Vertex costs. The measurable functions p : Ω1 →R+ and q : Ω2 : Ω2 →R+ are interpreted as
vertex costs.
Feasible vertex cover. A feasible vertex cover consists of a pair of measurable functions α : Ω1 →
[0, 1] and β : Ω2 →[0, 1] such that for all (x, y) ∈E, α(x) + β(y) ≥1.
Minimum vertex cover. The goal is to “find” a feasible vertex cover (α, β) that minimizes the cost
objective:
R
x∈Ω1 α(x)p(x)dµ1(x) +
R
y∈Ω2 β(y)q(y)dµ2(y).
One can easily check that weak duality holds for the problems in Definitions C.1 and C.2.
Observe that w ≡0 is feasible for the primal problem and α ≡β ≡1 is feasible for the dual
problem. The first conjecture is that strong duality also holds.
Conjecture C.3 (Strong Duality). There exist primal and dual feasible solutions in Definitions C.1
and C.2 with the same objective value, and hence, each is an optimum solution in its corresponding
problem.
44

Ease of proof. We actually believe that Conjecture C.3 is more like a claim, because strong duality
for finite LP can be proved via Farkas’ Lemma, which can be derived from the hyperplane separation
theorem. Hence, it should be a fairly straightforward exercise to apply the corresponding Hahn-
Banach separation theorem to general spaces, where one might need to add appropriate assumptions
on the measure spaces (Ω1, µ1) and (Ω2, µ2).
Conjecture C.4 (Integrality Gap for Vertex Cover). For the vertex cover problem in Definition C.2,
there exists an integral feasible solution α : Ω1 →{0, 1} and β : Ω2 →{0, 1} that attains the
minimum.
Ease of proof. If E is finite, then this is a well-known result by considering the vertex cover polytope
for bipartite graphs. However, we are not aware of any result in the literature that can readily
extend the result to general uncountable bipartite graphs.
We next show that Lemma 4.1 is an easy corollary from Conjectures C.3 and C.4.
Deriving Lemma 4.1. We consider the more diﬀicult direction of statement 1 implies statement
2. Proceeding with proof by contradiction, we assume that the primal objective of the maximum
matching is strictly less than 1 −δ. By strong duality from Conjecture C.3, the exists a feasible
dual solution whose objective is also strictly less than 1 −δ.
By Conjecture C.4, we may assume that the dual solution (α, β) is integral. Define S := {x ∈
Ω1 : α(x) = 0} and T := {y ∈Ω2 : β(x) = 1}. Since (α, β) is a feasible vertex cover, it follows that
all the neighbors in S are contained in T.
Recall that the cost functions satisfy p(a) = Pr[A = a] and q(b) = eϵ Pr[B = b] (which are
interpreted as probability density functions in the continuous case). Hence, the objective value of
(α, β) is:
Pr[A /∈S] + eϵ · Pr[B ∈T] ≥1 −Pr[A ∈S] + eϵ · Pr[B ∈N(S)].
Finally, since the value of (α, β) is also strictly less than 1 −δ, we immediately have
Pr[A ∈S] > eϵ · Pr[B ∈N(S)] + δ, obtaining the required contradition.
45

