Anamorphic Encryption, Revisited
Fabio Banﬁ1(B)
, Konstantin Gegier2
, Martin Hirt2, Ueli Maurer2,
and Guilherme Rito3
1 Z¨uhlke Engineering AG, Schlieren, Switzerland
fabio.banfi@zuhlke.com
2 Department of Computer Science, ETH Zurich, Z¨urich, Switzerland
{konstantin.gegier,hirt,maurer}@inf.ethz.ch
3 Ruhr-Universit¨at Bochum, Bochum, Germany
guilherme.teixeirarito@rub.de
Abstract. An anamorphic encryption scheme allows two parties who
share a so-called double key to embed covert messages in ciphertexts of
an established PKE scheme. This protects against a dictator that can
force the receiver to reveal the secret keys for the PKE scheme, but who
is oblivious about the existence of the double key. We identify two limita-
tions of the original model by Persiano, Phan, and Yung (EUROCRYPT
2022). First, in their deﬁnition a double key can only be generated once,
together with a key-pair. This has the drawback that a receiver who
wants to use the anamorphic mode after a dictator comes to power,
needs to deploy a new key-pair, a potentially suspicious act. Second, a
receiver cannot distinguish whether or not a ciphertext contains a covert
message.
In this work we propose a new model that overcomes these limita-
tions. First, we allow to associate multiple double keys to a key-pair,
after its deployment. This also enables deniability in case the double key
only depends on the public key. Second, we propose a natural robust-
ness notion, which guarantees that anamorphically decrypting a regularly
encrypted message results in a special symbol indicating that no covert
message is contained, which also eliminates certain attacks.
Finally, to instantiate our new, stronger deﬁnition of anamorphic
encryption, we provide generic and concrete constructions. Concretely,
we show that ElGamal and Cramer-Shoup satisfy a new condition, selec-
tive randomness recoverability, which enables robust anamorphic exten-
sions, and we also provide a robust anamorphic extension for RSA-OAEP.
Keywords: anamorphic encryption · dictator model · robustness ·
selective randomness recoverability
1
Introduction
1.1
Background and Motivation
Cryptography has a huge impact on society, particularly with regards to the
right to privacy. The increased use of electronic communication has heightened
F. Banﬁand G. Rito—Work done while the author was at ETH Zurich.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2024
M. Joye and G. Leander (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2024, LNCS 14652, pp. 3–32, 2024.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-58723-8_1

4
F. Banﬁet al.
concerns over privacy, leading to debates between researchers and politicians
about the need to limit encryption as a safeguard to privacy.
In [26], Persiano, Phan, and Yung, point out that the security guarantees
oﬀered by cryptography for private communication rely on two implicit and fun-
damental assumptions: the sender-freedom assumption and the receiver-privacy
assumption. The former assumes that, when using a regular public-key encryp-
tion (PKE) scheme, the sender is free to pick the message to be sent, while
the latter assumes that the message is considered private based on the assump-
tion that the receiver’s private key is not compromised. The authors argue that
both assumptions can be challenged by those parties whose power cryptogra-
phy threatens to limit. For instance, in a dictator-led country, individuals can
be forced by authorities to encrypt and send adversarially-selected messages,
thereby undermining the sender-freedom assumption. Additionally, law enforce-
ment agencies can request the private keys of citizens, thereby undermining the
receiver-privacy assumption. This presents a signiﬁcant challenge for cryptogra-
phy, particularly as governments around the world seek to limit the power of
encryption in order to maintain control.
In order to overcome the second challenge, Persiano et al. introduce a new
cryptographic paradigm, receiver-anamorphic encryption. As introduced in [26],
a receiver-anamorphic PKE scheme PKE = (Gen, Enc, Dec) can be deployed
in two diﬀerent ways: normal or anamorphic. In the normal mode, a receiver
initially generates a regular key-pair (sk, pk) using PKE.Gen and authentically
broadcasts the public key pk to everyone; then a sender can encrypt a mes-
sage m with pk using PKE.Enc, which can be recovered by the receiver from the
resulting ciphertext c with the secret key sk using PKE.Dec. Additionally, PKE is
associated with a so-called anamorphic triplet AnamPKE = (aGen, aEnc, aDec).
In the anamorphic mode, the receiver initially generates an anamorphic key-
pair (ask, apk) together with a so-called double key dk using AnamPKE.aGen,
and only broadcasts the anamorphic public key apk, which ideally is indistin-
guishable from a regular public key pk. Now, any sender can use apk to nor-
mally encrypt a message m using PKE.Enc, but selected senders, with whom
the receiver additionally shared the double key dk, using AnamPKE.aEnc will
be able to embed a covert message ˆm in the encryption of a normal message
m. Hence, a ciphertext c produced using the double key dk (which necessarily
also contains the anamorphic public key apk) carries two messages: the normal
message m that can be decrypted with the anamorphic secret key ask using
PKE.Dec, and the covert message ˆm that can be decrypted with the double key
dk using AnamPKE.aDec. Such scheme allows to protect sensitive information
from an adversary who might force the receiver to surrender the secret key.
When requested to do so, the owner of an anamorphic key-pair (ask, apk) will
reveal the associated anamorphic secret key ask, but not the double key dk.
The adversary will then gain access only to the normal message m, while the
covert message ˆm containing sensitive information remains private. The security
requirement is that the anamorphic key-pair (ask, apk) must be indistinguish-
able from its normal counterparts (sk, pk), and the ciphertexts produced using

Anamorphic Encryption, Revisited
5
the double key dk must be indistinguishable from those produced using a normal
public key pk.
For the receiver-anamorphic setting, on which this paper solely focuses, Per-
siano et al. put forth two constructions. The ﬁrst is based on rejection sampling,
a technique inspired by the biased-ciphertext attack of [8], that allows to send
one bit as covert message. As part of their shared double key, sender and receiver
agree upon a secret key K for a PRF F mapping ciphertexts to bits. Then, to
embed a covert bit b in the encryption of a normal message m, the sender gener-
ates fresh ciphertexts c ←Enc(pk, m) until F(K, c) = b. Note that this approach
can be naturally extended to bitstrings, but to keep anamorphic encryption eﬃ-
cient, the sender can only transmit logarithmically many bits in the security
parameter κ.
The second construction is based on the celebrated Naor-Yung transform
(NYT), that given an IND-CPA PKE scheme CPA = (Gen, Enc, Dec) and a
simulation-sound NIZK NIZK = (Prove, Verify) for a polynomial-time relation
capturing equality of plaintext for CPA, with simulator (S0, S1), yields an IND-
CCA PKE scheme NYT = (Gen′, Enc′, Dec′). We ﬁrst brieﬂy recall how the
traditional NYT is deﬁned, and then give an overview of its anamorphic mode
given by Persiano et al. The key generation algorithm NYT.Gen′ deﬁnes the pub-
lic key pk ′ := (pk 0, pk 1, σ), where pk 0 and pk 1 two independently chosen public
keys of CPA, and σ is a CRS for NIZK. Crucially, the secret key is deﬁned only as
sk ′ := sk 0, the secret key associated with pk 0, that is, sk 1 (the secret key asso-
ciated with pk 1) is forgotten by NYT.Gen′. To encrypt message m, the encryp-
tion algorithm NYT.Enc′ ﬁrst computes ciphertexts c0 := CPA.Enc(pk 0, m; r0)
and c1 := CPA.Enc(pk 1, m; r1), using random and independent coin tosses r0
and r1. Then, it runs NIZK.Prove on input instance ((pk 0, c0), (pk 1c1)), witness
(r0, r1, m), and σ from pk ′, producing a proof π that c0 and c1 encrypt the same
message, and ﬁnally outputs ciphertext c := (c0, c1, π). The decryption algo-
rithm NYT.Dec′ simply runs NIZK.Verify to check π and, if successful, outputs
m := Dec(sk 0, c0).
The anamorphic triplet AnamNYT = (aGen, aEnc, aDec) for NYT is deﬁned
as follows. The anamorphic key generation algorithm AnamNYT.aGen deﬁnes
the anamorphic public key as apk := (pk 0, pk 1, σ), where pk 0 and pk 1 two inde-
pendently chosen public keys of CPA, but the CRS σ is instead obtained by
running simulator S0, which returns the CRS-trapdoor pair (σ, τ). The anamor-
phic secret key is deﬁned as ask := sk 0, whereas the double key is deﬁned as
dk := (pk 0, pk 1, sk 1, τ). The anamorphic encryption algorithm AnamNYT.aEnc
takes as input the double key dk, a normal messages m, and a covert message ˆm
from the same message space, and ﬁrst computes c0 := CPA.Enc(pk 0, m; r0) and
c1 := CPA.Enc(pk 1, ˆm; r1). The (fake) proof π is then constructed by running the
simulator S1 on input the trapdoor τ and the instance ((pk 0, c0), (pk 1, c1)). The
anamorphic decryption algorithm AnamNYT.aDec works exactly as NYT.Dec′.
Maybe somewhat surprisingly, the anamorphic mode for the Naor-Yung scheme
allows to embed covert messages from the same domain of normal messages.

6
F. Banﬁet al.
Persiano et al. argue that therefore, this eﬀectively allows for bandwidth rate of
1, as opposed to (log κ)/κ for the rejection sampling technique.
Limitation of Persiano’s et al. Work. In this paper we identify two limita-
tions of the original work. The ﬁrst is that in Persiano et al.’s model of (receiver-
)anamorphic encryption, anamorphic key-pairs and double keys are coupled, that
is, once the public key is deployed, it is not possible anymore to associate with
it a new double key. This is indeed the case for their Naor-Yung anamorphic
encryption scheme. To see this, imagine a receiver broadcasting a regular NYT
public key (pk 0, pk 1, σ); now, since the CRS σ is generated normally rather
than with the simulator S0, it is impossible to associate a fresh double key
dk = (pk 0, pk 1, sk 1, τ), because the receiver neither has sk 1 (recall that this is
forgotten by regular key-generation), nor the trapdoor τ.
The second limitation is that in the original set of notions, an important
property is missing: When decrypting anamorphically a ciphertext that was gen-
erated using normal encryption, it should be natural to except an error signaling
the receiver that the ciphertext is void of any covert message. By default this
is not achieved by both the rejection sampling technique and the Naor-Yung
anamorphic scheme, since anamorphic decryption will always output a message.
We will therefore modify the model by allowing double keys to be created
independently of key-pairs, and also introduce a new notion for anamorphic
encryption which we call robustness, addressing the above mentioned issue. We
will ﬁrst develop simple solutions relying on sender and receiver being synchro-
nized by keeping matching counters, but the main challenge will be to get rid
of this last assumption. Therefore, the natural question which we fully solve in
this paper can be summarized as:
Can we construct (receiver-)anamorphic PKE schemes that are robust and
do not require the sender and the receiver to be synchronized?
We will aﬃrmatively answer this question by proposing both an improvement
of the model, as well as novel constructions within it, starting from ones that
assume synchrony between sender and receiver, and culminating in one which
is unsynchronized. We see a parallel between our work and that of Abdalla et
al. [1], which introduced the robustness notion for PKE only a decade after the
notion of key-privacy was originally introduced by Bellare et al. [5], and which
are by now understood to be two essential properties which go hand in hand in
the context of anonymity (cf. [21]).
1.2
Contributions
Stronger Model. In [26], the anamorphic key generation algorithm outputs a
key-pair and a double key. The requirement is then that the output “anamorphic”
key-pair essentially is indistinguishable from a regular key-pair. We strengthen
the model by requiring that the anamorphic key generation only outputs a double

Anamorphic Encryption, Revisited
7
key, on input a key-pair. Therefore, in our model there is no “anamorphic” key-
pair, and for this reason in this work we use quotation marks (when referring
to concepts from the original work of [26]). For the same reason, in our work
we update the original term “anamorphic triplet” used by Persiano et al. to
“anamorphic extension”. We identify several advantages of our new model.
Multiple double keys. Our new model allows the receiver to set up several
double keys for its public key, not just one. This enables the possibility to
have multiple covert channels, something that is for example impossible to
achieve with the Naor-Yung anamorphic encryption scheme.
On-the-ﬂy double keys. Maybe even more crucially, being able to open a covert
channel after having deployed a public key seems to be a crucial requirement
in the dictator model envisioned by Persiano et al. Indeed, we think that
the Naor-Yung anamorphic encryption scheme partially contradicts the orig-
inal paradigm, since a dictator that comes to power after the receiver has
deployed a public key, will be suspicious of such public key being updated (to
accommodate for a secret double key).
Covert channel towards a diﬀerent receiver. Another advantage of decou-
pling double keys from key pairs is that it potentially allows to embed covert
messages addressed to a party diﬀerent than the one in possession of the
secret key associated with the public key used. We remark that this is only
the case if anamorphic decryption does not depend on the secret key of the
normal receiver, which will be the case for all our constructions but the ﬁrst.
Deniability. Finally, we note that our model naturally enables an important
property for the receiver: deniability. In case the double key only depends on
the public key (which is indeed the case for all of our constructions), a mali-
cious sender holding the receiver’s double key cannot convince the dictator
that the receiver holds the same double key, and therefore would be misbehav-
ing (in the eyes of the dictator). More precisely, because the double key can
be generated either by the sender or the receiver, the sender could simulate
a double key and a couple of messages, without the help of the receiver.
This is in contrast with Persiano et al.’s anamorphic Naor-Yung transform
AnamNYT. There, note that a malicious sender could frame a receiver who set
up a double key in conjunction with an “anamorphic” key-pair (and therefore
implicitly depending on the “anamorphic” secret key) simply by conveying
the double key dk = (pk 0, pk 1, sk 1, τ) to the dictator. Then, the latter can
do the following, to be convinced that indeed the receiver set up the key-
pair pk = (pk 0, pk 1, σ) anamorphically: First, pick two diﬀerent messages
m0, m1 and obtain the ciphertexts c0 := CPA.Enc(pk 0, m0; r0) and c1 :=
CPA.Enc(pk 1, m1; r1), for some fresh and independent randomnesses r0, r1.
Then, produce a fake proof π using the simulator S1 on input the trapdoor τ
(from the double key dk) and the (false) instance ((pk 0, c0), (pk 1, c1)). Finally,
run NIZK.Verify on input the CRS σ, the instance ((pk 0, c0), (pk 1, c1)), and
the proof π. If this yields 1, then the dictator can tell that indeed it was able
to generate a covert message that is bound to the receiver via its public key
pk. The key insight is that this proves that the receiver must have shared the

8
F. Banﬁet al.
trapdoor of the simulated CRS with the snitching sender, as otherwise the
latter could not have come up with a valid trapdoor τ for the CRS σ that
would have made the dictator successfully verify.
Robustness Notion. In [26], no notion of robustness was considered. In par-
ticular, for a given PKE scheme (Gen, Enc, Dec) with an anamorphic extension
(aGen, aEnc, aDec) and honestly generated (“anamorphic”) key-pair (sk, pk) and
double key dk, the authors only contemplated the following three cases (addi-
tionally to the case consisting of the regular use of the base scheme):
1. A message and covert message pair (m, ˆm) is encrypted using the anamorphic
encryption algorithm aEnc and is decrypted using the anamorphic decryption
algorithm aDec (fully anamorphic encryption mode or fAME in the original
work).
2. A message and covert message pair (m, ˆm) is encrypted using the anamor-
phic encryption algorithm aEnc and is decrypted using the regular decryption
algorithm Dec (anamorphic with normal decryption or andAME in the original
work).
3. A message m is encrypted using the regular encryption algorithm Enc and is
decrypted using the regular decryption algorithm Dec (normal mode of oper-
ation or nAME in the original work). Clearly, an important case is missing:1
4. A message m is encrypted using the regular encryption algorithm Enc and is
decrypted using the anamorphic decryption algorithm aDec.
In this latter case, it is intuitively desirable that a special symbol ⊥is out-
put indicating that the ciphertext (intentionally) contains no covert message.
This is important because in the dictator model introduced in [26], a crucial
paradigm is that of anamorphically enhancing schemes that are well-established,
and therefore potentially already being actively used for regular communication
(and only occasionally required to transmit covert messages, from some point in
time onward). We put forth a notion of robustness for anamorphic encryption
that aims exactly at capturing this. We require that messages encrypted with
the regular encryption algorithm, if decrypted anamorphically, reveal no covert
message whatsoever (since there was none meant in the ﬁrst place), that is, the
special symbol ⊥is output instead.
Maybe even more critically, we also observe that robustness might be not
solely about functionality, but about security as well: The dictator could trick
receivers into reveling that they are indeed in possession of a double key by
sending them normally encrypted messages and observing whether they show
any reaction. For a non-robust anamorphic scheme this might indeed be the
case, while for a robust scheme this attack yields no information to the dictator.
Assuming we have an anamorphic extension of a PKE scheme that is not
robust in the sense above, a naive approach that achieves the notion is for the
1 The original work considers a further case, the anamorphic with normal encryption
or aneAME, but in our model, since the anamorphic key generation algorithm does
not output a key-pair, this case is equivalent to our third case, and hence irrelevant.

Anamorphic Encryption, Revisited
9
sender and receiver to agree on a subspace of the covert messages that are deemed
invalid. The larger such subspace, the higher the chances that a ciphertext not
intentionally carrying a covert message, is not falsely interpreted by the receiver
as instead carrying one. For example, considering the rejection sampling tech-
nique outlined before for transmitting one bit covertly, one could pick a PRF
mapping ciphertexts to t + 1 bits instead of just one bit, and then require that
only ciphertext mapped by the PRF to a bitstring 0tb, for some b ∈{0, 1}, are
to be understood as intentionally carrying the covert message b.
Indeed, in one of our constructions, we will follow this approach. Still, a
natural question is whether it is possible to construct anamorphic extensions
that already achieve robustness, without the need of sacriﬁcing a subset of the
possible covert messages as in the approach outlined above. We will show that
indeed such anamorphic extensions are possible.
Constructions. We begin by providing a generic approach to obtain anamor-
phic extensions achieving robustness that assumes sender and receiver to be
synchronized, that is, by assuming they use matching counters to anamorphi-
cally encrypt and decrypt the same covert message. We then identify a new
class of PKE schemes by putting forth a new property, which we call selective
randomness recoverability (SRR), and which allows for the parties to be unsyn-
chronized. More precisely, the sender will keep state (or even be stateless), but
crucially the receiver will be able to decrypt without the need of knowing the
sender’s state. We will show that the well-established schemes of ElGamal [16]
and Cramer-Shoup [14] satisfy our SRR notion, and can therefore be used in
a robustly anamorphic mode. Finally, we also provide a generic transformation
yielding a robustly anamorphic encryption scheme from one that is anamorphic
but not robust. We apply this transformation to the OAEP scheme from [9], thus
showing that the well-established RSA-OAEP scheme can be used in a robustly
anamorphic mode.
On Covert Message Space Size. We remark that our constructions support
covert messages smaller than normal messages, unlike Persiano et al.’s anamor-
phic Naor-Yung transform AnamNYT which allows covert messages of the same
size as normal ones. Indeed, as the authors of [26] claim, their scheme achieves
bandwidth rate of 1, since it is possible to embed covert messages from the
same space as that of normal messages. However, we argue that their notion of
bandwidth rate is perhaps not practically justiﬁable. Rather than comparing the
size of covert messages with the size of normal messages, we propose to com-
pare it with the expansion caused by encryption. Intuitively, this makes sense,
because, in practical terms, the number of extra bits introduced by encrypting
deﬁne an upper bound on how many bits can actually be securely embedded as
covert message in the ciphertext. With respect to this new notion, the scheme
AnamNYT would not achieve bandwidth rate of 1. See the full version [4] for a
more in-depth discussion.

10
F. Banﬁet al.
1.3
Related Work
Anamorphic encryption shares similar goals with key-escrow [2,3,11,15,17,19,
25,35], deniable encryption [12], kleptography [8,13,28,29,33–36], (public-key)
steganography [27,30,31], and subvertable backdoored encryption [20], but also
signiﬁcantly diﬀers from those in various aspects. For a comprehensive compar-
ison to the cited papers, we refer the reader to the original work by Persiano et
al. [26].
Concurrently to our work, Kutylowski, Persiano, Phan, Yung, and Zawada
have extended the anamorphic setting to capture digital signatures [23] and also
investigated more PKE schemes satisfying their notions of receiver-anamorphic
encryption [22]. We point out that in the latter work, even though the authors
considered anamorphic modes for schemes also studied in our paper, such as
ElGamal, Cramer-Shoup, and RSA-OAEP, their model does not include the
notion of robustness. Moreover, maybe even more importantly, we note that one
of their solutions, used for example in their anamorphic mode for ElGamal and
Cramer-Shoup, consists of including the secret key as part of the double key,
which is not the case for any of our constructions. We consider this approach
dissatisfactory, since sharing the secret key directly undermines the security of
the regular use of the underlying PKE scheme.
After publication of our preprint [4], Wang, Chen, Huang, Yung [32] also
introduced a robustness notion, but for sender-anamorphic encryption. Their
notion also captures the guarantee that decryption of anamorphic ciphertexts
with the wrong duplicate secret key should result in an explicit abort signal.
2
Preliminaries
2.1
Notation
Let N = {1, 2, . . .}. For any n ∈N, we use the convention [n] .= {1, . . . , n}. For
any sets K, T , we model a look-up table T mapping a key k ∈K to a value v ∈V
as a function K →V ∪{⊥}, and we deﬁne the following operations: Initializing a
look-up table T to an empty one is denoted T := [ ]; Assigning value v to key k
in T is denoted T[k] := v, and we assume that any value previously assigned to k
will be overwritten by v; Reading the value assigned to key k in T and assigning
it to v is denoted v := T[k], and if T does not hold any value for k (that is, no
value has been assigned to k in T before), then v will be assigned the special
symbol ⊥. Finally, if X is a ﬁnite set, we let x
$←X denote picking an element of
X uniformly at random and assigning it to x, and for a probabilistic algorithm A
we let y ←AO1,O2,... denote running A with oracle access to O1, O2, . . ., modeled
as functions, and assigning the output to y.
2.2
Games, Adversaries, and Reductions
We work in the concrete security setting pioneered by Bellare et al. [6,7], and
use the code-based game-playing framework of Bellare and Rogaway [10]. All of

Anamorphic Encryption, Revisited
11
our security notions are deﬁned following the real-or-ideal paradigm, where a
distinguisher 2 needs to tell two games apart. A game G speciﬁes a number of
procedures O1, O2, . . . that model oracles for the distinguisher D. G also option-
ally deﬁnes a procedure Init, and (if not speciﬁed otherwise), D will output a
bit b. Execution of distinguisher D with game G then consists of running D with
oracle access to Init and O1, O2, . . ., with the restrictions that D’s single call to
Init must be its ﬁrst overall call. Any input given to Init as well as any variable
speciﬁed therein, will be subsequently accessible (both readable and writable) to
any of the other oracles. Moreover, a distinguisher D′ internally running another
distinguisher D with (simulated) oracles Init∗, O1, O2, . . . will also learn all the
input and output values resulting from the interaction of D with its oracles, and
these will be implicitly referred in the code. The output of the execution is the bit
output by D, and we use the notation Pr[G(D)] .= Pr[b = 0 | b ←DInit,O1,O2,...].
We abuse notation and let Pr[bad] denote the probability that a ﬂag bad (initially
set to false) is set to true in some game. Finally, in order not to overload the
notation, we associate public and anamorphic parameters of schemes implicitly
in games and adversaries.
2.3
Public-Key Encryption (PKE)
We begin by recalling the conventional syntax of public-key encryption and its
associated notion of security. In this work we only consider indistinguishability
under chosen-plaintext attacks, rather than chosen-ciphertext attacks.
Deﬁnition 1. A public-key encryption (PKE) scheme is a tuple Π = (Gen, Enc,
Dec) depending on some implicit public parameter pp, where:
– Gen is a probabilistic algorithm that outputs a key-pair (sk, pk) ←Gen().
– Enc is a probabilistic algorithm that on input a public key pk and a message
m ∈M, outputs a ciphertext c ←Enc(pk, m). When necessary, we make the
randomness r ∈R explicit by writing c := Enc(pk, m; r).
– Dec is a deterministic algorithm that on input a secret key sk and a ciphertext
c, outputs a message m := Dec(sk, c) ∈M, or potentially a special symbol
⊥/∈M indicating an error.
We call a PKE scheme perfectly correct if for every message m ∈M,
Pr[Dec(sk, Enc(pk, m)) = m | (sk, pk) ←Gen()] = 1.
In this paper we tacitly consider only PKE schemes that are perfectly correct
and which sample the randomness always uniformly at random, which means
that c ←Enc(pk, m) is always the same as r
$←R followed by c := Enc(pk, m; r).
Moreover, since we only consider PKE schemes that achieve IND-CPA security,
we also assume that for any pk, m, r, and r′, Enc(pk, m; r) ̸= Enc(pk, m; r′).
2 We use the term distinguisher rather than adversary because the latter is more
general, but our notions are all real-or-ideal.

12
F. Banﬁet al.
Game Gprf-0
F
Init():
01 K
$←K
Eval(X):
02 return F(K, X)
Game Gprf-1
F
Init():
01 f
$←YX
Eval(X):
02 return f(X)
Fig. 1. Games deﬁning prf security for a function F : K × X →Y.
2.4
Pseudorandom Functions (PRF)
Let F : K × X →Y be an eﬃciently computable function. We say that F is a
(secure) pseudorandom function (prf) if for any K ∈K, F(K, ·) is indistinguish-
able from a uniformly selected X →Y function f.
Deﬁnition 2. For F : K×X →Y, we deﬁne the advantage of a prf distinguisher
D as
Advprf
F (D) .= Pr[Gprf-0
F
(D)] −Pr[Gprf-1
F
(D)],
with games Gprf-0
F
and Gprf-1
F
as deﬁned in Fig. 1. We let q(D) denote the total
number of queries to Eval made by D.
3
Rethinking the Anamorphic Model
In this section we present our ﬁrst contribution regarding the model, which we
see as putting anamorphic encryption on solid grounds.3 Recall that in this paper
we are only focusing on receiver-anamorphic encryption, and therefore we will
drop the preﬁx most of the times.
3.1
Enhancing the Model: Decoupling Double Keys from Key-Pairs
As previously mentioned, our ﬁrst contribution consists in changing the model
for (receiver-)anamorphic encryption so that the process of generating a double
key is not coupled with the process of generating a key-pair. Again, this has
several advantages, such as allowing to set up double keys on the ﬂy for an
already deployed public key, the possibility to set up more than just one double
key, and therefore have diﬀerent covert channels, and ﬁnally also the possibility
to set up covert channels towards parties other than the holder of the used public
key.
3 We identify a parallel between our re-formulation and enhancement of the anamor-
phic model to the work of Young and Yung [37], who claimed to have done the same
for universal re-encryption of Golle et al. [18].

Anamorphic Encryption, Revisited
13
Syntax of (Receiver-)Anamorphic PKE. We begin by deﬁning the syntax
of an anamorphic extension Σ for a given PKE scheme Π. Note that Π implic-
itly deﬁnes some public parameters pp, upon which Σ’s implicit anamorphic
parameters ap depend.
Deﬁnition 3. For a PKE scheme Π = (Gen, Enc, Dec) with implicit public
parameter pp, an anamorphic extension for Π is a tuple Σ = (aGen, aEnc, aDec)
depending on some implicit anamorphic parameter ap (depending on pp), where:
– aGen is a probabilistic algorithm that on input a key-pair (sk, pk) for Π, out-
puts a double key dk ←aGen(sk, pk).
– aEnc is a probabilistic algorithm that on input a double key dk, a (normal)
message m ∈M for Π, and a covert message ˆm ∈
ˆ
M, outputs a cipher-
text c ←aEnc(dk, m, ˆm) for Π. When necessary, we make aEnc stateful by
including a state st as input and a new state st′ as output, and writing
(c; st′) := aEnc(dk, m, ˆm; st). We denote by ε the initial empty state.
– aDec is a deterministic algorithm that on input a double key dk and a cipher-
text c for Π, outputs a covert message ˆm := aDec(dk, c) ∈
ˆ
M or the special
symbol ⊥/∈ˆ
M indicating the absence of a covert message. When necessary,
we make aDec stateful including a state st as input and a new state st′ as
output, and writing ( ˆm; st′) := aDec(dk, c; st).
Note that unlike how we deﬁned PKE in Deﬁnition 1, for anamorphic exten-
sions we do not hard-code correctness in their syntax, but we will rather model
it as a separate property. The reason is that for one of our constructions, cor-
rectness will not be perfect, but only computational.
Correctness of (Receiver-)Anamorphic PKE. For a PKE scheme Π with
anamorphic extension Σ, we deﬁne correctness (cor) by capturing that for any
message m, it must be hard to ﬁnd a covert message ˆm which if encrypted
anamorphically with m into c ←aEnc(dk, m, ˆm) and subsequently anamorphi-
cally decrypted into ˆm′ := aDec(dk, c), is such that ˆm′ ̸= ˆm. Formally, instead
of deﬁning a game with a winning condition, we formulate this property as the
equivalent distinguishing problem.
Deﬁnition 4. For a PKE scheme Π with anamorphic extension Σ and arbitrary
message m ∈M, we deﬁne the advantage of a cor distinguisher D as
Advcor
Π,Σ,m(D) .= Pr[Gcor-0
Π,Σ,m(D)] −Pr[Gcor-1
Π,Σ,m(D)],
with games Gcor-0
Π,Σ,m and Gcor-1
Π,Σ,m as deﬁned in Fig. 2. We let q(D) denote the total
number of messages queried to AEncADec by D.
Security of (Receiver-)Anamorphic PKE.
Following [26], for a PKE
scheme Π with anamorphic extension Σ, we deﬁne security in terms of indis-
tinguishability of anamorphic mode from normal mode (sec). More speciﬁcally,

14
F. Banﬁet al.
Game Gcor-0
Π,Σ,m
Init():
01 (sk, pk) ←Gen()
02 dk ←aGen(sk, pk)
03 st := ε
AEncADec( ˆm):
04 c ←aEnc(dk, m, ˆm)
05 (c; st ) ←aEnc(dk, m, ˆm; st)
06 st := st
07 ˆm := aDec(dk, c)
08 return ˆm
Game Gcor-1
Π,Σ,m
Init():
01 // Do nothing
AEncADec( ˆm):
02 return ˆm
Fig. 2. Games deﬁning correctness of an anamorphic encryption scheme Π
=
(Gen, Enc, Dec) with anamorphic extension Σ = (aGen, aEnc, aDec). The boxed code
is for anamorphic extensions with stateful aEnc and stateless aDec.
Game Gsec-0
Π,Σ
Init():
01 (sk, pk) ←Gen()
02 dk ←aGen(sk, pk)
03 st := ε
04 return (sk, pk)
AEnc(m, ˆm):
05 c ←aEnc(dk, m, ˆm)
06 (c; st ) ←aEnc(dk, m, ˆm; st)
07 st := st
08 return c
Game Gsec-1
Π,Σ
Init():
01 (sk, pk) ←Gen()
02 return (sk, pk)
AEnc(m, ˆm):
03 c ←Enc(pk, m)
04 return c
Fig. 3.
Games
deﬁning
the
sec
notion
of
an
anamorphic
extension
Σ
=
(aGen, aEnc, aDec) for PKE scheme Π = (Gen, Enc, Dec). The boxed code is for anamor-
phic extensions with stateful aEnc.
we require for ciphertexts generated by the anamorphic encryption algorithm
to be indistinguishable from ciphertexts generated by the normal encryption
algorithm.
Deﬁnition 5. For a PKE scheme Π with anamorphic extension Σ, we deﬁne
the advantage of an sec distinguisher D as
Advsec
Π,Σ(D) .= Pr[Gsec-0
Π,Σ (D)] −Pr[Gsec-1
Π,Σ (D)],

Anamorphic Encryption, Revisited
15
Game Grob-0
Π,Σ
Init():
01 (sk, pk) ←Gen()
02 dk ←aGen(sk, pk)
EncADec(m , st ):
03 c ←Enc(pk, m)
04 ˆm := aDec(dk, c ; st )
05 return ˆm
Game Grob-1
Π,Σ
Init():
01 // Do nothing
EncADec(m , st ):
02 return ⊥
Fig. 4. Games deﬁning robustness of an anamorphic encryption scheme Π
=
(Gen, Enc, Dec) with anamorphic extension Σ = (aGen, aEnc, aDec). The boxed code
is for anamorphic extensions with stateful aDec.
with games Gsec-0
Π,Σ and Gsec-1
Π,Σ as deﬁned in Fig. 3. We let q(A) denote the total
number of messages queried to AEnc by A.
For a PKE scheme Π with anamorphic extension Σ, [26] additionally deﬁnes
security in terms of indistinguishability of anamorphic ciphertexts under a
chosen-plaintext attack (ind-anam-cpa). More speciﬁcally, they require that for
a ﬁxed (normal) message m, anamorphic encryptions of covert messages ˆm0
and ˆm1 with m be indistinguishable. They also show that the sec notion for
anamorphic extensions implies ind-anam-cpa security, which roughly speaking
means that in order to show that anamorphic ciphertexts are indistinguishable
from one another, it suﬃces to show that anamorphic ciphertexts are indistin-
guishable from regular ones. In the full version [4] we reformulate ind-anam-cpa
security and reprove the implication in our formalization.
3.2
Enhancing the Model: Robustness
For a PKE scheme Π with anamorphic extension Σ, we deﬁne robustness (rob)
by capturing that it must be hard to ﬁnd a message m which if encrypted
normally into c ←Enc(pk, m) and subsequently anamorphically decrypted into
ˆm := aDec(dk, c), is such that ˆm ̸= ⊥. Formally, instead of deﬁning a game with
a winning condition, we formulate this property as the equivalent distinguishing
problem.
Deﬁnition 6. For a PKE scheme Π with anamorphic extension Σ, we deﬁne
the advantage of a rob distinguisher D as
Advrob
Π,Σ(D) .= Pr[Grob-0
Π,Σ (D)] −Pr[Grob-1
Π,Σ (D)],
with games Grob-0
Π,Σ and Grob-1
Π,Σ as deﬁned in Fig. 4. We let q(D) denote the total
number of messages queried to EncADec by D.

16
F. Banﬁet al.
4
Generic Robustly Anamorphic Extensions
In this section we present four ways to achieve robustly anamorphic public-key
encryption. We begin with an overview of the results by giving, for each con-
struction, an informal interpretation and practicality considerations. All proofs
in this section are deferred to the full version [4].
4.1
Overview of the Results
We begin by proposing a simple approach that allows to enhance any PKE
scheme into one which has a robust anamorphic extension by embedding covert
messages in the randomness upon encryption. This ﬁrst solution is synchronized,
that is, requires sender and receiver to keep matching counters for each new
covert message.
Theorem (informal). Σ1 (Construction 1) provides a secure and robust (Def-
initions 5 and 6) synchronized anamorphic mode for any PKE scheme for trans-
mitting at most τ covert messages (Lemmas 1 and 2), for any τ with log τ
polynomial in the underlying security parameter.
We then optimize this anamorphic extension for a special class of PKE
schemes, which encompasses the classic ElGamal [16] and Cramer-Shoup [14]
schemes.
Theorem (informal). Σ2 (Construction 2) provides a secure and robust (Def-
initions 5 and 6) synchronized anamorphic mode for any SRR PKE scheme
(Deﬁnition 7) for transmitting at most τ covert messages (Lemmas 1 and 2),
for any τ with log τ polynomial in the underlying security parameter.
We then proceed by optimizing the anamorphic extension even further for
such special PKE schemes, resulting in a robustly anamorphic PKE scheme that
does not require the sender and the receiver to be synchronized, at the cost of
reducing the number of covert messages that can be transmitted overall.
Theorem (informal). Σ3 (Construction 3) provides a correct, secure, and
robust (Deﬁnitions 4 5 and 6) unsynchronized anamorphic mode for any SRR
PKE scheme (Deﬁnition 7) for transmitting στ covert messages (Lemmas 6,7
and 8), for any σ and τ polynomial in the underlying security parameter.
Finally, we provide a means to transform an anamorphic PKE scheme that is
not robust into one which is. We apply this approach to the OAEP scheme from
[9], hence showing that also RSA-OAEP can be used in a robustly anamorphic
mode.
Theorem (informal). Σ4 (Construction 3) provides a secure and robust (Def-
initions 5 and 6) synchronized anamorphic mode for any (non-robust) anamor-
phic PKE scheme (Lemma 9).

Anamorphic Encryption, Revisited
17
Σ1 (sync.)
Σ2 (sync.)
Σ3 (unsync.)
Σ4 (sync.)
w/o P.C.
w/ P.C.
w/o P.C.
w/ P.C.
aGen
1
1
≤
1
≤
1
aEnc
1
1
1
≈τ
≈τ
1
(sk)aDec
≤
≤
1
≤σ
≤σ
1
Fig. 5. Comparison of the runtime complexities for the introduced constructions, in
terms of required iterations. P.C. stands for pre-computation. Note that for Σ3, the
approximated runtime complexity of aEnc is taken in expectation, since the algorithm
is randomized.
In Fig. 5, we summarize the runtime complexities of each construction. Note
that for each of them, the size ℓof the covert message space must be polynomial
in the underlying security parameter, since (sk)aDec (or aGen, in case of pre-
computation) have runtime complexity ≤ℓ.4 Moreover, note that the further
limitation on the number of transmissible covert messages for Σ3 is due to the
runtime complexity of aEnc.
4.2
Σ1: A Synchronized Solution for Any PKE Scheme
Our ﬁrst solution allows to embed covert messages in ciphertext of any PKE
which is at a minimum randomized and IND-CPA secure. The idea is quite
simple: Assuming sender and receiver can be synchronized by keeping a matching
counter ctr, whenever the sender wants to embed a covert message ˆm from some
small space
ˆ
M into an encryption of a normal message m, it will ﬁrst compute
r := F(K, (ctr, ˆm)), where F is a PRF and K is a key that the two parties
agreed upon in advance as part of their double key dk, and then it will generate
the ciphertext c := Enc(pk, m; r). Now, since we are assuming that the receiver
knows the exact value ctr that was used by the sender, it will be able to retrieve
ˆm simply by ﬁrst normally decrypting c into m := Dec(sk, c), and then trial-re-
encrypt m as c′ := Enc(pk, m; F(K, (ctr, ˆm′))) for every ˆm′ ∈
ˆ
M, until c′ = c.
At that point, the receiver will know that the successful covert message ˆm′ for
which equality holds was indeed the one meant by the sender, or at least with
good enough probability. Note that for this to work, the receiver also needs to
additionally provide its secret key sk upon anamorphic decryption, and for this
reason we denote this algorithm slightly diﬀerently as skaDec. We next formalize
this construction, and then formally prove these two properties.
Construction 1. Let Π = (Gen, Enc, Dec) be an arbitrary PKE scheme with
randomness space R and ρ .= |R|. For covert message space
ˆ
M, with ℓ.= | ˆ
M|,
and F a function K × ([τ] ×
ˆ
M) →R, let the anamorphic extension Σ1
.=
(aGen, aEnc, skaDec) with anamorphic parameters ap = (K, τ, F) be deﬁned as in
Fig. 6. Note that Σ1 trivially satisﬁes perfect correctness.
4 In case of pre-computation, this is true also for the space complexity of aDec.

18
F. Banﬁet al.
aGen(sk, pk):
01 K
$←K
02 dk := (K, pk)
03 return dk
aEnc(dk, m, ˆm; ctr):
04 r := F(K, (ctr, ˆm))
05 r := ˆm ⊕F(K, ctr)
06 c := Enc(pk, m; r)
07 return (c; ctr + 1)
skaDec(sk, dk, c; ctr):
01 m := Dec(sk, c)
02 foreach ˆm ∈ˆ
M do
03
r := F(K, (ctr, ˆm))
04
r := ˆm ⊕F(K, ctr)
05
c := Enc(pk, m; r )
06
if c = c then
07
return ( ˆm; ctr + 1)
08 return ⊥
Fig. 6. Synchronized robustly anamorphic extensions
Σ1 = (aGen, aEnc, skaDec)
from
Construction
1
for
any
PKE
scheme
Π
=
(Gen, Enc, Dec)
and
Σ′
1 = (aGen, aEnc, skaDec)
for
PKE
schemes
Π
=
(Gen, Enc, Dec)
where
the
randomness space is a group ⟨R, ⊕⟩.
Security of Σ1. To see that the scheme is indeed secure, note that we can
replace F(K, ·) by a truly random function f. Therefore, since the counters are
assumed not to repeat, r will always be uniformly distributed, hence c will be
indistinguishable from a regular ciphertext output by Enc.
Lemma 1. Let Σ1 be the anamorphic extension from Construction 1 for an
arbitrary PKE scheme Π. There exists an eﬃcient transformation of any sec
distinguisher D into a prf distinguisher D′ with q(D′) = q(D) ≤τ such that
Advsec
Π,Σ1(D) = Advprf
F (D′).
Robustness of Σ1. To see that the scheme is indeed robust, further observe
that when using regular encryption and sampling a uniformly random r, the
chance that for a ﬁxed counter ctr there exists a covert message ˆm such that
r = f((ctr, ˆm)), for a uniformly random function f, is 1/ρ. Note that this
probability is negligible if R has exponential size, and such a collision can happen
for each of A’s queries, and for each ˆm.
Lemma 2. Let Σ1 be the anamorphic extension from Construction 1 for an
arbitrary PKE scheme Π. There exists an eﬃcient transformation of any rob
distinguisher D into a prf distinguisher D′ with q .= q(D′) = q(D) ≤τ such that
Advrob
Π,Σ1(D) ≤Advprf
F (D′) + qℓ
ρ .
Σ′
1: Assuming the Randomness Space is a Group. If the PKE scheme Π
is such that the randomness space R used by Enc forms a group under some

Anamorphic Encryption, Revisited
19
operation ⊕, then it is possible to slightly modify the construction Σ1 into Σ′
1
as outlined in Fig. 6. This would require F to be a function K × [τ] →R, and
ˆ
M ⊆R. The advantage would be that computing F would be faster since the
input is smaller, but the constraint would be that covert messages must now ﬁt
into the randomness space. In our next construction, we will indeed make this
assumptions, hence the proof of security of Σ′
1 follows directly from Lemma 3.
4.3
Σ2: A Better Synchronized Solution for Special PKE Schemes
We next present a construction that unlike the previous one does not require
the receiver of an anamorphic ciphertext to know the secret key of the original
receiver. This has a major advantage: It is possible for a sender to embed a
covert message addressed to a party diﬀerent than the original receiver of the
ciphertext! To achieve this property, we require a special type of PKE. Ideally,
as we will later see in Sect. 4.5, a scheme that allows to recover the randomness
used to generate the ciphertext, naturally lends itself to an anamorphic mode
(even though, in this case we would again require the receiver to know the original
secret key). Still, as we will next show, it is possible for some scheme to selectively
recover the randomness used to generate a ciphertext. More precisely, we will
use the fact that if a part of the ciphertext depends only on the randomness
(and neither on the public key, nor on the message), then if we only use a subset
of the randomness space, we can test whether a certain value r was used as
randomness. We next formalize the required property on such a PKE scheme,
and then outline the whole idea in more detail.
Deﬁnition 7. A PKE scheme Π = (Gen, Enc, Dec) is selectively-randomness-
recoverable (SRR) if the following three conditions hold:
1. The randomness space R of Enc forms a group under some operation ⊕.
2. For any public key pk, message m, and randomness r ∈R, there exists eﬃ-
ciently computable injective functions α and β such that for the ciphertext
c := Enc(pk, m; r)5,
c = (α(pk, m, r), β(r)).
3. There exists an eﬃciently computable function γ such that, for any a, b ∈R,
γ(β(a ⊕b), b) = β(a).
Consider now a PKE scheme Π that is SRR. Then, in order to embed
a covert message ˆm into a ciphertext for a normal message m, the sender
simply xors ˆm with a one-time pad t := F(K, ctr), and uses r := ˆm ⊕t
as randomness to generate c := Enc(pk, m; r). By virtue of Π being SRR,
it then holds that c = (α(pk, m, r), β(r))), where β(r) = β( ˆm ⊕F(K, ctr)),
and therefore the receiver can recover ˆm knowing K and ctr, since γ(β( ˆm ⊕
5 In practice, the ciphertext might be a bit string, in which case we would instead
have c = α(pk, m, r)∥β(r). Moreover, note that order does not matter, so we could
also have c = (β(r), α(pk, m, r)).

20
F. Banﬁet al.
F(K, ctr)), F(K, ctr)) = β( ˆm). More precisely, on input a ciphertext (c1, c2),
it ﬁrst computes s := γ(c2, F(K, ctr)), which equals β( ˆm), and then tries all
values ˆm′ ∈
ˆ
M until β( ˆm′) = s. At that point, the receiver will know that the
successful covert message ˆm′ for which equality holds was indeed the one meant
by the sender, or at least with good enough probability. We next formalize this
construction, and then formally prove these two properties.
Construction 2. Let Π = (Gen, Enc, Dec) be an SRR PKE scheme with ran-
domness space R and ρ
.= |R|. For covert message space
ˆ
M ⊆R, with
ℓ
.= | ˆ
M|, and F a function K × [τ] →R, let the anamorphic extension
Σ2 .= (aGen, aEnc, aDec) with anamorphic parameters ap = (K, τ, F) be deﬁned
as in Fig. 7. Note that Σ2 trivially satisﬁes perfect correctness.
aGen(sk, pk):
01 K
$←K
02 dk := (K, pk)
03 return dk
aEnc(dk, m, ˆm; ctr):
01 t := F(K, ctr)
02 r := ˆm ⊕t
03 c := Enc(pk, m; r)
04 return (c; ctr + 1)
aDec(dk, (c1, c2); ctr):
01 t := F(K, ctr)
02 s := γ(c2, t)
03 foreach ˆm ∈ˆ
M do
04
if β( ˆm) = s then
05
return ( ˆm; ctr + 1)
06 return ⊥
Fig. 7. Synchronized robustly anamorphic extension Σ2 = (aGen, aEnc, aDec) for SRR
PKE scheme Π = (Gen, Enc, Dec).
Security of Σ2. To see that the scheme is indeed secure, note that we can
replace F(K, ·) by a truly random function f. Therefore, since the counters are
assumed not to repeat, t = f(ctr) will always be uniformly distributed. This will
be true for r = ˆm⊕t as well, since R is a group, hence c will be indistinguishable
from a regular ciphertext output by Enc.
Lemma 3. Let Σ2 be the anamorphic extension from Construction 2 for an SRR
PKE scheme Π satisfying Deﬁnition 7. There exists an eﬃcient transformation
of any sec distinguisher D into a prf distinguisher D′ with q(D′) = q(D) ≤τ
such that
Advsec
Π,Σ2(D) = Advprf
F (D′).
Robustness of Σ2. To see that the scheme is indeed robust, further observe
that when using regular encryption and sampling a uniformly random r, the
chance that for a ﬁxed counter ctr there exists a covert message ˆm such that
β( ˆm) = γ(β(r), f(ctr)), for a uniformly random function f, is the same as the
chance that r = ˆm⊕f(ctr), which is 1/ρ. Note that this probability is negligible
if R has exponential size, and such a collision can happen for each of A’s queries,
and for each ˆm.

Anamorphic Encryption, Revisited
21
Lemma 4. Let Σ2 be the anamorphic extension from Construction 2 for an SRR
PKE scheme Π satisfying Deﬁnition 7. There exists an eﬃcient transformation
of any rob distinguisher D into a prf distinguisher D′ with q .= q(D′) = q(D) ≤τ
such that
Advrob
Π,Σ2(D) ≤Advprf
F (D′) + qℓ
ρ .
Σ′
2: Optimizing Σ2 with Pre-computation. Note that the time complexity
of aDec from Σ2 is still comparable to that of skaDec from Σ1. Still, for Σ2 it
is possible to perform a signiﬁcant optimization that cannot be applied to Σ1.
Since the only check done inside the for loop is β( ˆm) = s, it is possible to pre-
compute the inverse mapping β−1 in form of a look-up table T. More precisely,
aGen will insert value ˆm under key β( ˆm) in T, and include T in the double key.
Then, upon anamorphic decryption, the for loop can be substituted by a simple
look-up operation in T. The resulting scheme Σ′
2 is formalized in Fig. 8, and it
inherits both security and robustness of Σ2 from Lemmas 3 and 4.
aGen(sk, pk):
01 K
$←K
02 T := [ ]
03 foreach ˆm ∈ˆ
M do
04
T[β( ˆm)] := ˆm
05 dk := (K, T, pk)
06 return dk
aEnc(dk, m, ˆm; ctr):
01 t := F(K, ctr)
02 r := ˆm ⊕t
03 c := Enc(pk, m; r)
04 return (c; ctr + 1)
aDec(dk, (c1, c2); ctr):
01 t := F(K, ctr)
02 s := γ(c2, t)
03 ˆm := T[s]
04 return ( ˆm; ctr + 1)
Fig. 8. Synchronized robustly anamorphic extension Σ′
2 = (aGen, aEnc, aDec) with pre-
computation for SRR PKE scheme Π = (Gen, Enc, Dec).
4.4
Σ3: An Unsynchronized Solution for Special PKE Schemes
We now show how to take advantage of the SRR property from Deﬁnition 7
even further, and develop a simple technique yielding an anamorphic extension
for any SRR PKE that does away with the requirement of sender and receiver
to keep synchronized (on the counters). The gist of it is to create anamorphic
ciphertexts so that the receiver can (partially) extract the counters from it. Recall
the scheme from Fig. 8: Upon anamorphic encryption, we generate the (one-time)
pad F(K, ctr), set the randomness as r := ˆm⊕F(K, ctr), where ˆm is the covert
message, and then (deterministically) obtain the ciphertext c as Enc(pk, m; r).
Since the PKE scheme Π is SRR, recall that c = (α(pk, m, r), β(r)). The main
idea is now to carefully select a counter ctr, such that it is possible to actually
recover ctr itself from β(r) = β( ˆm ⊕F(K, ctr)). To achieve this, one could use
an eﬃciently computable function δ, and repeatedly try fresh values for r, until
δ(β(r)) = ctr.

22
F. Banﬁet al.
aGen(sk, pk):
01 K
$←K
02 T := [ ]
03 foreach ˆm ∈ˆ
M do
04
T[β( ˆm)] := ˆm
05 dk := (K, T, pk)
06 return dk
aEnc(dk, m, ˆm; (x, y)):
01 repeat
02
(x, y) := ILσ,τ(x, y)
03
t := F(K, (x, y))
04
r := ˆm ⊕t
05 until δ(β(r)) = y
06 c := Enc(pk, m; r)
07 return (c; (x, y))
aDec(dk, (c1, c2)):
01 y := δ(c2)
02 foreach x ∈[σ] do
03
t := F(K, (x, y))
04
s := γ(c2, t)
05
ˆm := T[s]
06
if ˆm = ⊥then
07
return ˆm
08 return ⊥
Fig. 9. Stateful unsynchronized robustly anamorphic extension Σ3 = (aGen, aEnc,
aDec) with pre-computation for SRR PKE scheme Π = (Gen, Enc, Dec).
But this approach has a severe limitation: Roughly speaking, on average
one value r will correspond to one value ctr, so in the worst case it might be
possible not to ﬁnd a pair (r, ctr) such that δ(β(r)) = ctr, which would imply
that ˆm cannot be anamorphically encrypted! Therefore, we need to “split” the
state into st = (x, y), for x ∈[σ] and y ∈[τ], for some σ, τ deﬁned as part of the
anamorphic parameters ap. We can now concretely require δ to be a Im(β) →[τ]
function, and look for a pair (x, y) such that δ(β( ˆm⊕F(K, (x, y)))) = y. In order
to ensure that ﬁnding such a pair does not take too long, we need that δ partitions
R, with ρ .= |R|, as uniformly as possible, that is,
∀y ∈[τ] :
(δ ◦β)−1(y)
 ≥
ρ
τ

.
(1)
Note that (1) implies that for any y ∈[y], ⌊ρ/τ⌋≤|(δ ◦β)−1(y)
 ≤⌈ρ/τ⌉, and
therefore also ρ/τ −1 ≤|(δ ◦β)−1(y)
 ≤ρ/τ + 1.
To anamorphically decrypt, we ﬁrst get y := δ(c2) = δ(β(r)), and then we
look for the ﬁrst x such that there exists an ˆm for which γ(c2, F(K, (x, y))) =
β( ˆm). Since as for Σ2 it is possible to pre-compute the inverse of β, we directly
deﬁne this construction by employing a look-up table T mapping β( ˆm) to ˆm.
Recall that, for t := F(K, (x, y)), correctness then follows by:
ˆm = T[s] = β−1(s) = β−1(γ(c2, t)) = β−1(γ(β(r), t))
= β−1(γ(β( ˆm ⊕t), t)) = β−1(β( ˆm)) = ˆm.
Note that the main advantage is that now the receiver does not need to know
the counter to decrypt anamorphically, therefore sender and receiver need not
be synchronized. Still, a drawback of this approach is that now it is possible for
anamorphic decryption to return the wrong covert message. This means, that
this construction cannot achieve perfect correctness. Nevertheless, we will show
that it achieves computational correctness, by providing a bound that makes
explicit how parameters should be set. Looking ahead, Lemma 6 essentially says

Anamorphic Encryption, Revisited
23
that one should choose the size σ of the domain of the counter part x not to be
too large.
We ﬁrst present a stateful version of this construction, that is, one where the
sender keeps updating the state (x, y) by increasing it lexicographically for each
try. More precisely, given the a state (x, y), we update it to (x, y + 1) if y < τ,
to (x + 1, 1) if y = τ and x < σ, and (1, 1) otherwise. We denote this operation
by (x, y) := ILσ,τ(x, y). This stateful approach allows for an easier analysis; we
then slightly modify it into a stateless construction.
Construction 3. Let Π = (Gen, Enc, Dec) be an SRR PKE scheme with ran-
domness space R and ρ .= |R|, and function β as for Deﬁnition 7. For covert
message space
ˆ
M ⊆R, with ℓ.= | ˆ
M|, F a function K × ([σ] × [τ]) →R,
and δ a function Im(β) →[τ] satisfying (1), let the anamorphic extension
Σ3
.= (aGen, aEnc, aDec) with anamorphic parameters ap = (K, δ, σ, τ, F) be
deﬁned as in Fig. 9.
Eﬃciency of Σ3. Since anamorphic encryption aEnc of Σ3 needs to iterate an
undeﬁned number of times, we need to know an estimate of its running time in
order to deem it practical, or just to be sure the algorithm indeed terminates. To
do so, we make the simplifying assumption that the PRF F is replaced by a truly
random function f. Then, since each pair (x, y) input to f is never repeated, we
can assume r to be freshly and uniformly distributed in each iteration.
Lemma 5. Let T be the random variable denoting the number of iterations per-
formed by aEnc, and assume r is uniformly distributed over R in each iteration.
Then, E[T] ≤(ρ+τ)ρτ
(ρ−τ)2 .
Note that for τ ≪ρ, we have E[T] ≈τ. Moreover, in case τ divides ρ, then
condition (1) can be replaced by
(δ ◦β)−1(y)
 = τ/ρ, resulting in E[T] = τ.
Correctness of Σ3. To see that the scheme indeed satisﬁes computational
correctness, suppose a covert message ˆm is anamorphically encrypted with a
normal message m resulting in ciphertext c = (c1, c2) with c2 = β(r) =
β( ˆm ⊕F(K, (x, y))), for some x ∈[σ] and y ∈[τ]. Then anamorphic decryp-
tion of c might give the wrong output in case a ˆm′ ̸= ˆm and an x′ ̸= x exist,
such that ˆm′ = T[s], that is, β( ˆm′) = s = γ(β( ˆm ⊕F(K, (x, y))), F(K, (x′, y))).
Now, by the deﬁnition of γ, we have that this is the case if and only if
ˆm ⊕F(K, (x, y)) = ˆm′ ⊕F(K, (x′, y)), which has probability σℓ/ρ of happen-
ing.
Lemma 6. Let Σ3 be the anamorphic extension from Construction 3 for an SRR
PKE scheme Π satisfying Deﬁnition 7. There exists an eﬃcient transformation
of any cor distinguisher D into a prf distinguisher D′ with q .= q(D′) = q(D) ≤
στ such that
Advcor
Π,Σ3(D) ≤Advprf
F (D′) + qσℓ
ρ .

24
F. Banﬁet al.
aGen(sk, pk):
01 K
$←K
02 T := [ ]
03 foreach ˆm ∈ˆ
M do
04
T[β( ˆm)] := ˆm
05 dk := (K, T, pk)
06 return dk
aEnc(dk, m, ˆm):
01 repeat
02
x
$←[σ]
03
y
$←[τ]
04
t := F(K, (x, y))
05
r := ˆm ⊕t
06 until δ(β(r)) = y
07 c := Enc(pk, m; r)
08 return c
aDec(dk, (c1, c2)):
01 y := δ(c2)
02 foreach x ∈[σ] do
03
t := F(K, (x, y))
04
s := γ(c2, t)
05
ˆm := T[s]
06
if ˆm = ⊥then
07
return ˆm
08 return ⊥
Fig. 10. Unsynchronized robustly anamorphic extension Σ′
3 = (aGen, aEnc, aDec) with
pre-computation for SRR PKE scheme Π = (Gen, Enc, Dec).
Security of Σ3. To see that the scheme is indeed secure, note that we can replace
F(K, ·) by a truly random function f. Therefore, since the state pairs (x, , y) are
assumed not to repeat, t = f((x, y)) will always be uniformly distributed. This
will be true for r = ˆm⊕t as well, since R is a group. Once δ(β(r)) = y is satisﬁed,
r will still be freshly and uniformly distributed, hence c will be indistinguishable
from a regular ciphertext output by Enc.
Lemma 7. Let Σ3 be the anamorphic extension from Construction 3 for an SRR
PKE scheme Π satisfying Deﬁnition 7. There exists an eﬃcient transformation
of any sec distinguisher D into a prf distinguisher D′ with q(D′) = q(D) ≤στ
such that
Advsec
Π,Σ3(D) = Advprf
F (D′).
Robustness of Σ3. To see that the scheme is indeed robust, further observe
that when using regular encryption and sampling a uniformly random r, the
chance that for a ﬁxed counter ctr there exists a covert message ˆm such that
β( ˆm) = γ(β(r), f(ctr)), for a uniformly random function f, is the same as the
chance that r = ˆm⊕f(ctr), which is 1/ρ. Note that this probability is negligible
if R has exponential size, and such a collision can happen for each of A’s queries,
for each x ∈[σ], and for each ˆm.
Lemma 8. Let Σ3 be the anamorphic extension from Construction 3 for an SRR
PKE scheme Π satisfying Deﬁnition 7. There exists an eﬃcient transformation
of any rob distinguisher D into a prf distinguisher D′ with q .= q(D′) = q(D) ≤
στ such that
Advrob
Π,Σ3(D) ≤Advprf
F (D′) + qσℓ
ρ .
Σ′
3: Optimizing Σ3 with Stateful Anamorphic Encryption. As mentioned
above, we can easily modify the stateful anamorphic extension Σ3 into a state-
less anamorphic extension Σ′
3, as deﬁned in Fig. 10. The idea is simply to pick

Anamorphic Encryption, Revisited
25
uniformly random values x ∈[σ] and y ∈[τ] in each iteration, rather than
lexicographically increasing the state pair (x, y). Then, by the birthday prob-
lem we have that, the correctness, security, and robustness bounds degrade by
approximately an additive term q2/στ.
4.5
Σ4: Making Robust Any (Non-Robust) Anamorphic Extension
In this section we present a very simple generic transformation that given a non-
robust anamorphic encryption scheme, yields one that is additionally robust. We
then show in Sect. 5.3 how to concretely apply this transformation to the Optimal
Asymmetric Encryption Padding (OAEP) technique transforming any trapdoor
permutation into a secure PKE scheme from [9]. Keeping in mind the original
goal of [26], that is to ﬁnd anamorphic modes of well-established schemes, the
latter implies that the widely employed RSA-OAEP indeed admits an robustly
anamorphic mode, as we will concretely show in Sect. 5.3.
Our construction will be for stateful anamorphic extensions, and in order
to achieve reasonable guarantees it requires that the covert message space of
the base anamorphic extension be the randomness space of the underlying PKE
scheme. For this reason, the rejection sampling technique from [26] seems not to
be suitable, since it is eﬃcient only when transmitting at most logarithmically
many covert bits in the security parameter.
Construction 4. Let Π be a PKE scheme with randomness space R, with
ρ .= |R|, let Σ = (aGen, aEnc, aDec) be a (non-robust) stateful anamorphic exten-
sion for Π with covert message space R. For covert message space
ˆ
M ⊆R, with
ℓ.= | ˆ
M| < ρ, deﬁne the stateful anamorphic extension Σ4 .= (aGen, aEnc, aDec′),
where on input a double key dk, a ciphertext c, and a state st, aDec′ ﬁrst com-
putes ( ˆm, st′) := aDec(dk, c; st), and then outputs ( ˆm, st′) if ˆm ∈
ˆ
M′, and ⊥
otherwise.
Note that Σ4 trivially satisﬁes perfect correctness. Moreover, note that the
security of Σ4 is trivially inherited by the security of the underlying anamor-
phic extension Σ. Regarding robustness, it is also easy to see that there is an
acceptable degradation if ℓis small (that is, ℓ≪ρ). We state the following
lemma without proof (the intuition is that once we substitute the ciphertext c
by a random string in Grob-0
Π,Σ4, due to ind$-cpa, we then have a chance ℓ
ρ for each
query to provoke the bad event that ˆm ̸= ⊥, which makes distinguishing Grob-1
Π,Σ4
trivial).
Lemma 9. Let Σ4 be the anamorphic extension from Construction 4 for a PKE
scheme Π with (non-robust) anamorphic extension Σ. There exists an eﬃcient
transformation of any rob distinguisher D into a prf distinguisher D′ with q .=
q(D′) = q(D) such that
Advrob
Π,Σ4(D) ≤Advind$-cpa
Π,Σ
(D′) + qℓ
ρ .

26
F. Banﬁet al.
5
Concrete Instantiations of the Generic Constructions
In this section we show concrete instantiations of our generic constructions Σ2
(and the related Σ′
2), Σ3 (and the related Σ′
3), and Σ4 from Sect. 4 for well-
established PKE schemes, thus showing practical anamorphic modes are indeed
possible. All proofs are deferred to the full version [4].
5.1
Instantiations of Σ2: ElGamal and Cramer-Shoup
Synchronized Robustly Anamorphic ElGamal. We now show that the
classic ElGamal PKE scheme admits an anamorphic extension since it is SRR.
First, let recall the conventional speciﬁcation of the ElGamal PKE scheme [16].
aGen(sk, pk):
01 K
$←K
02 T := [ ]
03 foreach ˆm ∈ˆ
M do
04
T[g ˆ
m] := ˆm
05 dk := (K, T, pk)
06 return dk
aEnc(dk, m, ˆm; ctr):
01 t := F(K, ctr)
02 r := ˆm ⊕t
03 c1 := m · pk r
04 c2 := gr
05 c := (c1, c2)
06 return (c; ctr + 1)
aDec(dk, (c1, c2); ctr):
01 t := F(K, ctr)
02 s := c2 · g−t
03 ˆm := T[s]
04 return ( ˆm; ctr + 1)
Fig. 11.
Synchronized
robustly
anamorphic
extension
SyncAnamElGamal
.=
(aGen, aEnc, aDec) with pre-computation for the SRR PKE scheme ElGamal.
Construction 5. Let G be a cyclic group of prime order q with generator g,
and let the public parameter be pp = (G, q, g). Then the ElGamal PKE scheme
is deﬁned as the tuple ElGamal = (Gen, Enc, Dec), where:
– Gen: sample sk
$←Zq, set pk := gsk, and output the key-pair (sk, pk).6
– Enc: on input a public key pk and a message m ∈G, sample r
$←Zq, set
c1 := m · pk r, c2 := gr, and output the ciphertext (c1, c2).
– Dec: on input a secret key sk and a ciphertext (c1, c2), output c1 · c−sk
2
.
Lemma 10. The ElGamal PKE scheme is SRR.
Putting things together, for completeness we ﬁnally describe the resulting
synchronized anamorphic extension SyncAnamElGamal for ElGamal with pre-
computation.
Construction 6. For covert message space
ˆ
M ⊆Zq, with ℓ.= | ˆ
M|, and F
a function K × [τ] →Zq, let the anamorphic extension SyncAnamElGamal .=
(aGen, aEnc, aDec) for the ElGamal PKE scheme from Construction 5 with
anamorphic parameters ap = (K, τ, F) be deﬁned as in Fig. 11.
6 Recall that, even if we did not explicitate it here, we assume that pp can be obtained
from both sk and pk.

Anamorphic Encryption, Revisited
27
Synchronized Robustly Anamorphic Cramer-Shoup. We now show that
also the classic Cramer-Shoup PKE scheme admits an anamorphic extension
since it is SRR as well. First, let recall the conventional speciﬁcation of the
Cramer-Shoup PKE scheme [14]. Note that in the following deﬁnition, we tailor
the syntactic description to exactly match our notion of SRR PKE.
Construction 7. Let G be a cyclic group of prime order q with generators g1
and g2, let H : G3 →Zq be a hash function, and let the public parameter be
pp = (G, q, g1, g2, H). Then the Cramer-Shoup PKE scheme is deﬁned as the
tuple CramerShoup = (Gen, Enc, Dec), where:
– Gen: sample x1, x2, y1, y2, z
$←Zq, set c := gx1
1 gx2
2 , d := gy1
1 gy2
2 , e := gz
1,
sk := (x1, x2, y1, y2, z), pk := (c, d, e) and output the key-pair (sk, pk).
– Enc: on input a public key pk = (c, d, e) and a message m ∈G, sample
r
$←Zq, set u1 := gr
1, u2 := gr
2, v := m · er, h := H(u1, u2, v), w := crdrh,
and output the ciphertext c := ((v, w), (u1, u2)).
– Dec: on input a secret key sk and a ciphertext ((v, w), (u1, u2)), compute
h := H(u1, u2, v), and if ux1+y1h
1
ux2+y2h
2
= w, then output v · u−z
1 ; otherwise,
output the special symbol ⊥.
Lemma 11. The CramerShoup PKE scheme is SRR.
Putting things together, for completeness we ﬁnally describe the resulting
synchronized anamorphic extension SyncAnamCramerShoup for CramerShoup.
Construction 8. For covert message space
ˆ
M ⊆Zq, with ℓ.= | ˆ
M|, and F a
function K × [τ] →Zq, let the anamorphic extension SyncAnamCramerShoup .=
(aGen, aEnc, aDec) for the CramerShoup PKE scheme from Construction 5 with
anamorphic parameters ap = (K, τ, F) be deﬁned as in Fig. 12.
aGen((c, d, e)):
01 K
$←K
02 T := [ ]
03 foreach ˆm ∈ˆ
M do
04
T[(g ˆ
m
1 , g ˆ
m
2 )] := ˆm
05 dk := (K, T, (c, d, e))
06 return dk
aEnc(dk, m, ˆm; ctr):
01 t := F(K, ctr)
02 r := ˆm ⊕t
03 u1 := gr
1
04 u2 := gr
2
05 v := m · er
06 h := H(u1, u2, v)
07 w := crdrh
08 c := ((v, w), (u1, u2))
09 return (c; ctr + 1)
aDec(dk, (c1, (c2,1, c2,2)); ctr):
01 t := F(K, ctr)
02 s := (c2,1 · g−t
1 , c2,2 · g−t
2 )
03 ˆm := T[s]
04 return ( ˆm; ctr + 1)
Fig. 12. Synchronized robustly anamorphic extension SyncAnamCramerShoup
.=
(aGen, aEnc, aDec) with pre-computation for the SRR PKE scheme CramerShoup.

28
F. Banﬁet al.
5.2
Instantiations of Σ3: ElGamal and Cramer-Shoup
Unsynchronized Robustly Anamorphic ElGamal. We now show how to
obtain an even better anamorphic extension for ElGamal by deﬁning a simple
function δ satisfying (1). For this, we need to instantiate the underlying group
G. Concretely, consider the case of G = Z∗
p, for p prime, with order q = p −1,
and let δ(x) .= Rτ(x) + 1 ∈[τ], where Rτ(·) denotes the remainder modulo τ.
Lemma 12. For p prime, g a generator of Z∗
p, q .= p −1, τ ≤q, and y ∈[τ]:
|{r ∈Zq | Rτ(gr) + 1 = y}| ≥
 q
τ

.
Putting things together, for completeness we ﬁnally describe the resulting
stateless unsynchronized anamorphic extension AnamElGamal for ElGamal with
pre-computation.
Construction 9. For covert messages set
ˆ
M ⊆Zq, with ℓ.= | ˆ
M|, and F a
function K × ([σ] × [τ]) →Zq, let the anamorphic extension AnamElGamal .=
(aGen, aEnc, aDec) for the ElGamal PKE scheme from Construction 5 with
anamorphic parameters ap = (K, Rτ, σ, τ, F) be deﬁned as in Fig. 13.
In the full version [4] we provide a test implementation of AnamElGamal. Note
that it is possible to similarly show that ElGamal instantiated over an elliptic
curve, such as Curve25519, also admits a robust anamorphic extension. More
concretely, with G a subgroup of E/Fp of prime order q ≈p/8, for p = 2255 −19,
we can deﬁne δ as in Lemma 12, and apply it to the x coordinate of the points.
aGen(sk, pk):
01 K
$←K
02 T := [ ]
03 foreach ˆm ∈ˆ
M do
04
T[g ˆ
m] := ˆm
05 dk := (K, T, pk)
06 return dk
aEnc(dk, m, ˆm):
01 repeat
02
x
$←[σ]
03
y
$←[τ]
04
t := F(K, (x, y))
05
r := ˆm ⊕t
06 until Rτ(gr) = y
07 c1 := m · pk r
08 c2 := gr
09 c := (c1, c2)
10 return c
aDec(dk, (c1, c2)):
01 y := Rτ(c2)
02 foreach x ∈[σ] do
03
t := F(K, (x, y))
04
s := c2 · g−t
05
ˆm := T[s]
06
if ˆm = ⊥then
07
return ˆm
08 return ⊥
Fig. 13. Synchronized robustly anamorphic extension AnamElGamal .= (aGen, aEnc,
aDec) with pre-computation for the SRR PKE scheme ElGamal.

Anamorphic Encryption, Revisited
29
Unsynchronized Robustly Anamorphic Cramer-Shoup. We now show
how to obtain an even better anamorphic extension also for Cramer-Shoup by
deﬁning a simple function δ satisfying (1). For this, we need to again instantiate
the underlying group G as G = Z∗
p. With δ((x, y)) .= Rτ(x) + 1, we can then
reuse Lemma 12. Putting things together, for completeness we ﬁnally describe
the resulting stateless unsynchronized anamorphic extension AnamCramerShoup
for CramerShoup with pre-computation. Note that we also slightly deviate from
the speciﬁcation of Fig. 10 by only using the ﬁrst of the two group elements in
β( ˆm) as index to the look-up table T.
Construction 10. For covert messages set
ˆ
M ⊆Zq, with ℓ.= | ˆ
M|, and F a
function K×([σ]×[τ]) →Zq, let the anamorphic extension AnamCramerShoup .=
(aGen, aEnc, aDec) for the CramerShoup PKE scheme from Construction 7 with
anamorphic parameters ap = (K, Rτ, σ, τ, F) be deﬁned as in Fig. 14.
5.3
Instantiation of Σ4: RSA-OAEP
We begin by recalling the OAEP technique from [9]. Let f : {0, 1}n →{0, 1}n
be a trapdoor permutation and f −1 its inverse. With l < n, let G : {0, 1}t →
{0, 1}n−l and H : {0, 1}n−l →{0, 1}t be random oracles. We can now construct
an IND-CPA PKE scheme by ﬁrst padding each messages m ∈{0, 1}n−l and
then applying the trapdoor permutation as follows: Choose a uniformly random
value r
$←{0, 1}l, and then output the ciphertext c := f(m ⊕G(r)∥r ⊕H(m ⊕
G(r))). Because of the Feistel-network-like structure of the OAEP, the ciphertext
aGen(sk, pk):
01 K
$←K
02 T := [ ]
03 foreach ˆm ∈ˆ
M do
04
T[g ˆ
m
1 ] := ˆm
05 dk := (K, T, pk)
06 return dk
aEnc(dk, m, ˆm):
01 repeat
02
x
$←[σ]
03
y
$←[τ]
04
t := F(K, (x, y))
05
r := ˆm ⊕t
06 until Rτ(gr
1) = y
07 u1 := gr
1
08 u2 := gr
2
09 v := m · er
10 h := H(u1, u2, v)
11 w := crdrh
12 c := ((v, w), (u1, u2))
13 return c
aDec(dk, (c1, (c2,1, c2,2))):
01 y := Rτ(c2,1)
02 foreach x ∈[σ] do
03
t := F(K, (x, y))
04
s := c2,1 · g−t
1
05
ˆm := T[s]
06
if ˆm = ⊥then
07
return ˆm
08 return ⊥
Fig. 14.
Synchronized
robustly
anamorphic
extension
AnamCramerShoup
.=
(aGen, aEnc, aDec) with pre-computation for the SRR PKE scheme CramerShoup.

30
F. Banﬁet al.
c can then be easily decrypted as follows: First obtain a∥b := f −1(c), and then
recompute the randomness r = b⊕H(a), and ﬁnally output the original plaintext
m = a ⊕G(r).
An interesting property of OAEP, is that it is (fully) randomness recoverable
[24], meaning that given an encryption c of a message m generated using ran-
domness r, from c and the secret key sk alone, it is possible to fully recover r.
This naturally lends itself to a synchronized anamorphic scheme as follows: Just
like in our ﬁrst construction Σ1, use a counter ctr and a PRF F to generate a
one-time pad t := F(K, ctr) ∈{0, 1}l, and set the randomness to r := ˆm ⊕t.
Being randomness recoverable, OAEP then allows to eﬃciently retrieve ˆm simply
by ﬁrst recovering the randomness r, and then computing ˆm := r ⊕F(K, ctr).
Now, by the discussion in Sect. 4.5, we have that this anamorphic extension
for OAEP can be trivially made robust by choosing a small enough l′ < l and
instantiating Σ4 with ˆ
M .= {0, 1}l′. Therefore, when f denotes the RSA trapdoor
permutation f(x) := RN(xe), where N = pq for two primes p, q, and e ∈Zφ(n),
we have that RSA-OAEP indeed admits a robustly anamorphic extension.
References
1. Abdalla, M., Bellare, M., Neven, G.: Robust encryption. In: Micciancio, D. (ed.)
TCC 2010. LNCS, vol. 5978, pp. 480–497. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-11799-2 28
2. Abelson, H., et al.: The risks of key recovery, key escrow, and trusted third-party
encryption (1997)
3. Abelson, H., et al.: Keys under doormats: mandating insecurity by requiring gov-
ernment access to all data and communications. (July 6) 2015. Google Scholar
Google Scholar Digital Library Digital Library (2015)
4. Banﬁ, F., Gegier, K., Hirt, M., Maurer, U., Rito, G.: Anamorphic encryption,
revisited. Cryptology ePrint Arch. Report 2023/249 (2023), https://eprint.iacr.
org/2023/249
5. Bellare, M., Boldyreva, A., Desai, A., Pointcheval, D.: Key-privacy in public-key
encryption. In: Boyd, C. (ed.) ASIACRYPT 2001. LNCS, vol. 2248, pp. 566–582.
Springer, Heidelberg (2001). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-45682-1 33
6. Bellare, M., Desai, A., Jokipii, E., Rogaway, P.: A concrete security treatment of
symmetric encryption. In: 38th FOCS, pp. 394–403. IEEE Computer Society Press.
(1997) https://doi.org/10.1109/SFCS.1997.646128
7. Bellare, M., Kilian, J., Rogaway, P.: The security of cipher block chaining. In:
Desmedt, Y.G. (ed.) CRYPTO 1994. LNCS, vol. 839, pp. 341–358. Springer, Hei-
delberg (1994). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48658-5 32
8. Bellare, M., Paterson, K.G., Rogaway, P.: Security of symmetric encryption against
mass surveillance. In: Garay, J.A., Gennaro, R. (eds.) CRYPTO 2014. LNCS, vol.
8616, pp. 1–19. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-
44371-2 1
9. Bellare, M., Rogaway, P.: Optimal asymmetric encryption. In: De Santis, A. (ed.)
EUROCRYPT 1994. LNCS, vol. 950, pp. 92–111. Springer, Heidelberg (1995).
https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0053428

Anamorphic Encryption, Revisited
31
10. Bellare, M., Rogaway, P.: The security of triple encryption and a framework
for code-based game-playing proofs. In: Vaudenay, S. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2006.
LNCS, vol. 4004, pp. 409–426. Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/10.
1007/11761679 25
11. Blaze, M.: Protocol failure in the escrowed encryption standard. In: Denning, D.E.,
Pyle, R., Ganesan, R., Sandhu, R.S. (eds.) ACM CCS 94, pp. 59–67. ACM Press.
(1994) https://doi.org/10.1145/191177.191193
12. Canetti, R., Dwork, C., Naor, M., Ostrovsky, R.: Deniable encryption. In: Kaliski,
B.S. (ed.) CRYPTO 1997. LNCS, vol. 1294, pp. 90–104. Springer, Heidelberg
(1997). https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0052229
13. Checkoway, S., et al.: On the practical exploitability of dual EC in TLS implemen-
tations. In: Fu, K., Jung, J. (eds.) USENIX Security 2014, pp. 319–335. USENIX
Association (2014)
14. Cramer, R., Shoup, V.: A practical public key cryptosystem provably secure
against adaptive chosen ciphertext attack. In: Krawczyk, H. (ed.) CRYPTO 1998.
LNCS, vol. 1462, pp. 13–25. Springer, Heidelberg (1998). https://doi.org/10.1007/
BFb0055717
15. Dakoﬀ, H.S.: The clipper chip proposal: deciphering the unfounded fears that are
wrongfully derailing its implementation. J. Marshall L. Rev. UIC Law Review
29(2), 475 8 (1996)
16. ElGamal, T.: A public key cryptosystem and a signature scheme based on discrete
logarithms. IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 31(4), 469–472 (1985). https://doi.org/10.
1109/TIT.1985.1057074
17. Frankel, Y., Yung, M.: Escrow encryption systems visited: attacks, analysis and
designs. In: Coppersmith, D. (ed.) CRYPTO 1995. LNCS, vol. 963, pp. 222–235.
Springer, Heidelberg (1995). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44750-4 18
18. Golle, P., Jakobsson, M., Juels, A., Syverson, P.: Universal re-encryption for
mixnets. In: Okamoto, T. (ed.) CT-RSA 2004. LNCS, vol. 2964, pp. 163–178.
Springer, Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-24660-2 14
19. Green, M., Kaptchuk, G., Van Laer, G.: Abuse resistant law enforcement access
systems. In: Canteaut, A., Standaert, F.-X. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2021. LNCS,
vol. 12698, pp. 553–583. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-77883-5 19
20. Horel, T., Park, S., Richelson, S., Vaikuntanathan, V.: How to subvert backdoored
encryption: security against adversaries that decrypt all ciphertexts. In: Blum, A.
(ed.) ITCS 2019, vol. 124, pp. 42:1–42:20. LIPIcs (2019) https://doi.org/10.4230/
LIPIcs.ITCS.2019.42
21. Kohlweiss, M., Maurer, U., Onete, C., Tackmann, B., Venturi, D.: Anonymity-
preserving public-key encryption: a constructive approach. In: De Cristofaro, E.,
Wright, M. (eds.) PETS 2013. LNCS, vol. 7981, pp. 19–39. Springer, Heidelberg
(2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-39077-7 2
22. Kutylowski, M., Persiano, G., Phan, D.H., Yung, M., Zawada, M.: The self-anti-
censorship nature of encryption: on the prevalence of anamorphic cryptography.
PoPETs 2023(4), 170–183 (2023)https://doi.org/10.56553/popets-2023-0104
23. Kutylowski, M., Persiano, G., Phan, D.H., Yung, M., Zawada, M.: Anamorphic
signatures: secrecy from a dictator who only permits authentication! In: CRYPTO
2023, Part II, pp. 759–790. LNCS, Springer, Heidelberg (2023).https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-031-38545-2 25
24. Li, C.K., Wong, D.S.: Signcryption from randomness recoverable public key encryp-
tion. Inf. Sci. 180(4), 549–559 (2010)

32
F. Banﬁet al.
25. Micali, S.: Fair public-key cryptosystems. In: Brickell, E.F. (ed.) CRYPTO 1992.
LNCS, vol. 740, pp. 113–138. Springer, Heidelberg (1993). https://doi.org/10.1007/
3-540-48071-4 9
26. Persiano, G., Phan, D.H., Yung, M.: Anamorphic encryption: private communica-
tion against a dictator. In: Dunkelman, O., Dziembowski, S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT
2022, Part II. LNCS, vol. 13276, pp. 34–63. Springer, Heidelberg (2022)https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-07085-3 2
27. Rivest, R.L., et al.: Chaﬃng and winnowing: conﬁdentiality without encryption.
CryptoBytes (RSA laboratories) 4(1), 12–17 (1998)
28. Russell, A., Tang, Q., Yung, M., Zhou, H.-S.: Cliptography: clipping the power of
kleptographic attacks. In: Cheon, J.H., Takagi, T. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2016. LNCS,
vol. 10032, pp. 34–64. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-662-53890-6 2
29. Russell, A., Tang, Q., Yung, M., Zhou, H.S.: Generic semantic security against a
kleptographic adversary. In: Thuraisingham, B.M., Evans, D., Malkin, T., Xu, D.
(eds.) ACM CCS 2017, pp. 907–922. ACM Press (2017)https://doi.org/10.1145/
3133956.3133993
30. Simmons, G.J.: The prisoners problem and the subliminal channel. In: Chaum, D.
(ed.) CRYPTO’83, pp. 51–67. Plenum Press, New York, USA (1983)
31. von Ahn, L., Hopper, N.J.: Public-key steganography. In: Cachin, C., Camenisch,
J.L. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2004. LNCS, vol. 3027, pp. 323–341. Springer, Heidelberg
(2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-24676-3 20
32. Wang, Y., Chen, R., Huang, X., Yung, M.: Sender-anamorphic encryption refor-
mulated: achieving robust and generic constructions. In: Guo, J., Steinfeld, R.
(eds.) Advances in Cryptology – ASIACRYPT 2023, pp. 135–167. Springer Nature
Singapore, Singapore (2023)https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-99-8736-8 5
33. Young, A., Yung, M.: The dark side of “black-box” cryptography or: should we
trust capstone? In: Koblitz, N. (ed.) CRYPTO 1996. LNCS, vol. 1109, pp. 89–103.
Springer, Heidelberg (1996). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-68697-5 8
34. Young, A., Yung, M.: The prevalence of kleptographic attacks on discrete-log based
cryptosystems. In: Kaliski, B.S. (ed.) CRYPTO 1997. LNCS, vol. 1294, pp. 264–
276. Springer, Heidelberg (1997). https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0052241
35. Young, A., Yung, M.: Auto-recoverable auto-certiﬁable cryptosystems. In: Nyberg,
K. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 1998. LNCS, vol. 1403, pp. 17–31. Springer, Heidelberg
(1998). https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0054114
36. Young, A., Yung, M.: Kleptography from standard assumptions and applications.
In: Garay, J.A., De Prisco, R. (eds.) SCN 2010. LNCS, vol. 6280, pp. 271–290.
Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-15317-4 18
37. Young, A.L., Yung, M.: Semantically secure anonymity: foundations of re-
encryption. In: Catalano, D., De Prisco, R. (eds.) SCN 2018. LNCS, vol. 11035, pp.
255–273. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-98113-0 14

