Asymmetric PAKE with Low
Computation and communication
Bruno Freitas Dos Santos1, Yanqi Gu1, Stanislaw Jarecki1(B),
and Hugo Krawczyk2
1 University of California, Irvine, USA
{brunof,yanqig1,sjarecki}@uci.edu
2 Algorand Foundation, New York, USA
Abstract. In Crypto’21 Gu, Jarecki, and Krawczyk [25] showed an
asymmetric password authenticated key exchange protocol (aPAKE)
whose computational cost matches (symmetric) password authenticated
key exchange (PAKE) and plain (i.e. unauthenticated) key exchange
(KE). However, this minimal-cost aPAKE did not match prior aPAKE’s
in round complexity, using 4 rounds assuming the client initiates com-
pared to 2 rounds in an aPAKE of Bradley et al. [13].
In this paper we show two aPAKE protocols (but not strong aPAKEs
like [13,30]), which achieve optimal computational cost and optimal
round complexity. Our protocols can be seen as variants of the Encrypted
Key Exchange (EKE) compiler of Bellovin and Merritt [7], which cre-
ates password-authenticated key exchange by password-encrypting mes-
sages in a key exchange protocol. Whereas Bellovin and Merritt used
this method to construct a PAKE by applying password-encryption to
KE messages, we construct an aPAKE by password-encrypting messages
of a unilaterally authenticated Key Exchange (ua-KE). We present two
versions of this compiler. The ﬁrst uses salted password hash and takes
2 rounds if the server initiates. The second uses unsalted password hash
and takes a single simultaneous ﬂow, thus simultaneously matching the
minimal computational cost and the minimal round complexity of PAKE
and KE.
We analyze our aPAKE protocols assuming an Ideal Cipher (IC) on a
group, and we analyze them as modular constructions from ua-KE real-
ized via a universally composable Authenticated Key Exchange where
the server uses one-time keys (otk-AKE). We also show that one-pass
variants of 3DH and HMQV securely realize otk-AKE in the ROM. Inter-
estingly, the two resulting concrete aPAKE’s use the exact same protocol
messages as variants of EKE, and the only diﬀerence between the sym-
metric PAKE (EKE) and asymmetric PAKE (our protocols) is in the
key derivation equation.
1
Introduction
Password authenticated key exchange (PAKE) lets two parties establish a secure
shared session key if and only if they hold the same (possibly low-entropy) pass-
word. The asymmetric password authenticated key exchange protocols (aPAKE)
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
O. Dunkelman and S. Dziembowski (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2022, LNCS 13276, pp. 127–156, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-07085-3_5

128
B. F. Dos Santos et al.
is a client-server variant of such protocol where the input to the server party is
a one-way function of the password, a.k.a., a password hash, and the protocol
establishes a shared key iﬀthe client’s input is a preimage of the server’s input.
Both PAKE’s and aPAKE’s have been extensively studied in the crypto lit-
erature, starting from respectively [7] and [29], but recently there has been a
renewed interest in aPAKE’s due to the weaknesses of current password authen-
tication methods and to the ongoing PAKE standardization eﬀort of the Internet
Engineering Task Force [39]. Perhaps the most striking vulnerabilities of the cur-
rent PKI-based “password-over-TLS” authentication practice, where the client
sends its password over a TLS connection to the server, are that it enables
phishing attacks against clients who establish a TLS connection with the wrong
party, and that it discloses password cleartexts on the server, exposing them to
server-side attacks. (To see why the latter might be a problem consider that even
security-conscious companies were known to accidentally store large quantities
of plaintext passwords [1,2]).
The recent work of Gu, Jarecki, and Krawczyk [25] considered minimal-cost
aPAKE’s, and they showed an aPAKE protocol KHAPE which nearly matches
the computational cost of unauthenticated key exchange (KE), namely Diﬃe-
Hellman (uDH), which is 1fb+1vb exp per party (i.e., 1 ﬁxed-base and 1 variable-
base exponentiation). The KE cost is a lower-bound for both PAKE and aPAKE
because aPAKE ⇒PAKE ⇒KE. However, the minimal-cost aPAKE proto-
col of [25] is not close to KE in round complexity. Indeed, the aPAKE of [25]
takes 3 rounds assuming the server initiates the protocol, while uDH takes a
single simultaneous ﬂow, where each party sends a single protocol message with-
out waiting for the counterparty. Note that this minimal round complexity is
achieved by minimal-cost universally composable (UC) PAKE’s, including EKE
[6,7,37], SPAKE2 [3,4], and TBPEKE [3,38].1
Our Contributions. We show that cost-optimal aPAKE does not have to
come at the expense of round complexity. We do so with two new aPAKE
constructions, called OKAPE and aEKE, which are generic compilers that con-
struct aPAKE’s from any key-hiding one-time-key Authenticated Key Exchange
(otkAKE). Both constructions use the Random Oracle Model (ROM) and an
Ideal Cipher (IC) on message spaces formed by otkAKE public keys, and in the
case of aEKE also on the space(s) of otkAKE protocol messages. We deﬁne the
notion of key-hiding otkAKE as a relaxation of the UC key-hiding AKE of [25],
and we show that it is realized by “one-pass” variants of 3DH and HMQV which
were shown as UC key-hiding AKEs in [25].
The two compilers instantiated with one-pass HMQV produce two concrete
aPAKE schemes which we call OKAPE-HMQV and aEKE-HMQV. Both protocols
have close to optimal computational cost of 1fb+1vb exp for the client and
1fb+1mvb exp for the server, where mvb stands for multi-exponentiation with
two bases. Moreover, protocol aEKE-HMQV needs only a single simultaneous ﬂow
1 Abdalla et al. [3] show that SPAKE2 [4] and TBPEKE [38] realize a relaxed version
of the UC PAKE functionality of Canetti et al. [15].

Asymmetric PAKE with Low Computation and Communication
129
of communication, hence aEKE-HMQV matches the lowest cost KE and PAKE
protocols in both computation and round complexity.
Protocol OKAPE requires 2 communication rounds if the server initiates the
protocol, and 3 if the client does. However, protocol aEKE uses unsalted password
hashes, whereas OKAPE supports (publicly) salted password hashes, which have
several security and operational beneﬁts over unsalted ones (see Note 1 below).
Note that every aPAKE can be generically transformed to support a publicly
salted hash if the server ﬁrst sends the salt to the client and the two parties
run aPAKE on the password appended by the salt. However, among prior UC
aPAKE’s that use unsalted password hashes [24,28,32,41], only the aPAKE of
Jutla and Roy [32] and Hwang et al. [28] match the round complexity of OKAPE-
HMQV after this transformation, but they do not match its computational cost:
The PAKE-to-aPAKE compiler of [28] instantiatied with a minimal-cost PAKE
has a total computational cost of 3fb+3vb exps, i.e. 50% more than uDH, while
the aPAKE of [32] is signiﬁcantly more expensive, in particular because it uses
bilinear maps. This generic transformation can also be applied to aEKE-HMQV,
and the resulting protocol would match both the rounds and exponentiation
count of OKAPE-HMQV, but OKAPE-HMQV uses only one ideal cipher operation
per party whereas aEKE-HMQV uses two, hence the latter is preferable if the
cost of IC on a group is not negligible.
The only prior UC aPAKE’s that natively support salted hashes with 3 or
fewer communication rounds is the 3-round protocol OPAQUE of Jarecki et
al. [30,31] and the 2-round CKEM-based protocol of Bradley et al. [13]. Both
of these protocols have at least 2 times higher computational costs than uDH.
However, both [30] and [13] provide strong aPAKEs (saPAKE), where the salt
in the password hash is private, whereas OKAPE supports publicly salted hash
and aEKE supports only unsalted hash, see Note 1 below.
In Table 1 we compare eﬃciency and security properties of prior UC aPAKE’s
and the concrete protocols we propose. Note that all schemes which achieve
explicit authentication for only one party can also achieve it for the other using
one additional key conﬁrmation ﬂow. Note also that any single-ﬂow aPAKE can
be transformed so it achieves explicit authentication for both parties in 3 ﬂows,
regardless of which party starts. In the table we do not include aPAKE schemes
which were not proven in UC models so far, including VPAKE [8] or PAK-X
[12], but both schemes are slightly costlier than e.g. KC-SPAKE2+ [41], see e.g.
[13] for exact cost comparisons.
Main Idea: Encrypted Key Exchange Paradigm for aPAKE. Our pro-
tocols are compilers which build aPAKE’s from any key-hiding otkAKE, i.e. an
AKE where one party uses a one-time key. In both protocols server S picks a
one-time public key pair (b, B) and sends the public key B encrypted under a
password hash h to client C, who decrypts it under a hash of its password pw.
C also has a long-term private key a derived as a password hash as well, i.e.
(h, a) = H(pw), and S holds the corresponding public key A together with h in
the password ﬁle for this client. The two parties then run a key-hiding otkAKE
on respective inputs (a, B) and (b, A), but here the two compilers diverge: In

130
B. F. Dos Santos et al.
Table
1. Comparison of UC aPAKE schemes, with our schemes marked [∗]:
(1) f, v denote resp. ﬁxed-base and variable-base exponentiation, two-base multi-
exponentiation is counted as 1.2v, O(1) stands for signiﬁcantly larger costs including
bilinear maps; (2) x(C) and x(S) denote x rounds if respectively client starts or server
starts, while “1” denotes a single-ﬂow protocol; (3) EA column lists the parties that
explicitly authenticate their counterparty at protocol termination. OPAQUE-HMQV
appeared in [30], but above we give optimized performances characteristics due to [31].
scheme
client(1)
server(1)
rounds(2)
salting
EA(3)
assump.
model
aEKE-HMQV [∗]
1f+1.2v
1f+1.2v
1
none
none
gapDH
RO/IC
Jutla-Roy [32]
O(1)
O(1)
1
none
none
XDH
RO
KC-SPAKE2+ [41]
2f+2v
2f+2v
3(C)
none
C+S
CDH
RO
OKAPE-HMQV [∗]
1f+1.2v
1f+1.2v
2(S)
public
S
gapDH
RO/IC
Hwang [28] +EKE [7]
2f+1v
1f+2.2v
2(S)
public
S
CDH
RO/IC
KHAPE-HMQV [25]
1f+1.2v
1f+1.2v
3(S)
public
C+S
gapDH
RO/IC
CKEM-saPAKE [13]
10f+1v
2f+2v
2(C)
private
C
sDH, DDH
RO
OPAQUE-HMQV [31]
2f+2.2v
1f+2.2v
3(C)
private
C+S
OM-DH
RO
OKAPE the otkAKE subprotocol is executed in a black-box way, and it is fol-
lowed by explicit key conﬁrmation message from C to S, whereas in aEKE each
otkAKE subprotocol message is encrypted under the password hash by its sender
and decrypted under the password hash by its receiver, and no key conﬁrmation
message is needed for security. The protocols are shown secure if password-
encryption is implemented with an Ideal Cipher on the appropriate message
domain, which consists of one-time public keys and/or protocol messages of the
underlying otkAKE. Finally, the aEKE compiler requires the key-hiding otkAKE
to satisfy a random transcript property, i.e. that protocol messages are indistin-
guishable from uniform over their message spaces.
Note that in both protocols S and C start on resp. inputs A and a and run
the following subprotocol: (1) S picks a one-time key pair (b, B) and sends B
to C, and (2) the two run otkAKE on resp. (a, B) and (b, A). This subprotocol
forms an Authenticated Key Exchange with unilateral authentication (ua-KE),
where C is authenticated to S but not vice versa. Viewed in this way, protocol
aEKE can be seen as an application of the same paradigm as the Encrypted
Key Exchange (EKE) of Bellovin and Merritt [7]. EKE is a compiler which
constructs a (symmetric) PAKE from any random-transcript KE: Each party
runs the underlying KE but encrypts protocol messages using a password as a
key. This creates a UC PAKE if the encryption is an IC on the KE protocol
message space [6,37]. Protocol aEKE utilizes the exact same methodology of IC-
encryption of KE protocol messages with a password (or its hash), but applied
to ua-KE instead of KE, and we show that this creates a UC asymmetric PAKE.
If an EKE is applied to a single simultaneous ﬂow, i.e. 1-round, KE like uDH,
it creates 1-round PAKE. In the same way our aEKE compiler creates 1-round
aPAKE given a 1-round ua-KE. On the other hand, if EKE instantiated with
uDH is executed sequentially then the responder party can send its DH message
without IC-encrypting it under the password if it attaches a key conﬁrmation

Asymmetric PAKE with Low Computation and Communication
131
message the response [6,7]. The same trade-oﬀis done by OKAPE compared to
aEKE: OKAPE forgoes on IC-encryption of C’s ua-KE message but requires C to
send a key conﬁrmation message instead.
C(pw)
S(pw)
h ←H(pw)
h ←H(pw)
IC.Eh(gx)
IC.Eh(gb)
k = gxb
(a) EKE.v1: simultaneous ﬂow
C(pw)
S(h, A)
(h, a) ←H(pw)
[ A = ga ]
IC.Eh(gx)
IC.Eh(gb)
k = g(x+d·a)b for d = H (trans)
(b) aEKE-HMQV
C(pw)
S(pw)
h ←H(pw)
h ←H(pw)
IC.Eh(gb)
gx, prf(k, 1)
k = gxb
(c) EKE.v2: sequential, with initiator S
C(pw)
S(h, A)
(h, a) ←H(pw)
[ A = ga ]
IC.Eh(gb)
gx, prf(k, 1)
k = g(x+d·a)b for d = H (trans)
(d) OKAPE-HMQV
Fig. 1. Symmetric PAKE: EKE (a, c) vs. our asymmetric PAKE’s (b, d) (Color ﬁgure
online)
These parallels are easy to see if the one-pass HMQV instantiations of aEKE
and OKAPE are put side-by-side the two variants of EKE instantiated with
uDH as KE, see Fig. 1.2 Since both EKE and our protocols are compilers, resp.
from KE and ua-KE, we highlight the underlying uDH instantiation of KE and
the one-pass HMQV instantiation of ua-KE in these ﬁgures in blue. The choice
of variable names gx and gb in the Diﬃe-Hellman key agreement comes from
one-pass HMQV, where ga and gb are resp. the permanent public key of C
and the one-time public key of S, while gx is the Diﬃe-Hellman contribution of
C. Intuitively, a corresponding gy contribution of S is not needed because the
ephemeral key gb already plays this role.
The security of our aPAKEs holds for essentially the same reasons as the
security of EKE: (1) security against passive attackers holds regardless of pw by
the passive security of the underlying (ua-)KE; (2) if encryption is an ideal cipher
then any ciphertext sent by an attacker to C decrypts to a random group element
B′ = gb′ on all passwords except the one used by an attacker in encryption, so
an attack on such sessions would be an attack on a passively observed otkAKE
instance; (3) the attacker can encrypt a chosen gb value under a single password,
but in the IC model the simulator can observe this and extract a unique password
2 Actual protocols diverge from Fig. 1 in some technicalities, e.g. session key deriva-
tion uses a hash of k, but crucially H inputs include a salt in OKAPE-HMQV and
server/user identiﬁers in aEKE-HMQV: We come back to this last point below.

132
B. F. Dos Santos et al.
guess which the attacker tests in such protocol instance; (4) same arguments work
regarding attacks on S in aEKE, while in OKAPE the client’s key conﬁrmation
message commits the attacker to a session key, which implies a single input pair
(a, B) for which this session key is correct, which in turn commits to a single
password from which (a, B) are derived.
Although our protocols can be seen as applications of EKE compiler to
ua-KE, we analyze them as compilers from otkAKE for several reasons: First,
otkAKE is a simpler notion which can be realized with a single protocol ﬂow;
Second, otkAKE yields ua-KE (see above) while the converse is not clear; Third,
setting the boundary around otkAKE lets us treat it as a black box in OKAPE
compiler, because S’s one time key gb, which is the only part that OKAPE wraps
using IC encryption is an input to otkAKE, and not its protocol message. In
aEKE the otkAKE subprotocol is not used as a black-box, because its protocol
messages are IC-encrypted, and this compiler is secure only if otkAKE has a
random-transcript property. We prove aEKE secure only for otkAKE realized
with a single-ﬂow protocol, which includes both our otkAKE instantiations, i.e.
one-pass 3DH and HMQV. Although we believe that this compiler works for
multi-round protocols as well, we show it only for single-round otkAKE to limit
the complexities in the security argument, which arise from the non-black-box
use of otkAKE in this compiler.
Similarities to OPAQUE and KHAPE. Our protocols are also closely
related to saPAKE protocol OPAQUE [30] and aPAKE protocol KHAPE [25].
Both of these protocols were compilers from AKE (the OPAQUE protocol in
addition uses an Oblivious PRF), where passwords are used to encrypt the
client’s private key a and the server’s public key B, the corresponding keys
A and b are held in a password ﬁle held by S for this client C, and the key
establishment comes from AKE run on these inputs. Protocol KHAPE can be
seen as a variant of OPAQUE without the Oblivious PRF. In that case security
degrades from saPAKE to aPAKE, but the resulting aPAKE can have minimal
cost (i.e. ≈KE) if C’s AKE inputs (a, B) are delivered from S to C in an enve-
lope, IC-encrypted under the password, and if the AKE protocol is key-hiding,
i.e. even an active attacker cannot tell what keys (sk P, pk CP) an attacked party
P assumes except if the attacker knows the corresponding pair (pk P, sk CP). The
reason the KHAPE compiler needs the key-hiding property of AKE is to avoid
oﬀ-line attacks, because if each password decrypts the envelope sent to the client
into some pair (a′, B′), there must be no way to test which pair corresponds to
either the client or the server keys unless via an active attack which tests at
most one of these choices.
Our compilers OKAPE and aEKE are reﬁnements of the KHAPE compiler:
First, instead of permanent envelope in the password ﬁle that encrypts (and
authenticates) a permanent server public key gb, we ask the server to create one-
time key per each execution, and IC-encrypt it under a password hash stored in
the password ﬁle. Replacing key-hiding AKE with key-hiding one-time-key AKE
reduces complexity because it can be instantiated with a single C-to-S message.
In addition, the IC encryption with subsequent otkAKE together implement

Asymmetric PAKE with Low Computation and Communication
133
implicit S-to-C authentication: If the attacker does not encrypt B = gb under
C’s password then C will decrypt it into a random key B′ = gb′, for which
the attacker cannot compute the corresponding session key because it does not
know b′. This lets us eliminate the S-to-C key conﬁrmation message in KHAPE
and leads to OKAPE. If in addition C’s AKE message is IC-encrypted under a
password hash then we eliminate also the C-to-S key conﬁrmation message in
KHAPE and we get the aEKE protocol, an aPAKE which is non-interactive and
has optimal computation cost.
Note 1: Salted and Unsalted Password Hashes vs. Round Complexity.
The UC aPAKE model of Gentry et al. [24] does not enforce salting of pass-
word hashes, which allows their precomputation and an immediate look-up once
the server storage is breached. By contrast, Jarecki et al. [30] proposed a UC
strong aPAKE model (saPAKE), where each password ﬁle includes a random
and private salt value s, and the password hash involves this salt and cannot be
precomputed without it. Our protocols aEKE and OKAPE are just aPAKEs, not
saPAKEs, but they can support public salting of the password hash, which has
security advantages over unsalted hash. Looking more closely, the aPAKE model
of [24] enforces that a single real-world oﬄine dictionary attack test corresponds
not only to a single password guess pw ∗but also a single tuple (S, uid) where S is
an identiﬁer of a server S and uid is a userID with which S associates a password
ﬁle. (This can be seen in command (OﬄineTestPwd, S, uid, pw ∗) to the aPAKE
functionality of [24], included in Fig. 9 in Sect. A.) This means that a password
hash in UC aPAKE, at least as deﬁned by [24], cannot be implemented e.g.
simply as h = H(pw) but in the very least as h = H(S, uid, pw), so that a single
H computation corresponds to a single password guess pw and a single account
(S, uid). This is indeed how we implement the RO hash in protocol aEKE, see
Sect. 4.
However, such implementation has some negative implications, stemming
from the fact that C has to know values (S, uid) in the protocol. (This is reﬂected
in the aPAKE functionality realized by protocol aEKE, see Appendix A.) Tying
such application-layer values in a cryptographic protocol can be problematic. For
example, in some applications it might be ﬁne to equate S with e.g. the server’s
domain name, but it would be then impossible to modify it, since all users
would have to reinitialize and recompute their password hashes. An alternative
generic implementation is to use (semi) public salts as follows: S can associate
each uid account with a random salt s, set the password hash as h = H(pw|s),
attach s in the ﬁrst S-to-C aPAKE message, and the two parties can then run an
unsalted aPAKE on a modiﬁed password pw ′ = pw|s. Since each s is associated
with a unique (S, uid) pair, each H computation still corresponds to a unique
(S, uid, pw) tuple, but C does not need values (S, uid) within the aPAKE protocol,
and password hashes do not have to change with changes to identiﬁers S or uid.
Moreover, if the aPAKE protocol runs over a TLS connection then an adversary
can ﬁnd s only via an online interaction with S, and it needs to know the user
ID string uid for S to retrieve the uid-indexed password ﬁle and send s out. Even

134
B. F. Dos Santos et al.
better, if clients update the (s, h) values at each login, then value s the adversary
compromises for some user will be obsolete after that user authenticates to S.
However, this implementation requires interaction. Since S sends the ﬁrst
message in OKAPE, attaching s to S’s message does not inﬂuence the round
complexity of OKAPE, and this is indeed how we implement password hashes in
that protocol, see Sect. 3. Every unsalted aPAKE can be transformed to publicly
salted in this way, but for many aPAKEs, including aEKE, this would imply
additional communication rounds.
Note 2: Implicit and Explicit Authentication vs. Round Complexity.
Note that our round-minimal aPAKE protocol aEKE does not have explicit entity
authentication, i.e. each party computes a key and the security implies that only
a party with proper credentials can compute that key as well, but they do not
get a conﬁrmation that their counterparty can compute the same key and thus
is indeed the party they meant to establish a connection with. Key conﬁrmation
can be added to any KE protocol, but it adds a round of communication. Like-
wise, our three-round (if C initializes) aPAKE protocol OKAPE has only C-to-S
entity authentication, and adding S-to-C entity authentication would make it a
four-round protocol. Therefore the round-reduction advantage of OKAPE over
protocol KHAPE of [25] will beneﬁt only those applications where C can use the
session key without waiting for S’s key conﬁrmation message.
Note 3: Current Costs of Ideal Cipher on Groups. Just like EKE [6,7],
our protocols rely on an ideal cipher on group elements. Implementing an ideal
cipher on elliptic curve groups, which are of most interest for current aPAKE
proposals, is non-trivial and current techniques for implementing them incur
non-negligible costs in computation and sometimes in bandwidth expansion as
well. We discuss several implementation options for group IC in Sect. 6, but to
give an example, using the Elligator2 method [9] each IC operation can cost
≈10–15% of 1vb exp and it requires resampling of the encrypted random group
element with probability 1/2. Thus we can estimate the total computational
cost of OKAPE-HMQV with this IC implementation as (expected) 2fb+1.15vb
for S and 1fb+1.15vb for C, and of aEKE-HMQV as 2fb+1.30vb per each party.
However, the overhead of IC might be signiﬁcantly smaller in the case of other
settings of interest, like lattice cryptosystems.
Organization. In Sect. 2, we deﬁne key-hiding one-time-key AKE as a UC
notion, and we show that 2DH and one-pass HMQV both securely realize this
notion under the Gap DH assumption in ROM. In Sect. 3 and Sect. 4, we show
our two compilers from otkAKE to asymmetric PAKE, namely OKAPE and
aEKE. In Sect. 5 we describe two concrete aPAKE protocol proposals, OKAPE-
HMQV and aEKE-HMQV, which instantiate OKAPE and aEKE with one-pass
HMQV as the otkAKE. In Sect. 6 we discuss possible implementation choices of
an ideal cipher encryption on elliptic curve groups. Finally, in Appendix A we
include our deﬁnition(s) of the UC aPAKE model, and in Appendix B we include
the overview of the security proof for protocol OKAPE. For space constraint

Asymmetric PAKE with Low Computation and Communication
135
reasons we defer all security proofs to the full version [23], including an extension
which instantiates otkAKE based on SKEME [34], which allows for aPAKE
construction based solely on KEM.
2
Key-Hiding One-Time-Key AKE
We deﬁne key-hiding one-time-key Authenticated Key Exchange (otkAKE), as
an asymmetric variant of the universally composable key-hiding AKE deﬁned in
[25]. We denote the otkAKE functionality FotkAKE and we include it in Fig. 2. An
AKE functionality allows parties to generate public key pairs (this is modeled
by environment query Init to the functionality). These keys can be compromised,
modeled by adversarial query Compromise. However, this is the key diﬀerence
between our (key-hiding) otkAKE functionality and the (key-hiding) AKE func-
tionality of [25], here we distinguish two types of keys, the long-term keys which
can be compromised by the adversary, and the ephemeral keys which cannot. We
arbitrarily call the ﬁrst type “client keys” and the second “server keys” because
this is how we will use an otkAKE protocol in the context of our otkAKE-to-
aPAKE compilers in Sect. 3 and 4, i.e. clients will use long-term keys and servers
will use ephemeral keys in both of these applications of otkAKE.
As in [25], any party P holding a key pair indexed by the public key pk P,
whether a long-term one or an ephemeral one, can start a session using such
key, and using also some key pk CP as the public key of the counterparty that
P expends on this session. This is modeled by the environment’s command
(NewSession, sid, CP, role, pk P, pk CP) to P, where sid is the unique session identi-
ﬁer, CP is the supposed identiﬁer of the counterparty, and role is either cl or sr,
deﬁning if P is supposed to run the long-term-key party or the ephemeral-key
party. (As we can see below, the protocols realizing this functionality can be
asymmetric, so parties act diﬀerently based on that role bit). As in [25], the
functionality marks this session as initially fresh, creates an appropriate session
record and picks a random function Rsid
P (whose meaning we will explain shortly).
Crucially the functionality only sends (NewSession, sid, P, CP, role) to the adver-
sary, i.e. the adversary only learns which party P wants to authenticate, which
party CP they intend to communicate with, what session identiﬁer sid they use,
and whether they play the client and the server role, but the adversary does
not learn the keys this party uses, neither their own key pk P nor the key pk CP
this party expects of its counterparty. This, exactly as in [25], models the key-
hiding property of the AKE’s which are required in our AKE-to-aPAKE compiler
constructions.
Next, if an adversary actively attacks session Psid, as opposed to passively
observing its interaction with some other session CPsid, this is modeled by
the adversarial query Interfere, and its eﬀect is that session Psid is marked as
interfered. The consequence of this marking comes in when the session termi-
nates (i.e. if the adversary delivers all messages this party expects) and outputs

136
B. F. Dos Santos et al.
PK stores all public keys created in Init; CPK stores all compromised keys;
PK cl
P stores P’s permanent public keys; PK sr
P stores P’s ephemeral public keys;
Keys: Initialization and Attacks
On (Init, role) from P:
If role ∈{cl, sr} send (Init, P, role) to A, let A specify pk s.t. pk
PK, add pk to
PK and PK role
P , and output (Init, pk) to P. If P is corrupt then add pk to CPK.
On (Compromise, P, pk) from A:
[this query must be approved by the environment]
If pk ∈PK cl
P then add pk to CPK.
Login Sessions: Initialization and Attacks
On (NewSession, sid, CP, role, pk P, pk CP) from P:
If pk P ∈PK role
P
and there is no prior session record sid, P, ·, ·, ·, ·,
then:
– create session record sid, P, CP, pk P, pk CP, role,
marked fresh;
– if role = cl and pk CP
PK sr
CP then re-label this record as interfered;
– initialize random function Rsid
P : {0, 1}3 →{0, 1}κ;
– send (NewSession, sid, P, CP, role) to A.
On (Interfere, sid, P) from A:
If there is session sid, P, ·, ·, ·, ·,
marked fresh then change it to interfered.
Login Sessions: Key Establishment
On (NewKey, sid, P, α) from A:
If ∃session record rec = sid, P, CP, pk P, pk CP, role,
then:
– if rec is marked fresh: If ∃record sid, CP, P, pk CP, pk P, role , k
marked fresh
s.t. role = role and k = ⊥then set k ←k , else pick k ←R {0, 1}κ;
– if rec is marked interfered then set k ←Rsid
P (pk P, pk CP, α);
– update rec to sid, P, CP, pk P, pk CP, role, k
and output (NewKey, sid, k) to P.
Session-Key Query
On (SessionKey, sid, P, pk, pk , α) from A:
If ∃record sid, P, ·, ·, ·, ·,
and pk
(PK \ CPK) then send Rsid
P (pk, pk , α) to A.
Fig. 2. FotkAKE: functionality for key-hiding one-time key AKE
a key, which is modeled by adversarial query NewKey. Namely, if a session is
fresh, i.e. it was not actively attacked, then the functionality picks its output
session key k as a random string. In other words, this key is secure because
there is no interface which allows the adversary to get any information about it.
If the adversary passively connects two sessions, e.g. Psid and CPsid, by honestly
exchanging their messages, then FotkAKE will notice at the NewKey processing
that there are two sessions (P, sid, CP, pk P, pk CP, role) (CP, sid, P, pk ′
P, pk ′
CP, role′)
that run on matching keys, i.e. pk CP = pk ′
P and pk ′
CP = pk P, and complementary

Asymmetric PAKE with Low Computation and Communication
137
roles, i.e. role ̸= role′, then FotkAKE sets the key of the session that terminates
last as a copy of the one that terminated ﬁrst. This is indeed as it should be:
If two parties run AKE on matching inputs and keys and their messages are
delivered without interference they should output the same key.
However, if session Psid has been actively attacked, hence it is marked
interfered, the session key k output by Psid is determined by the random func-
tion Rsid
P . Speciﬁcally, the key will be assigned as the value of Rsid
P
on a tuple
of three inputs: (1) P’s own key pk P, (2) the counterparty’s key pk CP which P
assumes, and (3) the protocol transcript α which w.l.o.g. is determined by the
adversary on this session. This is a non-standard way of modeling KE func-
tionalities, but it suﬃces for our applications and it allows for inexpensive and
communication-minimal implementations as we exhibit with protocols 2DH and
one-pass HMQV below. The intuition is that this assures that for any protocol
transcript the adversary chooses, each key pair (pk P, pk CP) which P can use cor-
responds to an independent session key output of P. Some of these keys can be
computed by the adversary via interface SessionKey: The adversary can use it
to compute the key P would output on a given transcript α and a given pair
(pk P, pk CP) = (pk, pk ′) but only if pk ′ is either compromised or it is an adversar-
ial key, hence w.l.o.g. we assume the adversary knows the corresponding secret
key.
Here is also where our key-hiding one-time-key AKE diverges from the key-
hiding AKE notion of [25]: If session Psid runs with a client-role then its session
key output is guaranteed secure if their assumed counterparty’s key pk CP is
indeed an ephemeral key of the intended counterparty. Since such keys cannot
be compromised, a SessionKey query with pk ′ = pk CP will fail the criterion that
pk ′ is compromised or adversarial, hence the adversary has no interface to learn
P’s output session key. However, if the environment (i.e. the higher-level appli-
cation, like either of our compilers, which utilizes the otkAKE subprotocol) asks
Psid to run on pk CP which is not an ephemeral key of the intended counter-
party then FotkAKE treats such session as automatically attacked, and marks it
interfered. Such session’s output key will be computed as k ←Rsid
P (pk P, pk CP, α),
and whether or not the adversary can recompute this key via the SessionKey
interface depends on whether this (potentially non-ephemeral) key pk CP is com-
promised or adversarial.
The security of our otkAKE protocols, 2DH and one-pass HMQV, are based
on hardness of Gap CDH problem. Recall that Gap CDH is deﬁned as follows: Let
g generates a cyclic group G of prime order p. The Computational Diﬃe-Hellman
(CDH) assumption on G states that given (X, Y ) = (gx, gy) for (x, y) ←R (Zp)2
it’s hard to ﬁnd cdhg(X, Y ) = gxy. The Gap CDH assumption states that CDH
is hard even if adversary has access to a Decisional Diﬃe-Hellman oracle ddhg,
which on input (A, B, C) returns 1 if C = cdhg(A, B) and 0 otherwise.

138
B. F. Dos Santos et al.
2.1
2DH as Key-Hiding One-Time-Key AKE
We show that key-hiding one-time-key AKE can be instantiated with a “one-
pass” variant of the 3DH AKE protocol. 3DH is an implicitly authenticated key
exchange used as the basis of the X3DH protocol [36] that underlies the Signal
encrypted communication application. 3DH consists of a plain Diﬃe-Hellman
exchange which is authenticated by combining the ephemeral and long-term key
of both peers. Speciﬁcally, if (a, A) and (b, B) are the long-term key pairs of
two communicating parties C and S, and (x, X) and (y, Y ) are their ephemeral
DH values, then 3DH computes the session key as a hash of the triple of Diﬃe-
Hellman values, (gxb, gay, gxy).
group G of prime order p with generator g
hash function H : {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}κ
P1 on (Init, cl)
P2 on (Init, sr)
a ←R Zp, A ←ga
b ←R Zp, B ←gb
store sk = a tagged by pk = A
store sk = b tagged by pk = B
output pk = A
output pk = B
P1 on (NewSession, sid, CP1, cl, A, B)
P2 on (NewSession, sid, CP2, sr, B, A)
retrieve sk = a tagged by pk = A
retrieve sk = b tagged by pk = B
x ←R Zp, X ←gx
(abort if key B is not ephemeral)
X
σcl ←B x B a
σsr ←Xb Ab
kcl ←H(sid, P1, CP1, X, σcl)
ksr ←H(sid, CP2, P2, X, σsr)
output kcl
output ksr
Fig. 3. otkAKE protocol 2DH
This protocol was shown to realize the key-hiding AKE functionality in [25],
and here we show that a one-pass version of this protocol, which we call 2DH,
realizes the key-hiding one-time-key AKE functionality FotkAKE deﬁned above.
In this modiﬁed setting key (b, B) is a one-time key of party S, and hence it
can play a double-role as S authenticator and its ephemeral DH contribution.
Therefore the only additional ephemeral key needed is the (x, X) value provided
by C, and 2DH will compute the session key as a (hash of) the pair of DH values,
(gxb, gab). See Fig. 3 were we describe the 2DH protocol in more detail. In that
ﬁgure we assume that both C’s key (a, A) and S’s key (b, B) were created prior to
protocol execution, but we note that S’s key must be a one-time, i.e. ephemeral,
key, so in practice it should be created just before the protocol starts and erased
once the protocol executes.
We capture the security property of 2DH in the following theorem:

Asymmetric PAKE with Low Computation and Communication
139
Theorem 1. Protocol 2DH shown in Fig. 3 realizes functionality FotkAKE,
assuming that the Gap CDH assumption holds on group G and H is a random
oracle.
The proof of the above theorem is a close variant of the proof given in [25]
that 3DH realizes the key-hiding AKE functionality (where both parties use
permanent keys). For the reason of space constraints we include this proof in
the full version of the paper [23].
2.2
One-Pass HMQV as Key-Hiding One-Time-Key AKE
Similiarly to the case of 3DH, we show that a one-pass version of the HMQV pro-
tocol [26,35] realizes functionality FotkAKE under the same Gap CDH assumption
in ROM. HMQV is a signiﬁcantly more eﬃcient AKE protocol compared to 3DH
because it replaces 3 variable-base exponentiations with 1 multi-exponentiation
with two bases. Just like 3DH, HMQV involves both the ephemeral sessions
secrets (x, y) and the long-term keys (a, b), and computes session key using a
DH-like formula g(x+da)·(y+eb) where d and e are derived via an RO hash of the
ephemeral DH contributions, resp. X = gx and Y = gy.
group G of prime order p with generator g
hash functions H : {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}κ, H : {0, 1}∗→Zp
P1 on Init, cl
P2 on Init, sr
a ←R Zp, A ←ga
b ←R Zp, B ←gb
store sk = a tagged by pk = A
store sk = b tagged by pk = B
output pk = A
output pk = B
P1 on (NewSession, sid, CP1, cl, A, B)
P2 on (NewSession, sid, CP2, sr, B, A)
retrieve sk = a tagged by pk = A
retrieve sk = b tagged by pk = B
x ←R Zp, X ←gx
(abort if key B is not ephemeral)
X
dcl ←H (sid, P1, CP1, X)
dsr ←H (sid, CP2, P2, X)
σcl ←B x+dcl·a
σsr ←(X · Adsr)b
kcl ←H(sid, P1, CP1, X, σcl)
ksr ←H(sid, CP2, P2, X, σsr)
output kcl
output ksr
Fig. 4. otkAKE protocol One-Pass HMQV
Gu et al. [25] showed that HMQV realizes the same key-hiding AKE function-
ality as 3DH, and here we show that a one-pass HMQV realizes the key-hiding
one-time-key AKE functionality FotkAKE. Just like in 2DH, in one-pass HMQV
pair (b, B) is a one-time key of party S, which eﬀectively plays the role of both
server’s public key and its ephemeral DH contribution. Hence just as 2DH, the

140
B. F. Dos Santos et al.
only ephemeral DH contribution needed is pair (x, X) provided by C, and the
session key can be derived as g(x+a)·b. The full protocol is shown in Fig. 4. As
in 2DH we assume that the client and server keys are created before protocol
execution, but that the server’s key must be a one-time key which is used once
and erased afterwards.
We capture the security of one-pass HMQV in the following theorem:
Theorem 2. Protocol One-Pass HMQV shown in Fig 4 realizes FotkAKE if the
Gap CDH assumption holds on group G and H is a random oracle.
The proof of theorem 2 follows the template of the proof for the corresponding
theorem on 2DH security, i.e. Theorem 1. It is also a variant of the similar proof
shown in [25] which showed that the full HMQV realizes the permanent-key
variant of the key-hiding functionality FotkAKE deﬁned therein. Because of space
constraints, we defer this proof to the full version of the paper [23].
3
Protocol OKAPE: Asymmetric PAKE Construction #1
In this section we show how any UC key-hiding one-time-key AKE protocol can
be converted into a UC aPAKE, with very small communication and computa-
tional overhead. We call this otkAKE-to-aPAKE compiler OKAPE, which stands
for One-time-Key Asymetric PakE, and we present it in Fig. 5. As we discussed
in the introduction, protocol OKAPE is similar to protocol KHAPE of [25] which
is a compiler that creates an aPAKE from any UC key-hiding AKE where both
parties use permanent keys. As in KHAPE, the password ﬁle which the server
S stores and the password which the client C enters into the protocol, allow
them to derive AKE inputs (a, B) for C and (b, A) for S, where (a, A) is eﬀec-
tively a client’s password-authenticated public key pair and (b, B) is a server’s
password-authenticated public key pair, and the authenticated key agreement
then consists of executing a key-hiding AKE on the above inputs. (The AKE
must be key-hiding or otherwise an attacker could link the keys used by either
party to a password they used to derive them).
Protocol otkAKE follows the same general strategy but it diﬀers from KHAPE
in (1) how these keys are derived from the client’s password and the server’s
password ﬁle, (2) in the type of key-hiding AKE it requires, and (3) whether or
not the AKE must be followed by key conﬁrmation messages sent be both parties.
In KHAPE the server-side AKE inputs (b, A) were part of the server’s password
ﬁle, and the client-side AKE inputs (a, B) were password-encrypted using an
ideal cipher in an envelope e = IC.Epw(a, B) stored in the password ﬁle and sent
from S to C in each protocol instance. Finally, since both public keys were long-
term keys, the protocol required each party to send a key-conﬁrmation message
and C needed to send its conﬁrmation before S did or otherwise the protocol
would be subject to an oﬄine dictionary attack. The ﬁrst modiﬁcation made
by OKAPE is that the client’s private key a is derived directly as a password
hash, and does not need to be encrypted in envelope e. Secondly, there is no
permanent server’s key (b, B). Instead S generates a one-time key pair (b, B) at

Asymmetric PAKE with Low Computation and Communication
141
Building blocks: (1) one-time-key Authenticated Key Exchange otkAKE; (2) ideal
cipher (IC∗.E, IC∗.D) on space PK of otkAKE public keys; (3) RO hash function
H : {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}κ × {0, 1}κ; (4) pseudorandom function prf.
Password File Initialization on S’s input (StorePwdFile, uid, pw):
S picks s ←R {0, 1}κ, sets (h, a) ←H(pw, s), S generates otkAKE public key A
corresponding to a, stores ﬁle[uid, S] ←(A, h, s), and discards all other values
C on (CltSession, sid, S, pw)
S on (SvrSession, sid, C, uid)
(A, h, s) ←ﬁle[uid, S]
(h, a) ←H(pw, s)
e = IC∗.E(h, B), s
(b, B) ←Key.Gen
B ←IC∗.D(h, e)
(sid, S, cl, a, B)
(sid, C, sr, b, A)
otkAKE
kcl
ksr
τ ←prf(kcl, 1)
τ
Ksr ←⊥if τ = prf(ksr, 1)
Kcl ←prf(kcl, 0)
else Ksr ←prf(ksr, 0)
output Kcl
output Ksr
Fig. 5. Protocol OKAPE: compiler from key-hiding otkAKE to aPAKE
each protocol instance, and authenticates-and-encrypts its public key B under
a password by sending to C an envelope e = IC.Eh(B) where h is a password
hash stored in the password ﬁle. Since B is now a one-time key, we can replace
key-hiding AKE used in KHAPE with a key-hiding one-time-key AKE, which
as we saw in Sect. 2 can be realized with cheaper subprotocols.
More importantly, the IC-encryption of the one-time key B followed by com-
puting the otkAKE session key output by C given input B, implies implicit
password-authentication under a unique password: By the properties of the ideal
cipher a ciphertext e commits the sender to a single choice of key h (and hence
password pw from which h is derived) used to create this ciphertext on a plain-
text B chosen by the sender. Hence there can be at most one key h (and thus at
most one password pw) s.t. envelope e decrypts to a key B for which the sender
knows the corresponding secret key b, and thus can complete the otkAKE pro-
tocol ran by C on the key B it decrypts from e. Whereas the protocol still
requires a key conﬁrmation by C (otherwise a malicious C could stage an oﬄine
dictionary attack once it learned S’s session key), the fact that the envelope
already implicitly authenticates S implies that it no longer needs a subsequent
key conﬁrmation by S.
The main appeal of OKAPE compared to the KHAPE construction in [25]
comes from the last implication, i.e. from the fact that we achieve security with-
out the explicit key conﬁrmation from S. If the OKAPE subprotocol is instanti-

142
B. F. Dos Santos et al.
ated with either of the two key-hiding otkAKE protocols of Sect. 2, the result is a
2-round aPAKE protocol if S is an initiator and a 3-round protocol if C is an ini-
tiator (such concrete instantiation is shown in Fig. 7 in Sect. 5). Lastly, because
S starts the protocol, protocol OKAPE can use (publicly) salted password hash
at no extra cost to such instantiations: A random salt value s can be part of
the password ﬁle, the password hash can be deﬁned as H(pw, s), and s can be
delivered from S to C in S’s ﬁrst protocol message, together with envelope e.
This round-complexity improvement is “purchased” at the cost of two trade-
oﬀs. First, in OKAPE server S is only implicitly authenticated to C, and if C
requires an explicit authentication of S before C uses its session key then the
round reduction no longer applies. Secondly, OKAPE can be slightly more com-
putationally expensive than KHAPE because S needs to generate envelope e
on-line, which adds an ideal cipher encryption operation to the protocol cost,
and current ideal cipher implementations for e.g. elliptic curve group elements
have small but non-negligible costs (see Sect. 6).
One additional caveat in protocol OKAPE is that because we want C to derive
its AKE private key a from a password hash, we must assume that OKAPE
generates private keys from uniformly random bitstrings. This is true about
any public key generator if that bitstring is treated as the randomness of the key
generator algorithm. For some public key cryptosystems, e.g. RSA, this would be
a rather impractical representation of the private key, but in the cryptosystems
based on Diﬃe-Hellman in prime-order groups this randomness can be simply
equated with the private key.
Theorem 3. Protocol OKAPE realizes the UC aPAKE functionality FaPAKE-cEA
if the AKE protocol realizes functionality FotkAKE, assuming that prf is a secure
PRF and IC∗is an ideal cipher over the space of otkAKE ephemeral public keys.
Functionality FaPAKE-cEA is a standard UC aPAKE functionality extended
by client-to-server entity authentication. The functionality FaPAKE-cEA we use is
a modiﬁcation of the UC aPAKE functionality given by [24], but with some
reﬁnements we adopt from [25]. We include this functionality in Appendix A.
We provide an abridged version of the proof of Theorem 3 in Appendix B.
It describes our simulation strategy and contains the formal deﬁnition of our
two-part simulator. For a full version, including the intermediary games and
(negligible) bounds between the real and ideal-world interaction, we refer the
reader to the full proof in the Appendix of [23].
4
Protocol aEKE: Asymmetric PAKE Construction #2
In Fig. 6 we present an asymmetric PAKE protocol that we name asymmetric
encrypted key exchange (aEKE). It is a close variant of the otkAKE-to-aPAKE
compiler OKAPE described in Fig. 5 in Sect. 3. The password ﬁle stored by the
server also contains client’s public key A and a password hash h (which are now
split into two values h0, h1), the server again picks a one-time-key B and sends
it over to the client IC-encrypted under the partial password hash h0, the client

Asymmetric PAKE with Low Computation and Communication
143
Building blocks: (1) one-time-key Authenticated Key Exchange otkAKE, with
a single message ﬂow; (2) ideal cipher (IC∗.E, IC∗.D) on the space X0 = PK of
otkAKE public keys; (3) RO hash function H : {0, 1}∗→({0, 1}κ)3; (4) ideal
cipher IC1 on the space X1 = M of otkAKE messages
Password File Initialization on S’s input (StorePwdFile, uid, pw):
S sets (h0, h1, a) ←H(S, uid, pw), generates AKE public key A corresponding to
a, stores ﬁle[uid, S] ←(A, h0, h1), and discards all other values
C on (CltSession, sid, S, uid, pw)
S on (SvrSession, sid, C, uid)
(h0, h1, a) ←H(S, uid, pw
(
)
A, h0, h1) ←ﬁle[uid, S]
B ←IC∗.D(h0, e)
e = IC∗.E(h0, B)
(b, B) ←Key.Gen
(h1, (sid, S, cl, a, B))
(h1, (sid, C, sr, b, A))
ICEIC1(otkAKE)
kcl
ksr
output kcl
output ksr
Fig. 6. Protocol aEKE: EKE-style compiler from key-hiding otkAKE to aPAKE
derives its private key a via a password hash as well, and the client and server
perform otkAKE on the same respective inputs (a, B) and (b, A).
However, the two compilers diﬀer in three important aspects: First, subpro-
tocol otkAKE is not executed as a black box, but it is “IC-encrypted” using the
second part h1 of the password hash as the key. We describe what IC-encrypted
protocol is more formally below, but intuitively an IC-encrypted protocol Π
means that the two parties execute the protocol Π but they use the ideal cipher
to encrypt each outgoing message and decrypt each incoming message. The sec-
ond diﬀerence is that the protocol no longer needs C-to-S key conﬁrmation for its
security, as was required by protocol OKAPE, which allows for further reduction
of round complexity in concrete instantiations.
Lastly, we eliminate the salt value s from the input of the password hash.
This last change is done chieﬂy so that our concrete instantiation of this compiler
produces a protocol which requires only a single simultaneous ﬂow between the
two parties. This will be true as long as the otkAKE subprotocol involves only
one message, from C to S, and moreover this message can be generated prior to
client learning input B which C derives from the envelope received from S. Note
that this is true for our two otkAKE instantiations, namely one-pass HMQV and
2DH. Note that the protocol can be salted in a generic way, i.e. by S storing a
salt and sending it to C before the protocol starts, but this would add a S-to-C
round of interaction to the protocol (in particular C will need the salt value to

144
B. F. Dos Santos et al.
generate h1 and encrypt its protocol message under it), at which point aEKE
would loose its round-complexity advantage over OKAPE.
In Fig. 6, and in the security analysis of protocol aEKE, we assume a restricted
case of a single-ﬂow (C-to-S) realization of subprotocol otkAKE. We believe that
the compiler works for multi-round otkAKE subprotocols as well, but dropping
this restriction would make the security argument signiﬁcantly more complex
since our security argument cannot treat the otkAKE subprotocol entirely as a
black box, and must explicitly process ideal cipher encryption and decryption of
each message in the underlying otkAKE subprotocol.
We stress that, as described in the introduction, even though we drop salting
in aEKE our functionality requires that oﬄine password tests correspond to a
unique choice of pair (S, uid), and we enforce this by setting the password hash
as H(S, uid, pw).
The Ideal-Cipher-Encrypted Protocol Compiler. The IC-encrypted proto-
col compiler, denoted ICE, takes an ideal cipher IC and any two-party protocol
Π and creates a new protocol Π′ = ICEIC(Π), which proceeds by running the
original protocol Π and encrypting each of its outgoing messages using the ideal
cipher IC and decrypting any incoming messages using the same cipher. More
speciﬁcally, the input of P to protocol Π′ is x′ = (k, x) where k is a key of an
ideal cipher IC and x is P’s input in protocol Π. P then runs protocol Π on
x, and whenever Π creates an outgoing message msgout then P encrypts it as
ciphout ←IC.E(k, msgout) and sends out ciphertext ciphout instead of the original
message msgout. Because P’s counterparty is assumed to follow the same proto-
col, party P parses its incoming message as a ciphertext ciphin, decrypts it as
msgin ←IC.D(k, ciphin), and passes msgin as an incoming message to protocol Π.
Whenever Π terminates with some output this is also the output of protocol Π′.
Observe that the ICE compiler generalizes the Encrypted Key Exchange
(EKE) construction of Bellovin and Meritt [7]. The EKE protocol can be seen
as protocol EKE = ICEIC(KE), where KE is an unauthenticated Key Exchange,
and the password (or its hash) is used as the ideal cipher key. Protocol aEKE is
created using exactly the same compiler but applied to otkAKE instead of KE,
and it results in asymmetric PAKE instead of symmetric PAKE.
Below we deﬁne random-transcript property for single-ﬂow protocol Π.
Clearly both 2DH and one-pass HMQV satisfy this property.
Deﬁnition 1 [random transcript single-ﬂow protocol]. Let M be the mes-
sage space of a single-ﬂow protocol Π. We say that protocol Π has a random
transcript property if for any input x of Π, the message m which Π generates
on x is indistinguishable from a message uniformly sampled from M, i.e. for any
PPT adversary A and any x, there is a negligible function negl such that:
|Pr[A(m0 ←Π(x)) = 1] −Pr[A(m1 ←R M) = 1]| ≤negl(κ)

Asymmetric PAKE with Low Computation and Communication
145
Theorem 4. Protocol aEKE realizes the UC aPAKE functionality FaPAKE if the
otkAKE protocol realizes functionality FotkAKE and (1) otkAKE protocol uses a
single client-to-server message, (2) otkAKE protocol has the random-transcript
property, (3) IC∗is an ideal cipher over message space of otkAKE public keys,
(4) IC1 is an ideal cipher over message space M of the single-ﬂow otkAKE.
Because of space constraints the proof of Theorem 4 is deferred to the full version
of the paper [23].
5
Concrete aPAKE Protocol Instantiations
We include two concrete aPAKE protocols we call OKAPE-HMQV and aEKE-
HMQV. Protocol OKAPE-HMQV, shown in Fig. 7, is an instantiation of protocol
OKAPE from Sect. 3 with one-pass-HMQV as the key-hiding otkAKE (shown in
Sect. 2.2). Protocol aEKE-HMQV, shown in Fig. 8, is an instantiation of aEKE
from Sect. 4 with the same one-pass-HMQV. Both of these protocols were shown
in a simpliﬁed form in Fig. 1 in the introduction, but here we show both protocols
with all details.
Building blocks: (1) group G of prime order p with generator g; (2) ideal cipher
(IC∗.E, IC∗.D) on space of G; (3) RO hash functions H, H , H
with ranges resp.
{0, 1}κ × Zp, Zp, and {0, 1}κ; (4) pseudorandom function prf.
Password File Initialization on S’s input (StorePwdFile, uid, pw):
S picks s ←R {0, 1}κ, sets (h, a) ←H(pw, s), S generates AKE public key A ←ga,
stores ﬁle[uid, S] ←(A, h, s), and discards all other values
C on (CltSession, sid, S, pw)
S on (SvrSession, sid, C, uid)
x ←R Zp, X ←gx
(A, h, s) ←ﬁle[uid, S]
(h, a) ←H(pw, s)
e = IC∗.E(h, B), s
b ←R Zp, B ←gb
B ←IC∗.D(h, e)
dC ←H (sid, C, S, X)
X
dS ←H (sid, C, S, X)
σC ←B x+dC·a
σS ←(X · AdS)b
kcl ←H (sid, C, S, X, σC)
ksr ←H (sid, C, S, X, σS)
τ ←prf(kcl, 1)
τ
Ksr ←⊥if τ = prf(ksr, 1)
Kcl ←prf(kcl, 0)
else Ksr ←prf(ksr, 0)
output Kcl
output Ksr
Fig. 7. OKAPE with one-pass-HMQV: concrete aPAKE protocol OKAPE-HMQV
Protocol OKAPE-HMQV has 2 ﬂows if the server initiates (and 3 if the
client does), while protocol aEKE-HMQV is non-interactive, i.e. each party can

146
B. F. Dos Santos et al.
Building blocks: (1) group G of prime order p with generator g; (2) ideal cipher
(IC∗.E, IC∗.D) on space of G; (3) RO hash functions H, H , H
with ranges resp.
({0, 1}κ)3, Zp, and {0, 1}κ
Password File Initialization on S’s input (StorePwdFile, uid, pw):
S sets (h1, h2, a) ←H(S, uid, pw), S generates AKE public key A ←ga, stores
ﬁle[uid, S] ←(A, h1, h2), and discards all other values
C on (CltSession, sid, S, uid, pw)
S on (SvrSession, sid, C, uid)
(h1, h2, a) ←H(S, uid, pw
(
)
A, h1, h2) ←ﬁle[uid, S]
x ←R Zp, X ←gx
b ←R Zp, B ←gb
f = IC∗.E(h2, X)
e = IC∗.E(h1, B)
B ←IC∗.D(h1, e)
X ←IC∗.D(h2, f )
dC ←H (sid, C, S, X)
dS ←H (sid, C, S, X)
σC ←B x+dC·a
σS ←(X · AdS)b
kcl ←H (sid, C, S, X, σC)
ksr ←H (sid, C, S, X, σS)
output kcl
output ksr
Fig. 8. aEKE with one-pass-HMQV: concrete aPAKE protocol aEKE-HMQV
send its message without waiting for the counterparty. Note that in both pro-
tocols each party uses only 1 ﬁxed-base exponentiation plus 1 variable-base
(multi)exponentiation. In OKAPE-HMQV each party performs one ideal cipher
operation: S performs encryption and C decryption, while in protocol aEKE-
HMQV each party performs 1 encryption and 1 decryption.
The communication costs are as in Diﬃe-Hellman key exchange, with one-
sided key conﬁrmation and a κ-bit salt value in the case of protocol OKAPE-
HMQV. (Recall that OKAPE is a salted aPAKE while aEKE is an unsalted
aPAKE.) Depending on the implementation of an Ideal Cipher encryption on
group G, the ciphertext e encrypting B, and in the case of aEKE-HMQV also
ciphertext f encrypting X, can introduce additional bandwidth overhead of Ω(κ)
bits, and they may also impose non-trivial computational costs on operations
IC∗.E and IC∗.D as well, see Sect. 6.
6
Curve Encodings and Ideal Cipher
Quasi Bijections. Protocols OKAPE and aEKE use an Ideal Cipher (IC) on
values related to a key-hiding otkAKE subprotocol with which these compiler
constructions are instantiated. These values are the server’s otkAKE one-time
public key B, and in the case of aEKE these are also otkAKE protocol messages.
However, since in Sect. 4 we restrict our claims about aEKE only to the case when

Asymmetric PAKE with Low Computation and Communication
147
subprotocol otkAKE is a single-ﬂow protocol, the IC encryption will be applied
only to the client’s single otkAKE message. In both instantiations of otkAKE we
exhibit, i.e. 2DH and one-pass HMQV shown in Sects. 2.1 and 2.2, the server’s
public key B is a group element and so is the client’ single protocol message X.
Hence we need the ideal cipher on a message space which is group G used in
these otkAKE instantiations.
We use the same methodology for implementing an ideal cipher on a group
as in [25]. We brieﬂy summarize it here and we refer for more details to [25].
We assume that we have an ideal cipher IC = (IC.E, IC.D) which works over
ﬁxed-length bitstrings, i.e. space {0, 1}n for some n.3 Then, an ideal cipher on
G can be implemented by encoding plaintext m ∈G as a bitstring of length
n, and then apply the ideal cipher IC to the resulting bitstring. The encoding
map : G →{0, 1}n must be injective, i.e. 1-1, so that there exists an (eﬃcient)
inverse map map−1 : {0, 1}n →G. The encoding must also be surjective (or
close) so that every bitstring decodes into a group element, so that e.g. if e is an
encryption of g ∈G under key k, the decryption of e under key k′ ̸= k returns
another element in G. If G is an elliptic curve then we only know examples
of randomized encodings which satisfy these properties. Formally we deﬁne a
randomized encoding which is close to a bijection as in [25]:
Deﬁnition 2 [25]. A randomized ε-quasi bijection map with domain A, ran-
domness space R = {0, 1}ρ and range B consists of two eﬃcient algorithms
map : A × R →B and map−1 : B →A with the following properties:
1. map−1 is deterministic and for all a ∈A, r ∈R, map−1(map(a, r)) = a;
2. map maps the uniform distribution on A × R to a distribution on B that is
(statistically) ε-close to uniform.
We say that map is a quasi bijection without specifying ε when it is an ε-quasi
bijection for negligible ε. Given such encoding a (randomized) ideal cipher IC∗=
(IC∗.E, IC∗.D) on G can be implemented as IC∗.E(k, m) = IC.E(k, map(m; r))
for random r and IC∗.D(k, c) = map−1(IC.D(k, c)). However, rather than deﬁne
a new notion of randomized ideal cipher, in protocols OKAPE and aEKE we
assume that the ideal cipher on G is implemented using the above construction
IC∗and we argue directly based on the properties of quasi-bijective encoding
map and the bitstring ideal cipher IC.
Elliptic Curve Encodings. There are many well-studied quasi-bijective encod-
ings for elliptic curves in the literature (cf. [9,14,22,40,42]). We brieﬂy introduce
two representative examples and refer to [25] for more details. The Elligator-
squared method [33,42] applies to most elliptic curves and implements quasi
bijection for the whole group G of prime order q. It encodes curve points m ∈G
as pair of ﬁeld elements (u, v) ∈Z2
q using a deterministic function f : Zq →G
s.t. map−1(u, v) = m iﬀm = f(u) + f(v). Since u, v are ﬁeld elements, a further
3 For n = 128 one can assume that e.g. AES is an ideal cipher, while for larger values
one has to use domain-extension techniques, e.g. [16,17,20,27] or direct construc-
tions, e.g. [5,10,11,18,19,21].

148
B. F. Dos Santos et al.
quasi bijection is needed to represent such pair as a bitstring unless q is close
to a power of 2. The performance of map−1 used in IC∗.D depends on function
f whose cost is typically dominated by 1 base-ﬁeld exponentiation, which costs
≈10–15% of a scalar multiplication (a.k.a. a “variable-base exponentiation” in
G). The randomized map map used in IC∗.E can cost e.g. 3 base-ﬁeld expo-
nentiations on some curves [42]. The Elligator2 method [9] is more restrictive,
and deﬁnes an injective mapping from half of the domain G to integer range
[0, (q −1)/2]. The advantages of Ellligator2 is that it uses a single ﬁeld ele-
ment to represent a group element (thus reducing bandwidth), and that both
directions of the map are very eﬃcient, each costing about 1 base-ﬁeld expo-
nentiation. The disadvantage is that message m ∈G (i.e. S’s message B or C’s
message X) has to be resampled until it lies in the Elligator2 domain.4 Finally, in
a recent work of McQuoid et al. [37] show a “one-time” variant of a randomized
ideal cipher on a group, called Programmable Once Public Function (POPF)
therein, which utilizes a single RO-indistinguishable hash onto group G in both
encryption and decryption directions, and as McQuoid et al. show suﬃces as a
replacement for an ideal cipher in the proof that EKE realizes UC PAKE func-
tionality [37]. Because of the similarities between our aPAKE’s and EKE, the
same POPF notion could suﬃce in the context of our aPAKEs as well, leading to
another method for instantiating the group ideal cipher IC∗, but we leave formal
veriﬁcation that this is the case to future work.
A
Universally Composable Asymmetric PAKE Model
We include for reference the UC aPAKE deﬁnition in the form of a functionality
FaPAKE, shown in Fig. 9. This functionality is largely as it was originally deﬁned
by Gentry, Mackenzie, and Ramzan [24], but it adopts few notational modiﬁca-
tions introduced by Gu et al. [25]. These include naming what amounts to user
accounts explicitly as uid instead of generic-sounding sid, using sid instead of ssid
as a session-identiﬁer for on-line authentication attempts, and using only pairs
(S, uid) to identify server password ﬁles and not (S, U, uid) tuples as in [24].
Because in this paper we diﬀerentiate between unsalted and (publicly) salted
aPAKE’s, an explicit support for unsalted aPAKE’s is reﬂected in aPAKE func-
tionality FaPAKE by introducing a slight modiﬁcation in the functionality of [25].
These modiﬁcations are highlighted in Fig. 9, and they all concern a client-side
usage of the user account ﬁeld uid. As we mention in the introduction, the round-
minimal protocol aEKE is unsalted, and to enforce the aPAKE contract deﬁned
by [24], which is that a single real-world oﬄine dictionary attack operation must
correspond not only to a single password guess but also to a unique user pass-
word ﬁle, identiﬁed by a unique pair (S, uid), the client must get as environ-
ment’s inputs both the server identiﬁer S and the user account identiﬁer uid.
4 We should note that a cost-saving implementation which walks through consecutive
values e.g. Xi = gx+i for i = 0, 1, ... to ﬁnd Xi which is the Elligator2 domain, and
encrypts that Xi under a password, would leak information about the password if
the adversary learns the length of this walk from timing information.

Asymmetric PAKE with Low Computation and Communication
149
Password Registration
– On (StorePwdFile, uid, pw) from S create record ﬁle, S, uid, pw
marked fresh.
Stealing Password Data
[these queries must be approved by the environment]
– On (StealPwdFile, S, uid) from A, if there is no record ﬁle, S, uid, pw , return
“no password ﬁle”. Otherwise mark this record compromised, and if there is a
record oﬄine, S, uid, pw
then send pw to A.
– On (OﬄineTestPwd, S, uid, pw ∗) from A, then do:
• If ∃record ﬁle, S, uid, pw
marked compromised, do the following:
If pw ∗= pw then return “correct guess” to A else return “wrong guess.”
• Else record oﬄine, S, uid, pw ∗
Password Authentication
– On (CltSession, sid, S, uid , pw) from C, if there is no record
sid, C, ...
then
save sid, C, S, uid , pw, cl marked fresh, send (CltSession, sid, C, S, uid ) to A.
– On (SvrSession, sid, C, uid) from S, if there is no record sid, S, ... then retrieve
record ﬁle, S, uid, pw , and if it exists then save sid, S, C, uid , pw, sr marked
fresh and send (SvrSession, sid, S, C, uid) to A.
Active Session Attacks
– On (TestPwd, sid, P, uid , pw ∗) from A, if ∃record
sid, P, P , uid , pw, role
marked fresh, then do: If pw ∗= pw then mark it compromised and return
“correct guess” to A; else mark it interrupted and return “wrong guess.”
– On (Impersonate, sid, C, S, uid) from A, if ∃record rec = sid, C, S, uid , pw, cl
marked fresh, then do: If ∃record
ﬁle, S, uid, pw
marked compromised then
mark rec compromised and return “correct guess” to A; else mark it interrupted
and return “wrong guess.”
Key Generation and Authentication
– On (NewKey, sid, P, K ∗) from A, if ∃record rec = sid, P, P , uid , pw, role not
marked completed, then do:
1. If rec is marked compromised set K ←K ∗;
2. Else if rec is fresh and there is record sid, P , P, uid , pw, role
for role =
role and FaPAKE sent (sid, K ) to P when this record was fresh, set K ←K ;
3. Else set K ←R {0, 1} .
Finally, mark rec as completed and send output (sid, K) to P.
Note: Modiﬁcations from FaPAKE deﬁned in [25] are marked like this . They
consist of assumping input uid in CltSession and TestPwd and enforcing uid-
equality between client and server sessions in NewKey processing.
Fig. 9. FaPAKE: asymmetric PAKE functionality adapted from [25]

150
B. F. Dos Santos et al.
Queries StorePwdFile from S, StealPwdFile or OﬄineTestPwd from A, CltSession
from C, SvrSession from S, and TestPwd or Impersonate from A, functionality
FaPAKE-cEA acts as FaPAKE of Figure 9, except it omits all parts marked uid (i.e. it
does not require uid input for C and does not enforce uid-equality for C and S).
Below we mark like this parts of NewKey processing which diﬀer from FaPAKE.
Key Generation and Authentication
– On (NewKey, sid, P, K ∗) from A, if there is a record rec = sid, P, P , pw, role
not marked completed, then do:
1. If rec is marked compromised set K ←K ∗;
2. Else if rec is fresh , role = sr, and there is record sid, P , P, pw, cl
s.t.
FaPAKE-cEA sent (sid, K ) to P when this record was fresh, set K ←K ;
3. Else if role = cl set K ←R {0, 1} , and if role = sr set K ←⊥.
Finally, mark rec as completed and send output (sid, K) to P.
Fig. 10. FaPAKE-cEA: asymmetric PAKE with explicit C-to-S authentication
This is reﬂected in including uid in the inputs to CltSession command in Fig. 9.
However, since the client now performs computation on a ﬁxed uid, honest client
and server sessions will not agree on the same output key unless they run not
only on the same password pw but also on the same uid. Hence the NewKey pro-
cessing now includes uid-equality enforcement. Finally, for the same reason, an
online password test TestPwd must specify the uid ﬁeld in addition to password
guess pw ∗.
Functionality FaPAKE currently allows both the server and the client sessions
to leak the account identiﬁer uid input to the adversary. The server-side leakage
of this information was inherent (although not immediate to observe) in the
original aPAKE functionality of [24], and it was adopted by subsequent works,
including e.g. [25,30]. Now, however, we also introduce client-side leakage of the
same information. The uid has to be transmitted from the client to the server
before the protocol starts, but it is not clear that the cryptographic protocol
should leak it. We leave plugging this leakage and/or verifying whether it is
necessary in known aPAKEs, including ours, to future work.
Client-to-Server Entity Authentication. Since our protocol OKAPE shown
includes client-to-server authentication (it is not optional, and the protocol is
insecure without it), it realizes an aPAKE functionality amended by client-to-
server entity authentication. We use FaPAKE-cEA to denote the variant of aPAKE
functionality with uni-directional client-to-server entity authentication, and we
include it in Fig. 10. Since protocol OKAPE is a salted aPAKE, it does not need
the uid input on the client side, so the FaPAKE-cEA functionality in Fig. 10 incor-
porates all the code of functionality FaPAKE but without the uid-related modiﬁca-
tions. To simplify NewKey processing functionality FaPAKE-cEA in Fig. 10 assumes
that the client party terminates ﬁrst, so if two honest parties are connected then
the client party computes its session key output ﬁrst, and it is always the server

Asymmetric PAKE with Low Computation and Communication
151
party which can potentially get the same key copied by the functionality. One
could deﬁne it more generally but we expect that in most aPAKE protocols
with unilateral client-to-server explicit authentication the server will indeed be
the last party to terminate.
B
Simulator for Proof of Theorem 3
Because of space constraints, we refer the reader to [23] for a complete proof
of Theorem 3, and provide here an abridged version containing only the overall
proof strategy and the description of the simulator.
To prove the theorem we need to construct a simulator, denoted SIM, such
that the environment’s view of the real-world security game, i.e. an interaction
between the adversary A (whom we consider as a subprocedure of the environ-
ment Z) and honest parties following protocol OKAPE, is indistinguishable from
the environment’s view in the ideal-world interaction between A, SIM, and the
functionality FaPAKE-cEA.
Z
C/S
A
OKAPE
IC, H
(e,s)
otkAKE
Z
¯C/¯S
FaPAKE-cEA
A
SIM pt.2
SIM pt.1
SIMAKE
(e,s)
FotkAKE
otkAKE
IC, H
Fig. 11. Real-world (left) vs. simulation (right) for protocol OKAPE
Simulator Construction. We show an overview of our simulation strategy in
Fig 11, which gives the top-level view of the real world execution compared to
the ideal world execution which involves the simulator SIM shown in Figs. 12 and
13 as well as the simulator SIMAKE for the otkAKE subprotocol. The description
of simulator SIM is split into two parts as follows: Fig. 12 contains the SIM pt.1
part of the diagram in Fig 11, i.e. it deals with adversary’s ideal cipher and hash
queries, and in addition with the compromise of password ﬁles. Figure 13 contains
the SIM pt.2 part of the diagram in Fig 11 dealing with on-line aPAKE sessions.
We rely on the fact that protocol otkAKE realizes functionality FotkAKE, so we can
assume that there exists a simulator SIMAKE which exhibits this UC-security of

152
B. F. Dos Santos et al.
otkAKE. Our simulator SIM uses simulator SIMAKE as a sub-procedure. Namely,
SIM hands over to SIMAKE the simulation of all C-side and S-side AKE instances
where parties run on either honestly generated or adversarial AKE keys. SIM
employs SIMAKE to generate such keys - in H queries, password ﬁle compromise
and in IC decryption queries - see Fig. 12, and then it hands oﬀto SIMAKE the
handling of all AKE instances that run on such keys, see Fig. 13.
Initialization
Initialize simulator SIMAKE, empty tables TIC and TH, empty lists PK, CPK
Notation: Th
IC.X = {x | ∃y (h, x , y) ∈TIC}, Th
IC.Y = {y | ∃x (h, x , y) ∈TIC}.
Convention: First call to SvrSession or StealPwdFile for (S, uid) sets suid
S
←R {0, 1}κ.
On query (pw, s) to random oracle H
send back (h, a) if
(pw, s), (h, a)
TH, otherwise do:
1. If s = suid
S
for all (S, uid) then h ←R {0, 1}κ, init. key A via (Init, clts, cl) call
to SIMAKE, send (Compromise, A) to SIMAKE, deﬁne a as SIMAKE’s response,
add A to CPK
2. If s = suid
S
for some (S, uid) send (OﬄineTestPwd, S, uid, pw) to FaPAKE-cEA and:
(a) if FaPAKE-cEA sends “correct guess” then set A ←Auid
S
and h ←huid
S
(b) else inititalize key A via call (Init, clts, cl) to SIMAKE, add A to PK, pick
h ←{0, 1}κ
In either case send (Compromise, A) to SIMAKE, deﬁne a as SIMAKE’s response,
add A to CPK, set infouid
S (pw) ←(A, h)
In all cases add (pw, s), (h, a) to TH and send back (h, a)
Ideal Cipher IC queries
– On query (h, x ) to IC.E, send back y if (h, x , y) ∈TIC, otherwise pick y ←R
Y \ Th
IC.Y , add (h, x , y) to TIC, and send back y
– On query (h, y) to IC.D, send back x if (h, x , y) ∈TIC. Otherwise if there
exists (S, uid) and (A, pw) such that y = esid
S,uid and infouid
S (pw) = (A, h) then
set id = S, else set id = null. Initialize key B via call (Init, id, sr) to SIMAKE
and add B to PK. Set x ←R map(B), add (h, x , y) to TIC and send back x
Stealing Password Data
On Z’s permission to do so send (StealPwdFile, S, uid) to FaPAKE-cEA. If FaPAKE-cEA
sends “no password ﬁle,” pass it to A, otherwise do the following:
1. if FaPAKE-cEA returns pw, set (A, h) ←infouid
S (pw)
2. else init. A via call (Init, clts, cl) to SIMAKE, add A to PK, pick h ←{0, 1}κ
Set (Auid
S , huid
S ) ←(A, h), return ﬁle[uid, S] ←(Auid
S , huid
S , suid
S ) to A.
Fig. 12. Simulator SIM showing that protocol OKAPEFaPAKE-cEA: part 1

Asymmetric PAKE with Low Computation and Communication
153
Starting AKE sessions
On (SvrSession, sid, S, C, uid) from FaPAKE-cEA, initialize random function Rsid
S
:
({0, 1}∗)3 →{0, 1}κ, pick esid
S,uid ←R Y , set ﬂag(Ssid) ←hbc, send (esid
S,uid, suid
S ) to
A as a message from Ssid, and send (NewSession, sid, S, C, sr) to SIMAKE
On (CltSession, sid, C, S) from FaPAKE-cEA and message (e , s ) sent by A to Csid,
initialize random function Rsid
C : ({0, 1}∗)3 →{0, 1}κ, and:
1. If ∃uid s.t. (e , s ) = (esid
S,uid, suid
S ), set ﬂag(Csid) ←hbcuid
S , go to 5.
2. If ∃x , uid s.t. s
= suid
S
and e
was output by IC.E on (huid
S , x ), send
(Impersonate, sid, C, S, uid) to FaPAKE-cEA and:
(a) If FaPAKE-cEA returns “correct guess”, ﬂag(Csid) ←(actuid
S , Auid
S , map−1(x ))
(b) If it returns “wrong guess”, set ﬂag(Csid) ←rnd.
Either case, go to 5.
3. If ∃(x , h, a, pw) s.t. e was output by IC.E on (h, x ) and (pw, s ), (h, a)
TH
(SIM aborts if tuple not unique), send (TestPwd, sid, C, pw) to FaPAKE-cEA and:
(a) If FaPAKE-cEA returns “correct guess”, ﬂag(Csid) ←(actuid
S , A, map−1(x ))
where A is the public key generated from a.
(b) If it returns “wrong guess”, set ﬂag(Csid) ←rnd.
Either case, go to 5.
4. In all other cases set ﬂag(Csid) ←rnd, go to 5.
5. Send (NewSession, sid, C, S, cl) to SIMAKE
Responding to SIMAKE messages to FotkAKE emulated by SIM
SIM passes otkAKE protocol messages between SIMAKE and A, but when SIMAKE
outputs queries to (what SIMAKE thinks is) FotkAKE, SIM reacts as follows:
If SIMAKE outputs (Interfere, sid, S) set ﬂag(Ssid) ←act
If SIMAKE outputs (Interfere, sid, C) and ﬂag(Csid) = hbcuid
S
then set ﬂag(Csid) ←rnd
If SIMAKE outputs (NewKey, sid, C, α):
1. If ﬂag(Csid) = (actuid
S , A, B) then k ←Rsid
C (A, B, α), output τ ←prf(k, 1) and
send (NewKey, sid, C, prf(k, 0)) to FaPAKE-cEA
2. Else output τ ←R {0, 1}κ and send (NewKey, sid, C, ⊥) to FaPAKE-cEA
If SIMAKE outputs (NewKey, sid, S, α) and A sends τ to Ssid:
1. If ﬂag(Ssid) = hbc and τ was generated by SIM for Csid s.t. ﬂag(Csid) = hbcuid
S ,
then send (NewKey, sid, S, ⊥) to FaPAKE-cEA
2. If ﬂag(Ssid) = act and ∃(pw, B) s.t. τ = prf(k,1) for k = Rsid
S (B, A, α) where
(A, h) = infouid
S (pw) and (h, map(B), esid
S,uid) ∈TIC (SIM aborts if tuple not
unique), send (TestPwd, sid, S, pw) and (NewKey, sid, S, prf(k, 0)) to FaPAKE-cEA
3. In any other case send (TestPwd, sid, S, ⊥) and (NewKey, sid, S, ⊥) to FaPAKE-cEA
If SIMAKE outputs (SessionKey, sid, P, pk, pk , α):
If pk
(PK \ CPK) send Rsid
P (pk, pk , α) to A
Fig. 13. Simulator SIM showing that protocol OKAPE realizes FaPAKE-cEA: part 2

154
B. F. Dos Santos et al.
References
1. Facebook stored hundreds of millions of passwords in plain text. https://
www.theverge.com/2019/3/21/18275837/facebook-plain-text-password-storage-
hundreds-millions-users
2. Google stored some passwords in plain text for fourteen years. https://www.
theverge.com/2019/5/21/18634842/google-passwords-plain-text-g-suite-fourteen-
years
3. Abdalla, M., Barbosa, M., Bradley, T., Jarecki, S., Katz, J., Xu, J.: Universally
composable relaxed password authenticated key exchange. In: Micciancio, D., Ris-
tenpart, T. (eds.) CRYPTO 2020. LNCS, vol. 12170, pp. 278–307. Springer, Cham
(2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-56784-2 10
4. Abdalla, M., Pointcheval, D.: Simple password-based encrypted key exchange pro-
tocols. In: Menezes, A. (ed.) CT-RSA 2005. LNCS, vol. 3376, pp. 191–208. Springer,
Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-30574-3 14
5. Andreeva, E., Bogdanov, A., Dodis, Y., Mennink, B., Steinberger, J.P.: On the
indiﬀerentiability of key-alternating ciphers. In: Canetti, R., Garay, J.A. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2013. LNCS, vol. 8042, pp. 531–550. Springer, Heidelberg (2013).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-40041-4 29
6. Bellare, M., Pointcheval, D., Rogaway, P.: Authenticated key exchange secure
against dictionary attacks. In: Preneel, B. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2000. LNCS, vol.
1807, pp. 139–155. Springer, Heidelberg (2000). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-
45539-6 11
7. Bellovin, S.M., Merritt, M.: Encrypted key exchange: password-based protocols
secure against dictionary attacks. In: IEEE Computer Society Symposium on
Research in Security and Privacy - S&P 1992, pp. 72–84. IEEE (1992)
8. Benhamouda, F., Pointcheval, D.: Veriﬁer-based password-authenticated key
exchange: new models and constructions. IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive
2013:833 (2013)
9. Bernstein, D.J., Hamburg, M., Krasnova, A., Lange, T.: Elligator: elliptic-curve
points indistinguishable from uniform random strings. In: ACM Conference on
Computer and Communications Security - CCS 2013 (2013)
10. Bernstein, D.J., et al.: Gimli: a cross-platform permutation. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Report 2017/630 (2017). http://eprint.iacr.org/2017/630
11. Bertoni, G., Daemen, J., Peeters, M., Van Assche, G.: Keccak. In: Johansson, T.,
Nguyen, P.Q. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2013. LNCS, vol. 7881, pp. 313–314. Springer,
Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-38348-9 19
12. Boyko, V., MacKenzie, P., Patel, S.: Provably secure password-authenticated key
exchange using Diﬃe-Hellman. In: Preneel, B. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2000. LNCS,
vol. 1807, pp. 156–171. Springer, Heidelberg (2000). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-
540-45539-6 12
13. Bradley, T., Jarecki, S., Xu, J.: Strong asymmetric PAKE based on trapdoor
CKEM. In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio, D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019. LNCS, vol. 11694,
pp. 798–825. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-26954-
8 26
14. Brier, E., Coron, J.-S., Icart, T., Madore, D., Randriam, H., Tibouchi, M.: Eﬃcient
indiﬀerentiable hashing into ordinary elliptic curves. In: Rabin, T. (ed.) CRYPTO
2010. LNCS, vol. 6223, pp. 237–254. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-642-14623-7 13

Asymmetric PAKE with Low Computation and Communication
155
15. Canetti, R., Halevi, S., Katz, J., Lindell, Y., MacKenzie, P.: Universally com-
posable password-based key exchange. In: Cramer, R. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2005.
LNCS, vol. 3494, pp. 404–421. Springer, Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.org/10.
1007/11426639 24
16. Coron, J.-S., Dodis, Y., Mandal, A., Seurin, Y.: A domain extender for the ideal
cipher. In: Micciancio, D. (ed.) TCC 2010. LNCS, vol. 5978, pp. 273–289. Springer,
Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-11799-2 17
17. Dachman-Soled, D., Katz, J., Thiruvengadam, A.: 10-round Feistel is indiﬀeren-
tiable from an ideal cipher. In: Fischlin, M., Coron, J.-S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT
2016. LNCS, vol. 9666, pp. 649–678. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-662-49896-5 23
18. Daemen, J., Hoﬀert, S., Assche, G.V., Keer, R.V.: The design of Xoodoo and
Xooﬀf. 2018, 1–38 (2018)
19. Dai, Y., Seurin, Y., Steinberger, J., Thiruvengadam, A.: Indiﬀerentiability of iter-
ated Even-Mansour ciphers with non-idealized key-schedules: ﬁve rounds are nec-
essary and suﬃcient. In: Katz, J., Shacham, H. (eds.) CRYPTO 2017. LNCS, vol.
10403, pp. 524–555. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
63697-9 18
20. Dai, Y., Steinberger, J.: Indiﬀerentiability of 8-round Feistel networks. In: Rob-
shaw, M., Katz, J. (eds.) CRYPTO 2016. LNCS, vol. 9814, pp. 95–120. Springer,
Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53018-4 4
21. Dodis, Y., Stam, M., Steinberger, J., Liu, T.: Indiﬀerentiability of confusion-
diﬀusion networks. In: Fischlin, M., Coron, J.-S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2016. LNCS,
vol. 9666, pp. 679–704. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-662-49896-5 24
22. Fouque, P.-A., Joux, A., Tibouchi, M.: Injective encodings to elliptic curves. In:
Boyd, C., Simpson, L. (eds.) ACISP 2013. LNCS, vol. 7959, pp. 203–218. Springer,
Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-39059-3 14
23. Freitas Dos Santos, B., Gu, Y., Jarecki, S., Krawczyk, H.: Asymmetric PAKE
with low computation and communication. IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive, 2022
(2022). https://ia.cr/2022
24. Gentry, C., MacKenzie, P., Ramzan, Z.: A method for making password-based
key exchange resilient to server compromise. In: Dwork, C. (ed.) CRYPTO 2006.
LNCS, vol. 4117, pp. 142–159. Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/10.
1007/11818175 9
25. Gu, Y., Jarecki, S., Krawczyk, H.: KHAPE: asymmetric PAKE from key-hiding key
exchange. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) CRYPTO 2021. LNCS, vol. 12828, pp.
701–730. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84259-8 24,
https://ia.cr/2021/873
26. Halevi, S., Krawczyk, H.: One-pass HMQV and asymmetric key-wrapping. In:
Catalano, D., Fazio, N., Gennaro, R., Nicolosi, A. (eds.) PKC 2011. LNCS, vol.
6571, pp. 317–334. Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
642-19379-8 20
27. Holenstein, T., K¨unzler, R., Tessaro, S.: The equivalence of the random oracle
model and the ideal cipher model, revisited. In: STOC 2011 (2011)
28. Hwang, J.Y., Jarecki, S., Kwon, T., Lee, J., Shin, J.S., Xu, J.: Round-reduced mod-
ular construction of asymmetric password-authenticated key exchange. In: Cata-
lano, D., De Prisco, R. (eds.) SCN 2018. LNCS, vol. 11035, pp. 485–504. Springer,
Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-98113-0 26

156
B. F. Dos Santos et al.
29. Jablon, D.P.: Extended password key exchange protocols immune to dictionary
attacks. In: 6th IEEE International Workshops on Enabling Technologies: Infras-
tructure for Collaborative Enterprises (WETICE 1997), pp. 248–255, Cambridge,
MA, USA, 18–20 June 1997. IEEE Computer Society (1997)
30. Jarecki, S., Krawczyk, H., Xu, J.: OPAQUE: an asymmetric PAKE protocol secure
against pre-computation attacks. In: Nielsen, J.B., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EURO-
CRYPT 2018. LNCS, vol. 10822, pp. 456–486. Springer, Cham (2018). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-78372-7 15
31. Jarecki, S., Krawczyk, H., Xu, J.: On the (in)security of the Diﬃe-Hellman oblivi-
ous PRF with multiplicative blinding. In: Garay, J.A. (ed.) PKC 2021. LNCS, vol.
12711, pp. 380–409. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
75248-4 14
32. Jutla, C.S., Roy, A.: Smooth NIZK arguments. In: Beimel, A., Dziembowski, S.
(eds.) TCC 2018. LNCS, vol. 11239, pp. 235–262. Springer, Cham (2018). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-03807-6 9
33. Kim, T., Tibouchi, M.: Invalid curve attacks in a GLS setting. In: Tanaka, K.,
Suga, Y. (eds.) IWSEC 2015. LNCS, vol. 9241, pp. 41–55. Springer, Cham (2015).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-22425-1 3
34. Krawczyk, H.: SKEME: a versatile secure key exchange mechanism for internet.
In: 1996 Internet Society Symposium on Network and Distributed System Security
(NDSS), pp. 114–127 (1996)
35. Krawczyk, H.: HMQV: a high-performance secure Diﬃe-Hellman protocol. In:
Shoup, V. (ed.) CRYPTO 2005. LNCS, vol. 3621, pp. 546–566. Springer, Hei-
delberg (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/11535218 33
36. Marlinspike, M., Perrin, T.: The X3DH key agreement protocol (2016). https://
signal.org/docs/speciﬁcations/x3dh/
37. McQuoid, I., Rosulek, M., Roy, L.: Minimal symmetric PAKE and 1-out-of-n OT
from programmable-once public functions. In: Ligatti, J., Ou, X., Katz, J., Vigna,
G. (eds.) CCS 2020: 2020 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Commu-
nications Security, Virtual Event, USA, 9–13 November 2020. https://eprint.iacr.
org/2020/1043
38. Pointcheval, D., Wang, G.: VTBPEKE: veriﬁer-based two-basis password expo-
nential key exchange. In: ASIACCS 2017, pp. 301–312. ACM Press (2017)
39. Schmidt, J.: Requirements for password-authenticated key agreement (PAKE)
schemes, April 2017. https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8125
40. Shallue, A., van de Woestijne, C.E.: Construction of rational points on elliptic
curves over ﬁnite ﬁelds. In: Hess, F., Pauli, S., Pohst, M. (eds.) ANTS 2006.
LNCS, vol. 4076, pp. 510–524. Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/10.
1007/11792086 36
41. Shoup, V.: Security analysis of SPAKE2+. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch. 2020, 313
(2020)
42. Tibouchi, M.: Elligator squared: uniform points on elliptic curves of prime order as
uniform random strings. In: Christin, N., Safavi-Naini, R. (eds.) FC 2014. LNCS,
vol. 8437, pp. 139–156. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-662-45472-5 10

