Certiﬁed Everlasting Secure
Collusion-Resistant Functional Encryption,
and More
Taiga Hiroka1, Fuyuki Kitagawa2,3, Tomoyuki Morimae1, Ryo Nishimaki2,3(B),
Tapas Pal4, and Takashi Yamakawa1,2,3
1 Yukawa Institute for Theoretical Physics, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan
2 NTT Social Informatics Laboratories, Tokyo, Japan
ryo.nishimaki@ntt.com
3 NTT Research Center for Theoretical Quantum Information, Atsugi, Japan
4 Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, KASTEL Security Research Labs,
Karlsruhe, Germany
Abstract. We study certiﬁed everlasting secure functional encryption
(FE) and many other cryptographic primitives in this work. Certiﬁed
everlasting security roughly means the following. A receiver possessing
a quantum cryptographic object (such as ciphertext) can issue a cer-
tiﬁcate showing that the receiver has deleted the cryptographic object
and information included in the object (such as plaintext) was lost. If
the certiﬁcate is valid, the security is guaranteed even if the receiver
becomes computationally unbounded after the deletion. Many crypto-
graphic primitives are known to be impossible (or unlikely) to have
information-theoretical security even in the quantum world. Hence, cer-
tiﬁed everlasting security is a nice compromise (intrinsic to quantum).
In this work, we deﬁne certiﬁed everlasting secure versions of FE,
compute-and-compare obfuscation, predicate encryption (PE), secret-
key encryption (SKE), public-key encryption (PKE), receiver non-
committing encryption (RNCE), and garbled circuits. We also present
the following constructions:
– Adaptively certiﬁed everlasting secure collusion-resistant public-key
FE for all polynomial-size circuits from indistinguishability obfusca-
tion and one-way functions.
– Adaptively certiﬁed everlasting secure bounded collusion-resistant
public-key FE for NC1 circuits from standard PKE.
– Certiﬁed everlasting secure compute-and-compare obfuscation from
standard fully homomorphic encryption and standard compute-and-
compare obfuscation.
– Adaptively
(resp.,
selectively)
certiﬁed
everlasting
secure
PE
from standard adaptively (resp., selectively) secure attribute-based
encryption and certiﬁed everlasting secure compute-and-compare
obfuscation.
Technical details are omitted due to page limitations in this version. Please, see the full
version [HKM+23] for the technical details.
T. Pal—The research was conducted while the author was a postdoc at NTT Social
Informatics Laboratories.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2024
M. Joye and G. Leander (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2024, LNCS 14653, pp. 434–456, 2024.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-58734-4_15

Certiﬁed Everlasting Secure Collusion-Resistant
435
– Certiﬁed everlasting secure SKE and PKE from standard SKE and
PKE, respectively.
– Cetiﬁed everlasting secure RNCE from standard PKE.
– Cetiﬁed everlasting secure garbled circuits from standard SKE.
1
Introduction
1.1
Background
Computational security in cryptography relies on assumptions that some prob-
lems are hard to solve. However, such assumptions could be broken in the
future when revolutionary novel algorithms are discovered, or computing devices
are drastically improved. One solution to the problem of computational secu-
rity is to construct information-theoretically-secure protocols. However, many
cryptographic primitives are known to be impossible (or unlikely) to sat-
isfy information-theoretical security even in the quantum world [LC97,May97,
MW18].
Good compromises (intrinsic to quantum!) have been studied recently
[Unr15,BI20,KT20,HMNY21,HMNY22b,Por23]. In particular, certiﬁed ever-
lasting security, which was introduced in [HMNY22b] based on [Unr15,BI20],
achieves the following security: After receiving quantum-encrypted data, a
receiver can issue a certiﬁcate to prove that (s)he deleted its quantum-encrypted
data. If the certiﬁcate is valid, its security is guaranteed even if the receiver
becomes computationally unbounded later. A (private or public) veriﬁcation
key for certiﬁcates is also generated along with quantum-encrypted data. This
security notion is weaker than information-theoretical security since a malicious
receiver could refuse to issue a valid certiﬁcate. However, it is still a useful secu-
rity notion because, for example, a sender can penalize receivers who do not
issue valid certiﬁcates. In addition, certiﬁed everlasting security is an intrinsi-
cally quantum property because it implies information-theoretical security in the
classical world.1
Certiﬁed everlasting security can bypass the impossibility of information-
theoretical security. In fact, several cryptographic primitives have been
shown to have certiﬁed everlasting security, such as commitments and zero-
knowledge [HMNY22b]. An important open problem in this direction is
Which cryptographic primitives can have certiﬁed everlasting security?
Functional encryption (FE) is one of the most advanced cryptographic primi-
tives and achieves considerable ﬂexibility in controlling encrypted data [BSW11].
1 This is because a malicious receiver can copy the encrypted data freely. Hence, the
encrypted data must be secure against an unbounded malicious receiver at the point
when the receiver obtains the encrypted data. The same discussion does not go
through in the quantum world because even a malicious receiver cannot copy the
quantum-encrypted data due to the quantum no-cloning theorem.

436
T. Hiroka et al.
In FE, an owner of a master secret key MSK can generate a functional decryp-
tion key skf that hardwires a function f. When a ciphertext ctm of a mes-
sage m is decrypted by skf, we can obtain the value f(m), and no information
beyond f(m) is leaked. Information-theoretically secure FE is impossible, and
all known constructions are computationally secure [GVW12,GGH+16,AP20,
AV19,JLS21,JLS22]. A motivating application of FE is analyzing sensitive data
and computing new data from personal data without sacriﬁcing data privacy.
In this example, users must store their encrypted data on a remote server since
users delegate the computation. At some point, users might request the server to
“forget” their data (even if they are encrypted). European Union [GDP16] and
California [CCP18] adopted data deletion clauses in legal regulations for such
users. Encryption with certiﬁed deletion could be useful for implementing the
right to be forgotten. However, suppose that FE does not have certiﬁed everlast-
ing security. In that case, the rapid growth of computational power potentially
breaks the privacy of sensitive personal data (such as DNA) in the future. This
risk (“recalling” in the future) is great because descendants inherit DNA infor-
mation. Certiﬁed everlasting security is desirable for such practical applications
of FE.
Hence, we have the following open problem:
Is it possible to construct certiﬁed everlasting secure FE?
We note that certiﬁed everlasting secure FE is particularly useful compared to
certiﬁed everlasting secure public key encryption (PKE) (or more generally “all-
or-nothing encryption”2 [GMM17]) because it ensures security even against an
honest receiver who holds a decryption key. That is, we can ensure that a receiver
who holds a decryption key skf for a function f cannot learn more than f(m)
even if the receiver can run an unbounded-time computation after issuing a valid
certiﬁcate. In contrast, certiﬁed everlasting PKE does not ensure any security
against an honest receiver since the receiver can simply keep a copy of a plaintext
after honestly decrypting a ciphertext.
Another useful advanced cryptographic primitive is obfuscation for compute-
and-compare programs [WZ17] (a.k.a. lockable obfuscation [GKW17]). A
compute-and-compare
obfuscation
scheme
can
obfuscate
a
compute-and-
compare circuit parameterized by a polynomial-time computable circuit P
along with a lock value lock and a message m. The circuit takes an input
x and outputs m if P(x) = lock and ⊥otherwise. Point functions, conjunc-
tion with wild cards, plaintext checkers, and aﬃne testers are examples of
such circuits [GKW17,WZ17]. Hence, certiﬁed everlasting secure compute-and-
compare obfuscation achieves certiﬁed deletion for obfuscated programs in the
restricted class of functionalities. In addition, compute-and-compare obfusca-
tion has many cryptographic applications [GKW17,WZ17,CVW+18,FFMV23,
AYY22,AKYY23]. We can generically convert all-or-nothing encryption into
anonymous one via compute-and-compare obfuscation. In particular, we can
2 Such as identity-based encryption (IBE), attribute-based encryption (ABE), fully
homomorphic encryption (FHE), or witness encryption (WE).

Certiﬁed Everlasting Secure Collusion-Resistant
437
obtain predicate encryption (PE) [KSW08,GVW15] from ABE and compute-
and-compare obfuscation. PE is an attribute-hiding variant of ABE and an inter-
mediate primitive between ABE and FE. If we can achieve certiﬁed everlasting
secure compute-and-compare obfuscation, it is possible to achieve certiﬁed ever-
lasting secure PE (and anonymous IBE and PKE).
Hence, we have the following second open problem:
Is it possible to construct certiﬁed everlasting secure compute-and-compare
obfuscation?
1.2
Our Results
We solve the above questions in this work. Our contributions are as follows.
1. We formally deﬁne certiﬁed everlasting versions of many cryptographic prim-
itives: FE, compute-and-compare obfuscation, PE, secret-key encryption
(SKE), PKE, receiver non-committing encryption (RNCE), and a garbling
scheme.
2. We construct adaptively certiﬁed everlasting secure collusion-resistant public-
key FE for P/poly from indistinguishability obfuscation (IO) and one-way
functions (OWFs). We also construct adaptively certiﬁed everlasting secure
bounded collusion-resistant public-key FE for NC1 from standard PKE.
3. We construct certiﬁed everlasting secure compute-and-compare obfuscation
from standard FHE and standard compute-and-compare obfuscation. Both
building blocks can be instantiated with the learning with errors (LWE)
assumption. We also construct adaptively (resp., selectively) certiﬁed ever-
lasting secure PE from standard adaptively (resp., selectively) secure ABE
and certiﬁed everlasting secure compute-and-compare obfuscation.
4. To achieve adaptively certiﬁed everlasting secure bounded collusion-resistant
FE, we construct many certiﬁed everlasting secure cryptographic primitives:
– Two constructions of certiﬁed everlasting secure SKE from standard SKE.
An advantage of the ﬁrst construction is that the certiﬁcate is classi-
cal, but a disadvantage is that the security proof relies on the quantum
random oracle model (QROM) [BDF+11]. The security of the second
construction holds without relying on the QROM, but the certiﬁcate is
quantum.
– Two constructions of certiﬁed everlasting secure PKE with the same prop-
erties of the SKE constructions above from standard PKE.
– A construction of certiﬁed everlasting secure RNCE from certiﬁed ever-
lasting PKE.
– A construction of certiﬁed everlasting secure garbling scheme for P/poly
from certiﬁed everlasting SKE.
All our constructions are privately veriﬁable, so we must keep veriﬁcation keys
(for deletion certiﬁcate) secret. It is open to achieving certiﬁed everlasting secure
bounded collusion-resistant FE for P/poly from standard PKE.

438
T. Hiroka et al.
We introduce fascinating techniques to achieve certiﬁed everlasting secure
collusion-resistant FE and certiﬁed everlasting secure compute-and-compare
obfuscation. We developed an authentication technique for BB84 state to satisfy
both the functionality of FE and certiﬁed everlasting security. (See Sect. 2.1
for the detail.) This authentication technique for BB84 states is of independent
interest and we believe that it has further applications.3 We also developed a
deferred evaluation technique using dummy lock values to satisfy both the func-
tionality of compute-and-compare obfuscation and certiﬁed everlasting security.
(See Sect. 2.3 for the detail.)
1.3
Concurrent and Independent Work
Certiﬁed Everlasting Secure SKE and PKE. Recently, Bartusek and Khurana
concurrently and independently obtained similar results [BK23]. They introduce
a generic compiler that can convert several cryptographic primitives to certi-
ﬁed everlasting secure ones, such as PKE, ABE, FHE, WE, and timed-release
encryption. Their constructions via the generic compiler have the advantage
that the certiﬁcates are classical and no QROM is required. Our constructions
of certiﬁed everlasting SKE and PKE cannot achieve both: if the certiﬁcates are
classical, QROM is required, and if QROM is not used, the certiﬁcates have to
be quantum. We note that their certiﬁed everlasting SKE and PKE can be used
as building blocks of our RNCE, garbling, and bounded collusion-resistant FE
constructions instead of our SKE and PKE schemes.
While their work focuses on all-or-nothing encryption, our work presents
certiﬁed everlasting secure garbling and FE, which are not given in their work.
It is unclear how to apply their generic compiler to garbling and FE.
One might think that certiﬁed everlasting garbling can be constructed from
certiﬁed everlasting SKE, which is constructed from their generic compiler.
However, it is non-trivial whether certiﬁed everlasting garbling can be immedi-
ately constructed from certiﬁed everlasting SKE because garbling needs double-
encryption. (For details, see Sect. 2.2.)
Moreover, a direct application of their generic compiler to FE does not work
because of the following reason. If we directly apply their generic compiler to FE,
we have a ciphertext consisting of classical and quantum parts. The classical part
is the original FE ciphertext whose plaintext is m ⊕r with random r, and the
quantum part is random BB84 states whose computational basis states encode
r. The decryption key of the function f consists of functional decryption key skf
and the basis of the BB84 states. However, in this construction, a receiver with
the ciphertext and the decryption key cannot obtain f(m), because what the
receiver obtains is only f(m ⊕r) and r, which cannot recover f(m).
Bartusek-Khurana’s Results and Our Collusion-Resistant FE, PE, and Compute-
and-Compare Obfuscation.
While our certiﬁed everlasting secure bounded
3 Indeed, an application was found by Kitagawa, Nishimaki, and Yamakawa [KNY23].
See Sect. 1.4.

Certiﬁed Everlasting Secure Collusion-Resistant
439
collusion-resistant FE (and its building block SKE, PKE, garbling, and RNCE)
schemes are concurrent and independent work, our certiﬁed everlasting secure
collusion-resistant FE, PE, and compute-and-compare obfuscation schemes use
the certiﬁed everlasting lemma by Bartusek and Khurana4 Those three schemes
were added after the paper by Bartusek and Khurana was made public. Their
work does not consider FE, PE, and compute-and-compare obfuscation.
If we directly apply their generic compiler to PE, we cannot hide the attribute
part though we can hide the plaintext part. Even if we apply the same technique
to the attribute part, say, we also set the attribute to a ⊕r′ with random r′,
and put random BB84 states whose computational basis states encode r′ in a
ciphertext, the idea does not work. A receiver cannot obtain the plaintext even
if P(a) = 1 because the predicate computes P(a ⊕r′) instead of P(a), and the
correctness does not hold.
It is non-trivial whether we can obtain certiﬁed everlasting compute-and-
compare obfuscation by their framework for encryption with certiﬁed deletion
because we need to hide information about circuits while preserving the function-
ality. Savvy readers might think it may be possible by applying the framework
to the compute-and-compare obfuscation from circular insecure FHE by Klucz-
niak [Klu22]. However, we need compute-and-compare obfuscation to instantiate
circular insecure FHE. This is a circular argument.
Certiﬁed Everlasting Secure FE. Bartusek, Garg, Goyal, Khurana, Malavolta,
Raizes, and Roberts [BGG+23] concurrently and independently obtained adap-
tively certiﬁed everlasting secure collusion-resistant FE for P/poly from IO and
OWFs. They use subspace coset states [CLLZ21], while we use BB84 states
(with one-time signatures). Hence, the techniques are diﬀerent. Their scheme is
publicly veriﬁable thanks to the subspace coset state approach. Another tech-
nical diﬀerence is that they directly rely on adaptively secure multi-input FE
(MIFE) [GGG+14,GJO16] while we do not. Hence, their scheme incurs an addi-
tional sub-exponential loss (from IO to adaptively secure MIFE [GJO16]). Our
scheme uses selectively secure MIFE and does not incur sub-exponential loss. We
note that selectively secure MIFE and IO are equivalent without any security
loss [GGG+14]. They also present several certiﬁed everlasting secure primitives
that are not considered in our work. However, the results on RNCE, garbled
circuits, compute-and-compare obfuscation, and PE are unique to our work.
1.4
Subsequent Work
A subsequent work by Kitagawa, Nishimaki, and Yamakawa [KNY23] shows
another application of our authentication technique for BB84 states which we
4 This is because this paper is a major update version of the paper by Hiroka
et al. [HMNY22a] with new additional results (i.e., collusion-resistant FE, PE,
and compute-and-compare obfuscation). The content in the work by Hiroka et
al. [HMNY22a] is a concurrent and independent work of the work by Bartusek and
Khurana [BK23].

440
T. Hiroka et al.
develop for the construction of certiﬁed everlasting secure collusion-resistant FE.
Speciﬁcally, they use the technique to construct a generic compiler to add the
publicly veriﬁable deletion property for various kinds of cryptographic primitives
solely based on OWFs.
1.5
More on Related Works
Ciphertext Certiﬁed Deletion. Unruh [Unr15] introduced the concept of revoca-
ble quantum time-released encryption. In this primitive, a receiver possessing
quantum encrypted data can obtain its plaintext after a predetermined time T.
The sender can revoke the quantum encrypted data before time T. If the revo-
cation succeeds, the receiver cannot obtain the plaintext information even if its
computing power becomes unbounded.
Broadbent and Islam [BI20] constructed one-time SKE with certiﬁed dele-
tion. It is standard one-time SKE except that once the receiver issues a valid
classical certiﬁcate, the receiver cannot obtain the plaintext information even
if the receiver later becomes a computationally unbounded adversary. (See also
[KT20].)
Hiroka, Morimae, Nishimaki, and Yamakawa [HMNY21] constructed reusable
SKE, PKE, and ABE with certiﬁed deletion. These reusable SKE, PKE, and
ABE with certiﬁed deletion are standard reusable SKE, PKE, and ABE with
additional properties, respectively. Once the receiver issues a valid classical cer-
tiﬁcate, the receiver cannot obtain the plaintext information even if it obtains
some secret information (e.g., the master secret key of ABE). In these primitives,
the security holds against computationally bounded adversaries, unlike in this
work. Poremba [Por23] achieved FHE with certiﬁed deletion. In addition, certiﬁ-
cates for deletion are publicly veriﬁable in his construction. The security holds
against computationally bounded adversaries, unlike in this work. However, the
security of the construction relies on a strong conjecture that a particular hash
function is “strong Gaussian-collapsing”.
Hiroka, Morimae, Nishimaki, and Yamakawa [HMNY22b] constructed com-
mitments with statistical binding and certiﬁed everlasting hiding. From it, they
also constructed a certiﬁed everlasting zero-knowledge proof system for QMA
based on the zero-knowledge protocol of [BG20].
Key Certiﬁed Deletion. Kitagawa and Nishimaki [KN22] introduced the notion
of FE with secure key leasing, where functional decryption keys are quantum
states and we can generate certiﬁcates for deleting the keys. This can be seen as
certiﬁed deletion of keys and the dual of certiﬁed deletion of ciphertexts. They
achieved bounded collusion-resistant secret-key FE with secure key leasing for
P/poly from standard SKE.
Secure Software Leasing.
Ananth and La Place introduced the notion of
secure software leasing and achieved it for a sub-class of evasive functions
from public-key quantum money (need IO and OWFs) and the LWE assump-
tion [AL21]. Secure software leasing encode classical program into quantum

Certiﬁed Everlasting Secure Collusion-Resistant
441
program and has an explicit returning process. After a lessor veriﬁes that a
returned quantum program is valid, a lessee cannot run the leased program
anymore. Later, several secure software leasing schemes for a sub-class of eva-
sive functions or cryptographic functionalities (or its variant) with various
properties (such as classical communication, without assumptions) were pre-
sented [CMP20,BJL+21,KNY21,ALL+21]. None of them are certiﬁed everlast-
ing secure.
Compute-and-Compare Obfuscation, PE, and FE. There are tremendous amount
of previous works on standard FE and PE for general circuits and standard
compute-and-compare obfuscation. We focus on strongly related works. No previ-
ous work consider certiﬁed everlasting secure FE, PE, and compute-and-compare
obfuscation.
Gorbunov,
Vaikuntanathan,
and
Wee
[GVW12]
constructed
bounded
collusion-resistant adaptively secure PKFE for P/poly from standard PKE (and
either the DDH or LWE assumption). Later, Ananth and Vaikuntanathan
improved ciphertext size and assumptions. They constructed adaptively secure
bounded collusion-resistant PKFE for P/poly with optimal ciphertext size
from standard PKE. Garg, Gentry, Halevi, Raykova, and Sahai [GGH+16]
constructed selectively secure collusion-resistant PKFE for P/poly from IO
and OWFs. Waters [Wat15] constructed adaptively secure PKFE collusion-
resistant for P/poly from IO and OWFs. Ananth, Brakerski, Segev, and Vaikun-
tanathan [ABSV15] presented a transformation from selectively secure collusion-
resistant FE for P/poly to adaptively secure collusion-resistant FE for P/poly.
Jain, Lin, and Sahai constructed IO for P/poly from well-founded assump-
tions [JLS21,JLS22]. However, their constructions are not post-quantum secure.5
Gorbunov, Vaikuntanathan, and Wee [GVW15] constructed PE for P/poly
from the LWE assumption. Goyal, Koppula, and Waters [GKW17] and Wichs
and Zirdelis [WZ17] presented the notion of compute-and-compare obfuscation
(or lockable obfuscation) and achieved it from the LWE assumption. These two
works also presented a general transformation from ABE to PE using compute-
and-compare obfuscation. Kluczniak [Klu22] constructed compute-and-compare
obfuscation from circular insecure FHE. However, all known instantiations of
circular insecure FHE rely on compute-and-compare obfuscation.
1.6
Organization
If we put any self-contained part of the technical sections, it breaks the page lim-
itations. Hence, we omit all the technical details in this version. Please see the
full version [HKM+23] for the technical details. In Sec. 2.1, we provide a techni-
cal overview for constructing certiﬁed everlasting secure collusion-resistant FE.
In Sec. 2.2, we provide a technical overview for constructing certiﬁed everlast-
ing secure bounded collusion-resistant FE. In Sec. 2.3, we provide a technical
overview for constructing compute-and-compare obfuscation.
5 There are a few candidate constructions of post-quantum secure IO [BGMZ18,
CHVW19,AP20].

442
T. Hiroka et al.
2
Technical Overview
2.1
Technical Overview: Collusion-Resistant FE
Certiﬁed everlasting lemma of Bartusek and Khurana. Our construction is based
on a lemma which we call certiﬁed everlasting lemma proven by Bartusek and
Khurana [BK23], which is described as follows.
Suppose that {Z(m)}m∈{0,1}λ+1 is a family of distributions over classical
strings such that Z(m) is computatioally indistinguishable from Z(0λ+1) for
any m ∈{0, 1}λ+1. Intuitively, Z(m) can be regarded as an “encryption” of m.
For b ∈{0, 1} and a QPT adversary, let 
Z(b) be the following experiment:
– The experiment samples z, θ ←{0, 1}λ.
– The adversary takes |z⟩θ, and Z(θ, b ⊕
j:θj=0 zj) as input where zj is the
j-th bit of z and outputs a classical string z′ ∈{0, 1}λ and a quantum state
ρ.
– The experiment outputs ρ if z′
j = zj for all j such that θj = 1 and otherwise
outputs a special symbol ⊥.
Then for any QPT adversary, the trace distance between 
Z(0) and 
Z(1) is
negl(λ).6
The above lemma can be regarded as a generic compiler that adds certi-
ﬁed everlasting security. For example, we can construct a certiﬁed everlasting
PKE scheme from any plain PKE scheme as follows. For encrypting a mes-
sage b ∈{0, 1}, a ciphertext is set to be |z⟩θ, Enc(θ, b ⊕
j:θj=0 zj) where
z, θ ←{0, 1}λ and Enc is the encryption algorithm of the underlying PKE
scheme. Here, we omit an encryption key for simplicity and keep using a similar
convention throughout this subsection. The deletion algorithm simply measures
|z⟩θ in the Hadamard basis to output a certiﬁcate z′ and the veriﬁcation algo-
rithm checks if z′
j = zj for all j such that θj = 1. Then the above lemma implies
that an adversary’s internal state has no information about b conditioned on the
acceptance, which means certiﬁed everlasting security.
Public-slot FE. Unfortunately, their compiler does not directly work for FE in
general. The problem is that for a function f, there may not exist a function f ′
such that f(m) can be recovered from f ′(m ⊕
j:θj=0 zj, θ) and z. To overcome
this issue, we introduce an extension of FE which we call public-slot FE. In
public-slot FE, a decryption key is associated with a two-input function where
the ﬁrst and second inputs are referred to as the secret and public inputs, respec-
tively. Given a ciphertext of a message m and a decryption key for a function
f, one can compute f(m, pub) for all public inputs pub. Its security is deﬁned
similarly to that of plain FE except that the challenge message pair (m(0), m(1))
6 In fact, we need an “interactive version” of the lemma. We believe that such an
interactive version is implicitly proven and used in [BK23]. See the full version for
the formal statement of the lemma and a comparison with [BK23].

Certiﬁed Everlasting Secure Collusion-Resistant
443
must satisfy f(m(0), pub) = f(m(1), pub) for all key queries f and public inputs
pub.
We observe that many existing constructions of FE based on IO (e.g.,
[GGH+16]) can be naturally extended to public-slot FE. In particular, we show
that a simple modiﬁcation of the FE scheme of Ananth and Sahai [AS16] yields
an adaptively secure public-slot FE based on IO.
First Attempt. Our ﬁrst attempt to construct a collusion-resistant FE scheme
with certiﬁed everlasting security is as follows. Let Enc be an encryption algo-
rithm of a public-slot FE scheme. A ciphertext for a message m = m1 . . . mn ∈
{0, 1}n consists of {|zi⟩θi}i∈[n] and Enc(θ1, . . . , θn, β1, . . . , βn) where zi, θi ←
{0, 1}λ for i ∈[n], and βi := mi ⊕
j:θi,j=0 zi,j where zi,j is the j-th bit of zi. A
decryption key for a function f is a decryption key of the underlying public-slot
FE for a two-input function g[f] deﬁned as follows. The function g[f] takes a
secret input (θ1, . . . , θn, β1, . . . , βn) and a public input (b1, . . . , bn) ∈{0, 1}λ×n,
computes mi := βi ⊕
j:θi,j=0 bi,j for i ∈[n], and outputs f(m1, . . . , mn). To
see decryption correctness, we ﬁrst observe that if we ﬁrst measure {|zi⟩θi}i∈[n]
in the computational basis to get (b1, . . . , bn), then we have bi,j = zi,j for all i, j
such that θi,j = 0. Thus, if we run the decryption algorithm of the public-slot
FE scheme with the public input (b1, . . . , bn), then this yields the correct output
f(m1, . . . , mn). We remark that the decryption can actually be done without
measuring {|zi⟩θi}i∈[n] by running the above procedure coherently. The deletion
and veriﬁcation algorithms can be deﬁned similarly to those for the certiﬁed ever-
lasting PKE scheme as explained above: The deletion algorithm simply measures
{|zi⟩θi}i∈[n] in the Hadamard basis to get {z′
i}i∈[n] and the veriﬁcation algorithm
checks if z′
i,j = zi,j for all i, j such that θi,j = 1.
However, the above scheme is insecure. The problem is that public-slot FE
does not force an adversary to use a legitimate public input. By running the
decryption algorithm with diﬀerent public inputs many times, an adversary can
learn more than f(m1, ..., mn), which would even break security as a plain FE
scheme. For example, if the adversary uses a public input (b1, ..., b′
i, ..., bn) such
that b′
i is the same as bi except that b′
i,j ̸= bi,j for some j such that θi,j = 0,
then it can obtain f(m1, ..., 1 −mi, ..., mn).
Certify the Public Input by One-time Signatures. Our idea to resolve the above
issue is to certify {zi}i∈[n] in the quantum part of the ciphertext by using one-
time signatures. Speciﬁcally, the encryption algorithm ﬁrst generates a pair of a
veriﬁcation key vki,j and a signing key ski,j of a deterministic one-time signature
for i ∈[n] and j ∈[λ]. A ciphertext for a message m = m1 . . . mn ∈{0, 1}n con-
sists of {|ψi,j⟩}i∈[n],j∈[λ] and Enc({vki,j}i∈[n],j∈[λ], θ1, . . . , θn, β1, . . . , βn) where
zi, θi ←{0, 1}n for i ∈[n], βi := mi ⊕
j:θi,j=0 zj, and
|ψi,j⟩:=

|zi,j⟩|σi,j,zi,j⟩
if θi,j = 0
|0⟩|σi,j,0⟩+ (−1)zi,j|1⟩|σi,j,1⟩
if θi,j = 1
(1)

444
T. Hiroka et al.
where σi,j,b is a signature generated by using the signing key ski,j on the message
b ∈{0, 1}. Note that |ψi,j⟩is the state obtained by coherently running the
signing algorithm with the signing key ski,j on j-th qubit of |zi⟩θi. We modify
the function g[f] associated with the decryption key of the public-slot FE to
additionally check the validity of the signatures for bi,j for i, j such that θi,j = 0.
That is, g[f] takes a secret input ({vki,j}i∈[n],j∈[λ], θ1, . . . , θn, β1, . . . , βn) and a
public input (b1, . . . , bn, σ1, . . . , σn), parses σi = (σi,1, . . . , σi,λ) for each i ∈[n],
and checks if σi,j is a valid signature for bi,j (i.e., if σi,j = σi,j,bi,j) for all i, j
such that θi,j = 0. If it is not the case, it just outputs ⊥. Otherwise, it computes
mi := βi ⊕
j:θi,j=0 bi,j for i ∈[n] and outputs f(m1, . . . , mn). Note that |ψi,j⟩
contains the valid signature σi,j,zi,j on the message zi,j whenever θi,j = 0. Thus,
the decryption correctness is unaﬀected. In addition, if we measure |ψi,j⟩in the
Hadamard basis for i, j such that θi,j = 1, then the outcome (ci,j, di,j) satisﬁes
zi,j = ci,j ⊕di,j(σi,j,0 ⊕σi,j,1). By modifying the veriﬁcation algorithm to check
the above equality, the veriﬁcation correctness also holds. By the security of one-
time signatures, an adversary cannot arbitrarily modify the public input when
running the decryption algorithm of the underlying public-slot FE.
While this authentication technique seems to prevent obvious attacks, we
still do not know how to prove certiﬁed everlasting security of this scheme. In
particular, we want to rely on the certiﬁed everlasting lemma of [BK23]. However,
the lemma only enables us to perform bit-wise game hops. For example, if n = 3
and the challenge messages are 000 and 111, we would need to consider hybrid
experiments where the challenge message evolves as 000 →100 →110 →111.7
However, the restriction on the adversary only ensures f(000) = f(111) for
decryption key queries f and does not ensure, say, f(000) = f(100). Without
this condition, we cannot rely on the security of the underlying public-slot FE.
Hence, it seems impossible to prove indistinguishability between neighboring
intermediate hybrids.
Redundant Encoding. Our idea for resolving the above issue is to encode the mes-
sage in a redundant way so that there is a space for a “spare message”. Speciﬁcally,
we ﬁrst encode a message m = m1 . . . mn ∈{0, 1}n into a (2n + 1)-bit string
m1 . . . mn∥0n+1. The rest of the scheme is identical to that in the previous para-
graph, except that i’s range is [2n+1] instead of [n] and g[f] chooses which part to
use for deriving the output depending on the value of the (2n+1)-th bit. Specif-
ically, g[f] takes a secret input ({vki,j}i∈[2n+1],j∈[λ], θ1, . . . , θ2n+1, β1, . . . , β2n+1)
and a public input (b1, . . . , b2n+1, σ1, . . . , σ2n+1) and ﬁrst checks the validity of
the signatures on positions corresponding to i, j such that θi,j = 0 as before.
Then it computes mi := βi ⊕
j:θi,j=0 bi,j for i ∈[2n + 1], and outputs
7 Note that an FE scheme with 3-bit messages itself is trivial to construct from any
PKE scheme. We are considering this toy example just to explain a technical diﬃ-
culty.

Certiﬁed Everlasting Secure Collusion-Resistant
445
F(m1, . . . , m2n+1) where F is deﬁned as
F(m1, . . . , m2n+1) :=

f(m1, . . . , mn)
if m2n+1 = 0
f(mn+1, . . . , m2n)
if m2n+1 = 1 .
(2)
The decryption correctness is unaﬀected because we always have m2n+1 = 0
when decrypting an honestly generated message. The veriﬁcation correctness
is also unaﬀected since the way of encoding messages is irrelevant. We explain
why this enables us to avoid the issue mentioned in the previous paragraph.
Intuitively, the advantage of such a redundant encoding is that we can ensure
that the encoded challenge message contains either of two challenge messages
in all intermediate hybrids. Let m(0) and m(1) be a pair of challenge messages.
Note that they correspond to m(0)∥0n+1 and m(1)∥0n+1 after encoding. Then we
consider intermediate hybrids where the corresponding challenge messages after
the encoding evolves as follows:
1. Starting from m(0)∥0n+1, we change the (n + 1)-th to 2n-th bits one-by-one
toward m(0)∥m(1)∥0.
2. Flip the (2n + 1)-th bit, which results in m(0)∥m(1)∥1.
3. Change the ﬁrst to n bits one-by-one toward m(1)∥m(1)∥1.
4. Flip the (2n + 1)-th bit, which results in m(1)∥m(1)∥0.
5. Change the (n + 1)-th to 2n-th bits one-by-one toward m(1)∥02n+1.
Importantly, the value of F on the encoded challenge message is equal to
f(m(0)) = f(m(1)) at any point of the hybrids. This enables us to rely on the
security of the underlying public-slot FE along with certiﬁed everlasting lemma
in every hybrid.
What One-Time Signatures to Use? Finally, we remark that we have to choose
an instantiation of one-time signatures carefully. Roughly speaking, the reason
why we are using one-time signatures is to prevent an adversary from using
“unauthorized” bi,j, i.e., those for which the valid signature σi,j,bi,j is not given
to the adversary. However, by the correctness of one-time signatures, a valid
signature must exist on every message. This means that a valid signature on
an “unauthorized” bi,j must exist even if it is diﬃcult for an adversary to ﬁnd.
This situation is not compatible with the security deﬁnition of public-slot FE.
Recall that its security requires that the challenge message pair (m(0), m(1))
must satisfy f(m(0), pub) = f(m(1), pub) for all key queries f and all public
inputs pub. That is, the security is not applicable if there is at least one pub
such that f(m(0), pub) ̸= f(m(1), pub) even if such pub is diﬃcult to ﬁnd. To
overcome this issue, we use Lamport signatures instantiated with a PRG. Let
PRG : {0, 1}λ →{0, 1}2λ be a PRG. When the message length is 1, a signing
key is set to be (u0, u1) ∈{0, 1}λ×2 and a veriﬁcation key is set to be (v0 =
PRG(u0), v1 = PRG(u1)) ∈{0, 1}2λ×2. A signature for a bit b is deﬁned to be ub.
This scheme has a special property in that we can program a veriﬁcation key so
that it does not have a valid signature for a particular message. For example, if
we want to ensure that a message 0 does not have a valid signature, then we can

446
T. Hiroka et al.
set v0 to be a uniformly random 2λ-bit string. Then, with probability 1 −2−λ,
there is no preimage of v0, which means that there is no valid signature on the
massage 0. By using this property, whenever bi,j is unauthorized, we can switch
to a hybrid where there is no valid signature for bi,j. This eﬀectively resolves the
above issue.
2.2
Technical Overview: Bounded Collusion-Resistant FE
In this subsection, we give a high-level overview of our certiﬁed everlasting
secure bounded collusion-resistant FE schemes. It is known that the (bounded
collusion-resistant) plain FE is constructed from (standard) PKE, RNCE, and
garbling [GVW12]. A natural strategy is constructing PKE, RNCE, and gar-
bling with certiﬁed everlasting security and using them as building blocks. We
show that PKE with certiﬁed everlasting security can be constructed using the
techniques of [Unr15,HMNY22b]. RNCE with certiﬁed everlasting security for
classical messages can be constructed from certiﬁed everlasting PKE in the same
way as standard RNCE [KNTY19]. However, such an RNCE scheme is insuﬃ-
cient for our purpose (constructing adaptively-secure FE) because it is not for
quantum messages. We also need a new idea to construct garbling with certiﬁed
everlasting security. The following explains these ideas and how to construct FE
with certiﬁed everlasting security.
Certiﬁed Everlasting Garbling for P/poly Circuits. In classical cryptography,
it is known that we can construct plain garbling from plain SKE using double-
encryption [Yao86,LP09]. Double-encryption means we generate a nested cipher-
text ct2 ←Enc(sk′, ct1), where ct1 ←Enc(sk, m), m is the message, Enc is the
encryption algorithm of SKE, and sk, sk′ are secret keys of SKE. This double-
encryption is an essential technique for garbling. However, it is an obstacle to
our purpose. First, we do not know SKE with certiﬁed everlasting security for
quantum messages. Second, even if the ﬁrst problem is solved, we have another
problem: We can obtain a valid certiﬁcate showing that ct1 has been deleted by
running the deletion algorithm on ct2. However, such a certiﬁcate does not neces-
sarily mean the deletion of m. We bypass the problem using XOR secret sharing
instead of double-encryption.8 More precisely, we uniformly randomly sample p
and compute (vk′, ct′) ←Enc(sk′, p) and (vk, ct) ←Enc(sk, p ⊕m) to encrypt
message m. Here, Enc is the encryption algorithm of certiﬁed everlasting SKE,
and vk′, vk are the veriﬁcation keys that are used to verify the correctness of dele-
tion certiﬁcates. The receiver with (ct′, ct) can obtain m only if it has both sk′
and sk, and nothing else otherwise, as in the case of double-encryption. Further-
more, once the receiver issues the deletion certiﬁcate of (ct′, ct), it can no longer
obtain the information of m even if it becomes computationally unbounded.
It is easy to see that we can implement the well-known gate garbling [Yao86,
LP09] by using the double encryption in the parallel way above instead of the
sequential double encryption. We can prove its computational security via a
8 A similar technique was used by Gentry, Halevi, and Vaikuntanathan [GHV10].

Certiﬁed Everlasting Secure Collusion-Resistant
447
similar discussion as that in [LP09]. (Although [LP09] uses double-encryption,
we can show the security for the XOR secret sharing case similarly.) Furthermore,
we can prove its certiﬁed everlasting security by using the certiﬁed everlasting
security of the SKE. Hence, we can obtain certiﬁed everlasting garbling.
FE with Non-adaptive Security. Our next task is achieving certiﬁed everlasting
FE using certiﬁed everlasting garbling. It is known that plain FE with non-
adaptive security can be constructed by running the encryption algorithm of
(plain) PKE on labels of a plain garbling scheme [SS10].9 In our certiﬁed ever-
lasting garbling scheme (explained in the previous paragraph), the labels are
classical bit strings and the deletion algorithm does not take the labels as input.
Therefore, this classical construction for plain FE by Sahai and Seyalioglu [SS10]
can be directly applied to the construction of our 1-bounded certiﬁed everlasting
FE for P/poly circuits with non-adaptive security.
FE with Adaptive Security. Now, we want to convert non-adaptive security to
adaptive one.10 However, the conversion is non-trivial. Let us ﬁrst review the con-
version for plain FE. In classical cryptography, we can convert non-adaptively
secure FE into adaptively secure FE by using RNCE. Roughly speaking, RNCE
is the same as PKE except that we can generate a fake ciphertext ct ←Fake(pk)
without plaintext and we can generate a fake secret key sk ←Reveal(pk, m)
that decrypts ct to m. The security of RNCE guarantees that (Enc(pk, m), sk)
and (Fake(pk), Reveal(pk, m)) are computationally indistinguishable, where Enc
is the real encryption algorithm, and sk is the real secret key. Adaptively secure
FE can be constructed by running the real encryption algorithm Enc of the
RNCE on the ciphertext nad.ct of the FE. We can prove its adaptive secu-
rity as follows. The adversary of adaptive security can send key queries after
the challenge encryption query. However, the sender can simulate the chal-
lenge encryption query without generating nad.ct. This is because, from the
security of RNCE, we can switch (Enc(pk, nad.ct), (sk, nad.skf)) to the fake one
(Fake(pk), (Reveal(pk, nad.ct), nad.skf)), where nad.skf is the functional secret
key of the non-adaptively secure FE. Therefore, the sender needs not generate
nad.ct before generating nad.skf for the simulation of the adversary’s queries,
which means that we can reduce the adaptive security to the non-adaptive secu-
rity.
How can we adopt the above classical idea of the conversion to the certiﬁed
everlasting case? From the discussion above, a straightforward way is to encrypt
the ciphertext nad.ct of certiﬁed everlasting FE with non-adaptive security using
certiﬁed everlasting RNCE as follows: (vk, ct) ←Enc(pk, nad.ct), where vk is the
veriﬁcation key, pk is the public key, and Enc is the real encryption algorithm
of the certiﬁed everlasting RNCE. However, this idea fails for the following two
9 The non-adaptive security means that the adversary can call the key queries only
before the challenge encryption query.
10 The adaptive security means that the adversary can call key queries before and after
the challenge encryption query.

448
T. Hiroka et al.
reasons. First, nad.ct is a quantum state. Our certiﬁed everlasting RNCE scheme
does not support quantum messages. Second, even if we can construct RNCE for
quantum messages, we have another problem: A valid certiﬁcate of ct is issued
by running the deletion algorithm on ct. However, such a certiﬁcate does not
necessarily mean the deletion of the plaintext of nad.ct. The ﬁrst problem is
about security, and the second problem is about correctness.
Our idea to resolve the ﬁrst problem is to use quantum teleportation. We
construct RNCE for quantum messages from RNCE for classical messages by
using quantum teleportation.11 (We believe that the idea of using quantum tele-
portation in the following way will be useful in many other applications beyond
RNCE.) As the ciphertext and the secret key of adaptively secure FE, we take
1
22N

a,b∈{0,1}N
(ZbXa(nad.ct)XaZb)C1 ⊗Enc(pk, (a, b))C2 ⊗(nad.skf, sk)S,
where nad.ct is an N-qubit state, the registers C1 and C2 are the ciphertext,
and the register S is the secret key. Here, Xa := N
j=1 Xaj
j , Zb := N
j=1 Zbj
j ,
aj is the jth bit of a, and bj is the jth bit of b. Moreover, Enc is the real
encryption algorithm of RNCE for classical messages, nad.skf is the secret key
of non-adaptively secure FE, and sk is the real secret key of RNCE for classical
messages. We want to show the adaptive security of the construction by reducing
it to the non-adaptive security of the building block FE. In the ﬁrst step of
hybrids, we switch the state to
1
22N

a,b
(ZbXa(nad.ct)XaZb)C1 ⊗Fake(pk)C2 ⊗(nad.skf, Reveal(pk, (a, b)))S
by using the property of RNCE for classical messages. In the second step of
hybrids, we switch the state to
1
22N

x,z∈{0,1}N
T x,z
A′,A[nad.ctA′ ⊗|ΦN⟩⟨ΦN|A,C1] ⊗Fake(pk)C2 ⊗(nad.skf , Reveal(pk, (x, z)))S,
where |ΦN⟩is the N Bell pairs between the registers A and C1. T x,z
A′,A[nad.ctA′ ⊗
|ΦN⟩⟨ΦN|A,C1] is the state on the register C1 obtained in the following way: the
state nad.ctA′ on the register A′ is coupled with the halves of N Bell pairs on
the register A, and the teleportation measurement T x,z
A′,A with the result (x, z) is
applied on the registers A and A′. Now, we can generate the states on the regis-
ters C1 and C2 without knowing nad.ct, which means that the sender can sim-
ulate the challenge encryption query without nad.ct. In other words, the sender
does not need to generate nad.ct before generating nad.skf for the simulation of
adversary queries.
This idea solves the ﬁrst problem. However, the second problem remains. The
receiver with (ZbXa(nad.ct)XaZb, Enc(pk, (a, b))) can issue a deletion certiﬁcate
11 A similar technique was used in the context of multi-party quantum computa-
tion [BCKM21].

Certiﬁed Everlasting Secure Collusion-Resistant
449
of ZbXa(nad.ct)XaZb. The deletion certiﬁcate does not necessarily pass the
veriﬁcation algorithm for the deletion of nad.ct. This is an obstacle to achieving
correctness. We solve this problem by introducing an eﬃcient algorithm that
we call the modiﬁcation algorithm. Let nad.cert∗be the deletion certiﬁcate of
ZbXa(nad.ct)XaZb. The modiﬁcation algorithm takes (a, b) and nad.cert∗as
input, and outputs nad.cert that is the deletion certiﬁcate of nad.ct. Therefore, by
using the modiﬁcation algorithm, we can convert the deletion certiﬁcate nad.cert∗
of ZbXa(nad.ct)XaZb to the deletion certiﬁcate nad.cert of nad.ct. We observe
that the modiﬁcation algorithm exists for many natural constructions, including
our construction.12
q-bounded FE for NC1 circuits. Finally, we explain how to convert 1-bounded one
to the q-bounded one.13 Unfortunately, we do not know how to obtain q-bounded
certiﬁed everlasting FE for P/poly circuits. What we can construct in this paper
is that only for NC1 circuits. (It is an open problem to obtain q-bounded certiﬁed
everlasting FE for P/poly circuits.)
Let us explain how to convert 1-bounded certiﬁed everlasting FE for P/poly
circuits to q-bounded certiﬁed everlasting FE for NC1 circuits. In classical cryp-
tography, it is known that [GVW12] multi-party computation (MPC) can con-
vert plain 1-bounded FE for P/poly circuits to plain q-bounded FE for NC1
circuits. The idea is, roughly speaking, the view of each party in the MPC pro-
tocol is encrypted using 1-bounded FE scheme. In this classical construction, no
encryption is done on the ciphertexts of plain FE, and therefore this classical
construction can be directly applied to our certiﬁed everlasting case. (It is an
open problem to obtain q-bounded certiﬁed everlasting FE for P/poly circuits.
2.3
Technical Overview: Compute-and-Compare Obfuscation
This section provides a high-level overview of our certiﬁed everlasting compute-
and-compare obfuscation. Recall that a compute-and-compare obfuscation
scheme obfuscates a circuit P along with a lock value lock and a message m
and outputs an obfuscated circuit P. In the evaluation phase, one can recover
m from P using an input x to the circuit such that P(x) = lock. A certiﬁed
everlasting compute-and-compare obfuscation scheme additionally generates a
veriﬁcation key vk while obfuscating circuit P. A user can generate a deletion
certiﬁcate cert from P. If we have vk, we can verify whether the certiﬁcate is
valid or not. The certiﬁed everlasting security ensures that no information about
P, lock and m is available to the user after producing a valid certiﬁcate. This
means that the user actually deleted the obfuscated circuit.
12 If the deletion algorithm is the computational-basis measurements followed by Clif-
ford gates, the modiﬁcation algorithm is just modifying the Pauli one-time pad,
XaZb. In fact, all known constructions use only Hadamard basis measurements.
13 q-bounded means that the adversary can call key queries q times with an a priori
bounded polynomial q.

450
T. Hiroka et al.
Compute-and-Compare Obfuscation without a Message. We ﬁrst explain our idea
to construct a certiﬁed everlasting compute-and-compare obfuscation without
any message. That is, the evaluation returns 1 if P(x) = lock holds. Let CC.Obf
be the obfuscation algorithm of a standard compute-and-compare obfuscation
scheme and Enc, Dec be the encryption, and decryption algorithms of FHE. The
main idea is to compute an FHE ciphertext ctP encrypting the circuit P and use
CC.Obf to produce an obfuscated circuit 
Dec of the decryption circuit of FHE
with lock value lock and message 1. The obfuscated circuit P consists of ctP and

Dec. Given an input x, we ﬁrst apply the evaluation procedure of FHE to get a
ciphertext ctP (x) = Enc(P(x)) (we omit the encryption key) and then run the
evaluation algorithm of the compute-and-compare obfuscation with input ctP (x)
to check whether P(x) = lock. Note that we cannot use certiﬁed everlasting FHE
[BK23] in a black-box manner since CC.Obf is a classical algorithm that cannot
obfuscate a quantum circuit, in particular, the decryption algorithm of the FHE.
Instead, we use BB84 states along with classical FHE as follows. The obfuscated
circuit P consists of 
Dec := CC.Obf(Dec(sk, ·), lock, 1) and {|zi⟩θi, cti}i∈[ℓP ] where
cti := Enc(θi∥bi), zi, θi ←{0, 1}λ for i ∈[ℓP ], bi := bi ⊕
j:θi,j=0 zi,j and bi is
the i-th bit of the binary string of length ℓP representing the circuit P. The
veriﬁcation key is vk = ({zi, θi}i∈[ℓP ]). To evaluate the obfuscated circuit with
an input x, we ﬁrst coherently compute an evaluated FHE ciphertext |ctUx(P )⟩
where Ux is a circuit that on input ({zi, θi,bi}i∈[ℓP ]) ﬁrst recovers bi, the bits
representing P, and then outputs P(x). Then, we coherently evaluate the obfus-
cated circuit 
Dec with input |ctUx(P )⟩and check that the measured outcome is
1 to decide P(x) = lock. The deletion and veriﬁcation algorithm works similarly
as in the certiﬁed everlasting PKE scheme described in Sec. 2.1. That is, we use
the concrete certiﬁed everlasting secure FHE scheme by Bartusek and Khurana
in a non-black-box way.
However, the above scheme cannot guarantee certiﬁed everlasting security.
The reason is that the classical compute-and-compare obfuscation cannot hide
the lock value from an unbounded adversary. More precisely, the unbounded
adversary is given a target circuit and an auxiliary input and can easily distin-
guish between the obfuscated circuit 
Dec ←CC.Obf(1λ, Dec, lock, 1) and the cor-
responding simulated circuit 
Dec ←CC.Sim(1λ, ppDec, 11) if the auxiliary input
and lock are correlated, where ppDec consists of parameters of Dec (input and
output length and circuit size).
We solve this problem by masking the obfuscated circuit that encodes lock
using the XOR function in combination with the BB84 states. In particu-
lar, we sample “dummy” lock value R ←{0, 1}λ and set the obfuscated cir-
cuit LC as (
Dec := CC.Obf(Dec(sk, ·), R, 1), {|zi⟩θi, cti}i∈[ℓ]) where ℓ= ℓP + ℓI
and {cti}i∈[ℓ] encrypts the binary string representing the circuits (P∥I) where
I := CC.Obf(I, lock, R). We denote I by the identity circuit that is I(x) = x
for all x. The evaluation algorithm works as before except that the circuit Ux
on input ({zi, θi,bi}i∈[ℓ]) ﬁrst reconstructs (P∥I) and then outputs the result
obtained in the evaluation of I with input P(x). Hence, checking P(x) = lock

Certiﬁed Everlasting Secure Collusion-Resistant
451
is deferred until evaluating I, which is hidden due to the certiﬁed everlasting
security of FHE. The correctness follows from the fact that Ux returns R if
P(x) = lock and evaluation of 
Dec outputs 1 if Ux(P∥I) = R.
The simulated circuit P consists of 
Dec = CC.Obf(Dec(sk, ·), R, 1) and
{|zi⟩θi, cti}i∈[ℓ] where cti := Enc(θi∥bi) and bi := 0 ⊕
j:θi,j=0 zi,j for i ∈[ℓ].
Note that, P does not contain any information about P and lock. We rely on the
certiﬁed everlasting lemma of [BK23] to show that the real obfuscated circuit is
indistinguishable from the simulated circuit for any unbounded adversary who
produces a valid certiﬁcate of deletion. Although an unbounded adversary can
recover sk from 
Dec, sk is useless for distinguishing after the deletion. Since the
lemma only allows us to ﬂip one bit at a time, we use a sequence of ℓhybrid exper-
iments. In the i-th hybrid, we change the bit bi from 1 to 0. If we can show that
Enc(θi∥bi) is computationally indistinguishable from Enc(0∥bi) and then it is pos-
sible to apply the certiﬁed everlasting lemma to ﬂip the bit bi without noticing
the unbounded adversary. To establish the computational indistinguishability,
we ﬁrst replace the circuit I ←CC.Obf(I, lock, R) with the simulated one I ←
CC.Sim(1λ, ppI, 1|R|) and then change the circuit 
Dec ←CC.Obf(Dec, lock, 1) to
the corresponding simulated circuit 
Dec ←CC.Sim(1λ, ppDec, 11) depending on
the security of the underlying compute-and-compare obfuscation scheme. Since
the FHE secret key sk is no longer required to simulate the adversary’s view, we
can change Enc(θi∥bi) to Enc(0∥bi) using the IND-CPA security of FHE. Hence,
bi can be set to 0 by employing the certiﬁed everlasting lemma.
Compute-and-Compare Obfuscation with a Message. Next, we discuss extend-
ing the above construction into a certiﬁed everlasting compute-and-compare
obfuscation scheme that obfuscates a circuit P along with lock and a message
m = m1 . . . mn ∈{0, 1}n. Our idea is to encrypt the message using FHE in
combination with the BB84 states and recover the message bits during evalu-
ation depending on the outcome of the obfuscated circuit 
Dec. The obfuscated
circuit P now additionally includes {|zℓ+k⟩θℓ+k, ctℓ+k}k∈[n] where zℓ+k, θℓ+k ←
{0, 1}λ , ctℓ+k := Enc(θℓ+k∥bℓ+k) and bℓ+k := mk ⊕
j:θℓ+k,j=0 zℓ+k,j for
k ∈[n]. The evaluation procedure works as before except the Ux on input
(({zi, θi,bi}i∈[ℓ]), (zℓ+k, θℓ+k,bℓ+k)) ﬁrst reconstructs (P∥I) from {zi, θi,bi}i∈[ℓ]
and mk from (zℓ+k, θℓ+k,bℓ+k), and then outputs mk · I(P(x)). We can similarly
deﬁne the deletion and veriﬁcation algorithms as before. The scheme correctly
recovers m in a bit-by-bit manner. Let us consider P(x) = lock and mk = 1.
Then, by the deﬁnition of Ux and the correctness of compute-and-compare obfus-
cation, we have mk · I(P(x)) = R. Consequently, 
Dec evaluates to 1 for an input
ctmk·I(P (x)). If the result of the evaluation is not 1, then we set mk := 0. We
prove the certiﬁed everlasting security of the scheme using the same idea as
discussed for the compute-and-compare obfuscation scheme without a message.
The only diﬀerence is that we additionally delete the information of m using the
IND-CPA security of FHE and certiﬁed everlasting lemma of [BK23] after we
erase the information about P and lock.

452
T. Hiroka et al.
Certiﬁed Everlasting Predicate Encryption.
Goyal, Koppula and Waters
[GKW17] and Wichs and Zirdelis [WZ17] showed a generic construction of
PE14 from compute-and-compare obfuscation and ABE. The construction works
as follows. The setup and key generation algorithms are the same as the
underlying ABE. Let Enc and Dec be the encryption and decryption algo-
rithms of ABE. To encrypt a message m with attribute x, the encryption algo-
rithm samples a random lock R ∈{0, 1}ℓand computes ct := Enc(x, R) and

Dec := CC.Obf(Dec(·, ct), R, m). The ciphertext is the obfuscated circuit 
Dec.
Given a secret key skP for a policy P, a user simply evaluates 
Dec with input
skP to recover the message m. Note that, if P(x) = 1 then by the correctness of
ABE, Dec(skP , ct) = R and hence 
Dec(skP ) returns m.
One might hope that replacing the compute-and-compare obfuscation and
ABE with their certiﬁed everlasting counterparts in the classical construction
yields a certiﬁed everlasting PE. This would not work since our certiﬁed ever-
lasting compute-and-compare obfuscation cannot obfuscate a quantum decryp-
tion circuit Dec(·, ct) of the certiﬁed everlasting ABE. However, we need to erase
the information about R from the ABE ciphertext ct in order to apply the
certiﬁed everlasting security of the compute-and-compare obfuscation. In other
words, after a valid certiﬁcate of deletion is produced, an unbounded adversary
should not be able to distinguish between Enc(x, R) and Enc(x, 0). A classical
ABE alone can not guarantee such indistinguishability. We solve this problem
by using a classical ABE coupled with BB84 states and a certiﬁed everlast-
ing compute-and-compare obfuscation in the above construction. In particular,
we ﬁrst sample zi, θi ←{0, 1}ℓ, set ri := ri ⊕
j:θi,j=0 zi,j and then compute
ct := Enc(x, (θ1, . . . , θℓ, ri, . . . , rℓ)) where ri denotes the i-th bit of R. The cipher-
text consists of 
Dec := CCObf (Dec(·, ct), R, m) and {|zi⟩θi}i∈[ℓ]. The veriﬁcation
key associated with the ciphertext includes {zi, θi}i∈[ℓ] and a veriﬁcation key
vkDec corresponding to the circuit Dec. The deletion and veriﬁcation algorithms
can be deﬁned in a natural way. That is, we use the concrete certiﬁed everlasting
secure ABE scheme by Bartusek and Khurana in a non-black-box way.
Suppose an adversary queries secret keys skP such that P(x) = 0 and
becomes unbounded after delivering a valid certiﬁcate of deletion of the cipher-
text. Our idea is to use the security of ABE and the certiﬁed everlasting lemma
of [BK23] to delete the information of R. Then, we utilize the certiﬁed everlasting
security of compute-and-compare obfuscation for replacing 
Dec with a simulated
circuit that does not contain any information about m, x.
Acknowledgement. TM
is
supported
by
JST
Moonshot
JPMJMS2061-5-1-1,
JST FOREST, MEXT QLEAP, the Grant-in-Aid for Scientiﬁc Research (B) No.
JP19H04066, the Grant-in Aid for Transformative Research Areas (A) 21H05183, and
the Grant-in-Aid for Scientiﬁc Research (A) No. 22H00522. TH is supported by JSPS
research fellowship and by JSPS KAKENHI No. JP22J21864.
14 It satisﬁes one-sided attribute-hiding security, meaning that the attribute and mes-
sage are both hidden to a user who does not have a secret key for successful decryp-
tion.

Certiﬁed Everlasting Secure Collusion-Resistant
453
References
ABSV15. Ananth, P., Brakerski, Z., Segev, G., Vaikuntanathan, V.: From selective to
adaptive security in functional encryption. In: Gennaro, R., Robshaw, M.
(eds.) CRYPTO 2015. LNCS, vol. 9216, pp. 657–677. Springer, Heidelberg
(2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-48000-7_32
AKYY23. Agrawal, S., Kumari, S., Yadav, A., Yamada, S.: Broadcast, trace and
revoke with optimal parameters from polynomial hardness. In: Hazay, C.,
Stam, M. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT 2023. EURO-
CRYPT 2023, LNCS, Part III, vol. 14006, pp. 605–636. Springer, Cham
(2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-30620-4_20
AL21. Ananth, P., La Placa, R.L.: Secure software leasing. In: Canteaut, A.,
Standaert, F.-X. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2021, Part II. LNCS, vol. 12697,
pp. 501–530. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
77886-6_17
ALL+21. Aaronson, S., Liu, J., Liu, Q., Zhandry, M., Zhang, R.: New approaches
for quantum copy-protection. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) CRYPTO
2021, Part I. LNCS, vol. 12825, pp. 526–555. Springer, Cham (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84242-0_19
AP20. Agrawal, S., Pellet-Mary, A.: Indistinguishability obfuscation without
maps: attacks and ﬁxes for noisy linear FE. In: Canteaut, A., Ishai,
Y. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2020, Part I. LNCS, vol. 12105, pp. 110–140.
Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-45721-1_5
AS16. Ananth, P., Sahai, A.: Functional encryption for turing machines. In:
Kushilevitz, E., Malkin, T. (eds.) TCC 2016, Part I. LNCS, vol. 9562,
pp. 125–153. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
662-49096-9_6
AV19. Ananth, P., Vaikuntanathan, V.: Optimal bounded-collusion secure func-
tional encryption. In: Hofheinz, D., Rosen, A. (eds.) TCC 2019, Part I.
LNCS, vol. 11891, pp. 174–198. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-030-36030-6_8
AYY22. Agrawal, S., Yadav, A., Yamada, S.: Multi-input Attribute Based Encryp-
tion and Predicate Encryption. In: Dodis, Y., Shrimpton, T. (eds.)
Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2022. CRYPTO 2022, LNCS, vol.
13507, pp. 590–621. Springer, Cham (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-031-15802-5_21
BCKM21. Bartusek, J., Coladangelo, A., Khurana, D., Ma, F.: On the round com-
plexity of secure quantum computation. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2021, Part I. LNCS, vol. 12825, pp. 406–435. Springer, Cham
(2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84242-0_15
BDF+11. Boneh, D., Dagdelen, Ö., Fischlin, M., Lehmann, A., Schaﬀner, C.,
Zhandry, M.: Random oracles in a quantum world. In: Lee, D.H., Wang,
X. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2011. LNCS, vol. 7073, pp. 41–69. Springer, Hei-
delberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-25385-0_3
BG20. Broadbent, A., Grilo, A.B.: QMA-hardness of consistency of local density
matrices with applications to quantum zero-knowledge. In: 61st FOCS,
pp. 196–205. IEEE Computer Society Press, November 2020
BGG+23. Bartusek, J., et al.: Obfuscation and outsourced computation with certiﬁed
deletion. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2023/265 (2023). https://
eprint.iacr.org/2023/265

454
T. Hiroka et al.
BGMZ18. Bartusek, J., Guan, J., Ma, F., Zhandry, M.: Return of GGH15: provable
security against Zeroizing attacks. In: Beimel, A., Dziembowski, S. (eds.)
TCC 2018, Part II. LNCS, vol. 11240, pp. 544–574. Springer, Cham (2018).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-03810-6_20
BI20. Broadbent, A., Islam, R.: Quantum encryption with certiﬁed deletion.
In: Pass, R., Pietrzak, K. (eds.) TCC 2020, Part III. LNCS, vol. 12552,
pp. 92–122. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
64381-2_4
BJL+21. Broadbent, A., Jeﬀery, S., Lord, S., Podder, S., Sundaram, A.: Secure
software leasing without assumptions. In: Nissim, K., Waters, B. (eds.)
TCC 2021, Part I. LNCS, vol. 13042, pp. 90–120. Springer, Cham (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-90459-3_4
BK23. Bartusek, J., Khurana, D.: Cryptography with certiﬁed deletion. In: Hand-
schuh, H., Lysyanskaya, A. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO
2023. CRYPTO 2023, Part V, LNCS, vol. 14085, pp. 192–223. Springer,
Cham (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-38554-4_7
BSW11. Boneh, D., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Functional encryption: deﬁnitions
and challenges. In: Ishai, Y. (ed.) TCC 2011. LNCS, vol. 6597, pp.
253–273. Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-
19571-6_16
CCP18. California consumer privacy act (2018)
CHVW19. Chen, Y., Hhan, M., Vaikuntanathan, V., Wee, H.: Matrix PRFs: construc-
tions, attacks, and applications to obfuscation. In: Hofheinz, D., Rosen,
A. (eds.) TCC 2019, Part I. LNCS, vol. 11891, pp. 55–80. Springer, Cham
(2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-36030-6_3
CLLZ21. Coladangelo, A., Liu, J., Liu, Q., Zhandry, M.: Hidden Cosets and appli-
cations to unclonable cryptography. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2021, Part I. LNCS, vol. 12825, pp. 556–584. Springer, Cham
(2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84242-0_20
CMP20. Coladangelo, A., Majenz, C., Poremba, A.: Quantum copy-protection of
compute-and-compare programs in the quantum random oracle model.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/1194 (2020). https://eprint.iacr.
org/2020/1194
CVW+18. Chen, Y., Vaikuntanathan, V., Waters, B., Wee, H., Wichs, D.: Traitor-
tracing from LWE made simple and attribute-based. In: Beimel, A.,
Dziembowski, S. (eds.) TCC 2018. LNCS, vol. 11240, pp. 341–369.
Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-03810-6_13
FFMV23. Francati, D., Friolo, D., Malavolta, G., Venturi, D.: Multi-key and multi-
input predicate encryption from learning with errors. In: Hazay, C., Stam,
M. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT 2023. EUROCRYPT
2023, Part III, LNCS, vol. 14006, pp. 573–604. Springer, Cham (2023).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-30620-4_19
GDP16. Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European parliament and of the coun-
cil of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to
the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data,
and repealing directive 95/46 (general data protection regulation). Oﬃcial
Journal of the European Union (OJ), pp. 1–88 (2016)
GGG+14. Goldwasser, S., et al.: Multi-input functional encryption. In: Nguyen, P.Q.,
Oswald, E. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2014. LNCS, vol. 8441, pp. 578–602.
Springer, Heidelberg (2014)

Certiﬁed Everlasting Secure Collusion-Resistant
455
GGH+16. Garg, S., Gentry, C., Halevi, S., Raykova, M., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Can-
didate indistinguishability obfuscation and functional encryption for all
circuits. SIAM J. Comput. 45(3), 882–929 (2016)
GHV10. Gentry, C., Halevi, S., Vaikuntanathan, V.: i-hop homomorphic encryp-
tion and rerandomizable yao circuits. In: Rabin, T. (ed.) CRYPTO 2010.
LNCS, vol. 6223, pp. 155–172. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-642-14623-7_9
GJO16. Goyal, V., Jain, A., O’Neill, A.: Multi-input functional encryption with
unbounded-message security. In: Cheon, J.H., Takagi, T. (eds.) ASI-
ACRYPT 2016, Part II. LNCS, vol. 10032, pp. 531–556. Springer, Hei-
delberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53890-6_18
GKW17. Goyal, R., Koppula, V., Waters, B.: Lockable obfuscation. In: Umans, C.
(ed.), 58th FOCS, pp. 612–621. IEEE Computer Society Press, October
2017
GMM17. Garg, S., Mahmoody, M., Mohammed, A.: Lower bounds on obfuscation
from all-or-nothing encryption primitives. In: Katz, J., Shacham, H. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2017, Part I. LNCS, vol. 10401, pp. 661–695. Springer, Cham
(2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-63688-7_22
GVW12. Gorbunov, S., Vaikuntanathan, V., Wee, H.: Functional encryption with
bounded collusions via multi-party computation. In: Safavi-Naini, R.,
Canetti, R. (eds.) CRYPTO 2012. LNCS, vol. 7417, pp. 162–179. Springer,
Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-32009-5_11
GVW15. Gorbunov, S., Vaikuntanathan, V., Wee, H.: Predicate encryption for cir-
cuits from LWE. In: Gennaro, R., Robshaw, M. (eds.) CRYPTO 2015.
LNCS, vol. 9216, pp. 503–523. Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-662-48000-7_25
HKM+23. Hiroka, T., Kitagawa, F., Morimae, T., Nishimaki, R., Pal, T., Yamakawa,
T.:. Certiﬁed everlasting secure collusion-resistant functional encryption,
and more. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2023/236 (2023). https://
eprint.iacr.org/2023/236
HMNY21. Hiroka, T., Morimae, T., Nishimaki, R., Yamakawa, T.: Quantum encryp-
tion with certiﬁed deletion, revisited: public key, attribute-based, and clas-
sical communication. In: Tibouchi, M., Wang, H. (eds.) ASIACRYPT
2021. LNCS, vol. 13090, pp. 606–636. Springer, Cham (2021). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-92062-3_21
HMNY22a. Hiroka, T., Morimae, T., Nishimaki, R., Yamakawa, T.: Certiﬁed everlast-
ing functional encryption. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2022/969
(2022). https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/969
HMNY22b. Hiroka, T., Morimae, T., Nishimaki, R., Yamakawa, T.: Certiﬁed everlast-
ing zero-knowledge proof for QMA. In: Dodis, Y., Shrimpton, T. (eds.)
Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2022. CRYPTO 2022. LNCS, Part I,
vol. 13507, pp. 239–268. Springer, Cham (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-031-15802-5_9
JLS21. Jain, A., Lin, H., Sahai, A.: Indistinguishability obfuscation from well-
founded assumptions. In: Khuller, S., Williams, V.V., (eds.), 53rd ACM
STOC, pp. 60–73. ACM Press, June 2021
JLS22. Jain, A., Lin, H., Sahai, A.: Indistinguishability obfuscation from LPN
over Fp, DLIN, and PRGs in NC0. In: Dunkelman, O., Dziembowski,
S. (eds.), EUROCRYPT 2022, Part I, vol. 13275 of LNCS, pp. 670–699.
Springer, Heidelberg, May/June 2022

456
T. Hiroka et al.
Klu22. Kluczniak, K.: Lockable obfuscation from circularly insecure fully homo-
morphic encryption. In: Hanaoka, G., Shikata, J., Watanabe, Y. (eds.),
PKC 2022, Part II, vol. 13178 of LNCS, pp. 69–98. Springer, Cham (2022)
KN22. Kitagawa, F., Nishimaki, R.: Functional encryption with secure key leas-
ing. In: Asiacrypt 2022 (2022)
KNTY19. Kitagawa, F., Nishimaki, R., Tanaka, K., Yamakawa, T.: Adaptively secure
and succinct functional encryption: improving security and eﬃciency,
simultaneously. In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio, D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019,
Part III. LNCS, vol. 11694, pp. 521–551. Springer, Cham (2019). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-26954-8_17
KNY21. Kitagawa, F., Nishimaki, R., Yamakawa, T.: Secure software leasing from
standard assumptions. In: Nissim, K., Waters, B. (eds.) TCC 2021. LNCS,
vol. 13042, pp. 31–61. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-90459-3_2
KNY23. Kitagawa, F., Nishimaki, R., Yamakawa, T.: Publicly veriﬁable deletion
from minimal assumptions. In: Rothblum, G., Wee, H. (eds) Theory of
Cryptography. TCC 2023. LNCS, vol. 14372, pp. 228–245. Springer, Cham
(2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-48624-1_9
KSW08. Katz, J., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Predicate encryption supporting dis-
junctions, polynomial equations, and inner products. In: Smart, N. (ed.)
EUROCRYPT 2008. LNCS, vol. 4965, pp. 146–162. Springer, Heidelberg
(2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-78967-3_9
KT20. Kundu, S., Tan, E.: Composably secure device-independent encryption
with certiﬁed deletion. arXiv, 2011.12704 (2020)
LC97. Lo, H.-K., Chau, H.F.: Is quantum bit commitment really possible? Phys.
Rev. Lett. 78, 3410–3413 (1997)
LP09. Lindell, Y., Pinkas, B.: A proof of security of Yao’s protocol for two-party
computation. J. Cryptol. 22(2), 161–188 (2009)
May97. Mayers, D.: Unconditionally secure quantum bit commitment is impossi-
ble. Phys. Rev. Lett. 78, 3414–3417 (1997)
MW18. Menda, S., Watrous, J.: Oracle separations for quantum statistical zero-
knowledge. arXiv:1801.08967 (2018)
Por23. Poremba, A.: Quantum proofs of deletion for learning with errors. In:
Kalai, Y.T. (ed.), 14th Innovations in Theoretical Computer Science Con-
ference, ITCS 2023, 10–13 January 2023, MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts,
USA, vol. 251 of LIPIcs, pp. 90:1–90:14. Schloss Dagstuhl - Leibniz-
Zentrum für Informatik (2023)
SS10. Sahai, A., Seyalioglu, H.: Worry-free encryption: functional encryption
with public keys. In: Al-Shaer, E., Keromytis, A.D., Shmatikov, V. (eds.)
ACM CCS 2010, pp. 463–472. ACM Press, October 2010
Unr15. Dominique Unruh. Revocable quantum timed-release encryption. J. ACM
62(6), 49:1–49:76 (2015)
Wat15. Waters, B.: A punctured programming approach to adaptively secure
functional encryption. In: Gennaro, R., Robshaw, M. (eds.) CRYPTO
2015, Part II. LNCS, vol. 9216, pp. 678–697. Springer, Heidelberg (2015).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-48000-7_33
WZ17. Wichs, D., Zirdelis, G.: Obfuscating compute-and-compare programs
under LWE. In: Umans, C. (ed.) 58th FOCS, pp. 600–611. IEEE Computer
Society Press, October 2017
Yao86. Yao, A.C.C.: How to generate and exchange secrets (extended abstract).
In: 27th FOCS, pp. 162–167. IEEE Computer Society Press, October 1986

