COA-Secure Obfuscation
and Applications
Ran Canetti1, Suvradip Chakraborty2, Dakshita Khurana3,
Nishant Kumar3(B), Oxana Poburinnaya4, and Manoj Prabhakaran5
1 Boston University, Boston, USA
2 ETH Z¨urich, Z¨urich, Switzerland
3 UIUC, Champaign, USA
nkumar13@illinois.edu
4 Boston, USA
5 IIT Bombay, Mumbai, India
Abstract. We put forth a new paradigm for program obfuscation, where
obfuscated programs are endowed with proofs of “well formedness.” In
addition to asserting existence of an underlying plaintext program with
an attested structure, these proofs also prevent mauling attacks, whereby
an adversary surreptitiously creates an obfuscated program based on
secrets which are embedded in other obfuscated programs. We call this
new guarantee Chosen Obfuscation Attacks (COA) security.
We show how to enhance a large class of obfuscation mechanisms to
be COA-secure, assuming subexponentially secure IO for circuits and
subexponentially secure one-way functions. To demonstrate the power of
the new notion, we also use it to realize:
– A new form of software watermarking, which provides signiﬁcantly
broader protection than current schemes against counterfeits that
pass a keyless, public veriﬁcation process.
– Completely CCA encryption, which is a strengthening of completely
non-malleable encryption.
1
Introduction
General-purpose program obfuscation (developed in [3,7,13,16,17,20] and many
other works) holds great promise for enhancing the security of software: Soft-
ware can be distributed and executed without fear of exposing sensitive design
secrets or keys hidden in the code. Furthermore, when executing obfuscated
R. Canetti—Supported by the DARPA SIEVE project, contract No. #HR00112020023.
S. Chakraborty—Work done while at IST Austria; supported in part by ERC grant
724307.
D. Khurana and N. Kumar—Supported in part by DARPA SIEVE project contract
No. #HR00112020024, a gift from Visa Research, and a C3AI DTI award.
O. Poburinnaya—Work done in part while at Boston University.
M. Prabhakaran—Supported by a Ramanujan Fellowship and Joint Indo-Israel Project
DST/INT/ISR/P-16/2017 of Dept. of Science and Technology, India.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
O. Dunkelman and S. Dziembowski (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2022, LNCS 13275, pp. 731–758, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-06944-4_25

732
R. Canetti et al.
software, all intermediate states are guaranteed to remain hidden, even when
both the hardware and the software components of the underlying platform are
adversarial.
However, ubiquitous use of program obfuscation might actually make the
security of software worse in other respects: Verifying properties of an obfus-
cated program becomes harder - it is essentially reduced to black-box testing
the program. This is highly unsatisfactory, especially in situations where the
source of the program is untrusted. Indeed, the very property that makes obfus-
cation a boon for software creators - namely the ability to hide secrets both in
the code and in the functionality - is a bane for users of the software, unless
those users put complete trust in the creators.
Another concern is that the use of program obfuscation makes it harder to ver-
ify whether a given program depends on other programs in “illegitimate ways”,
where legitimacy (and lack thereof) relates to both structural and functional
dependence between programs. For instance, obfuscation might facilitate software
plagiarism by hiding the fact that program A runs some (potentially proprietary)
program B as a subroutine, without publicly disclosing this fact. Furthermore,
obfuscation might facilitate hiding the fact that program A is a mauled version
of B - i.e. that A’s functionality surrepetitiously depends on the functionality of
B. The latter can be a concern even regardless of how B is implemented.1
We deﬁne and realize a new notion of program obfuscation that addresses
the above concerns. However, before we present the new notion and some appli-
cations, we point out prior approaches. To the best of our knowledge, the only
existing general notion of obfuscation that provides the ability to verify prop-
erties of obfuscated programs is Veriﬁable Indistinguishability Obfuscation [2].
However, that notion provides only limited hiding guarantees: indistinguishabil-
ity of the obfuscated versions of two functionally equivalent programs is guaran-
teed only if there is a short witness of their equivalence. Furthermore, it provides
no guarantees against adversaries that maul honestly generated programs.
Mauling attacks have been considered in the context of non-malleability of
obfuscation. Thid has so far been studied only in the context of virtual black
box obfuscation of point functions and related functionalities [11,24] and is thus
susceptible to strong impossiblity results [4]. In particular, no generally viable
notion of non-malleable obfuscation has been proposed.
Defending against program plagiarism has been studied in the context of soft-
ware watermarking [4]. However, that line of work has concentrated on detecting
illicit programs that very closely preserve the functionality of the watermarked
program [12] (or else preserve some cryptographic use of it [18]), and does not
1 One might expect that existing notions of obfuscation, such as indistinguishability
obfuscation (IO), already defend against such mauling attacks. However, this expec-
tation fails for programs whose code includes random keys that aﬀect the functionality.
For instance, IO does not appear to rule out the possibility that an adversary, given
an obfuscated version of a puncturable pseudorandom function with a random key k,
manages to generate another obfuscated program that computes the same function
but with key (k + 1).

COA-Secure Obfuscation and Applications
733
address more general forms of plagiarism – e.g., generating a seemingly legiti-
mate obfuscated program that illicitly uses a given program as a subroutine, or
even changes some internal parameters while preserving the overall design.
1.1
Our Contributions
We ﬁrst summarize our main contributions and then elaborate on each one.
– Deﬁnitions: We show how to enhance a number of existing notions of program
obfuscation so as to provide a strong ﬂavor of veriﬁability, combined with
mitigating malleability attacks. We call such enhancement “security against
chosen obfuscation attacks” (or, COA security). For sake of speciﬁty, we also
formulate a self-contained notion of COA obfuscation which will be used
throughout this work.2
– Constructions: We construct COA obfuscation, assuming subexponentially
secure iO and one-way functions. More generally, we show how to enhance
(or, fortify) any one out of a class of measures of secure obfuscation to provide
COA security.
– Applications: COA-secure obfuscation is directly applicable in situations
where a user wishes to verify some properties regarding the structure and
functionality of a given obfuscated program. In addition, we use COA-secure
obfuscation to construct software watermarking mechanisms that provide a
new and powerful notion of security. Finally, we use COA-secure obfuscation
to construct a completely CCA-secure public-key encryption scheme, which is
a new notion of security that naturally strengthens completely non-malleable
public-key encryption [14], which in turn augments non-malleability to con-
sider mauling attacks against both the ciphertext and the public key.
1.2
Deﬁning COA Obfuscation
The ﬁrst main contribution of this work is in developing a security notion that
incorporates meaningful secrecy, veriﬁability, and non-malleability guarantees,
while still being realizable by general-purpose obfuscation algorithms. Several
challenges face such an endeavor.
First, to let the user verify various properties of the program, we would like
to emulate the eﬀect of having a one message proof attached to the obfuscated
program. Since we do not have any cryptographic setup, such a proof cannot be
zero-knowledge. Still, we would like to ensure that this proof does not reveal any-
thing about the program that is to be hidden by the obfuscation. We thus formu-
late a notion of hiding that’s intertwined with the functionality of the obfuscated
program.
Developing an appropriate notion of non-malleability proves equally challeng-
ing. In particular, it appears hard to eﬀectively capture mauling attacks on the
2 We also deﬁne a somewhat weaker variant, which only guarantees veriﬁability with-
out any non-malleability guarantees. We then realize this variant with a simpler
construction than the one used to obtain COA security. See more details in [8].

734
R. Canetti et al.
functionality of programs without resorting to “simulation-based” formalisms
(as done in [11,24]), which would in turn be subject to general impossibility
akin to VBB-obfuscation [4]. Indeed, an indistinguishability-based notion that
avoids the need for a simulator appears to be warranted in order to preserve
broad applicability.
We get around this diﬃculty by extending the notion of CCA-secure commit-
ments (namely, commitments that are secure against chosen commitment attacks
[9]) to our setting. Indeed, our notion (which is, in turn, a natural extension of
security against chosen ciphertext attacks for public-key encryption [27,28] to
the setting of obfuscation) provides the strongest-known viable form of non-
malleability for obfuscation schemes.
That is, we consider obfuscators O that take as input a program C along with
a predicate φ that represents some attestation on the structure and functionality
of C. Next, we augment the process of executing an obfuscated program with
an initial step aimed at verifying that this program “corresponds to a plaintext
program that satisﬁes φ.” Here, however, we somewhat relax the traditional
deterministic veriﬁcation process, and instead allow for randomized veriﬁcation
that, given a purported obfuscaed program ˆC, outputs either a reject symbol,
or else a fully functional program ˜C. We then require that: (a) whenever φ(C)
holds, V (O(C, φ), φ) = ˜C, where ˜C is functionally equivalent to C, and (b) For
all strings ˆC and predicates φ, the event where V ( ˆC, φ) = ˜C where ˜C ̸=⊥, and
there is no program C that is functionally equivalent to ˜C and such that φ(C)
holds, occurs only with negligible probability.
We stress that the above deﬁnition postulates a two-step randomized process
for generating a functional obfuscated program: the ﬁrst step is carried out by O,
while the second is carried out by V . Furthermore, while obfuscating a legitimate
program C (i.e. φ(C) = 1) always results with a program ˜C = V (O(C, φ), φ)
that is functionally equivalent to C, an adversarially generated string ˆC might
result in a random variable ˜C = V ( ˆC, φ) where diﬀerent draws from ˜C are
diﬀerent programs with completely diﬀerent functionalities. (Still φ( ˜C) holds
almost always.)3
Finally, we would like to require that, for “suﬃciently similar” programs
C0, C1, polytime adversaries be unable to distinguish O(C0, φ) from O(C1, φ), even
when given access to a de-obfuscation oracle O−1(·, φ). That is, we consider adver-
saries that are given a challenge program C∗= O(Cb, φ) for b ←{0, 1}, along with
access to an oracle O−1(·) that operates as follows: If ˆC = C∗or V ( ˆC, φ) =⊥, then
O−1( ˆC) =⊥. Else, O−1( ˆC) = C, where C is the lexicographically ﬁrst program
that’s functionally equivalent to ˆC and where φ(C) holds. The veriﬁcation guar-
antee implies that (w.h.p.) such a program exists when V ( ˆC, φ) ̸=⊥.
It remains to determine what makes programs C0, C1 “suﬃciently similar”.
Here we consider a number of variants, that correspond to existing notions of
security for plain obfuscation. One natural option, corresponding to plain iO,
considers any pair C0, C1 of equal-size, functionally equivalent programs.
3 Our randomized veriﬁcation step is borrowed from that of Non-Interactive Distribu-
tionally Indistinguishable (NIDI) arguments, as developed in [22]. Indeed, as there,
it appears to be an essential relaxation that is crucial for realizability.

COA-Secure Obfuscation and Applications
735
Another option, which turns out to be relatively simple to work in the context of
our applications, corresponds to a slight simpliﬁcation of the notion of obfucation
of probabilistic circuits, speciﬁcally X-Ind-pIO [10]. That is, we consider samplers
that sample triples (C0, C1, z), where C0 and C1 are programs and z is some aux-
iliary information. A sampler Samp is admissible for φ if both C0 and C1 satisfy φ,
and in addition any poly size adversary A, given z and oracle access to a program,
can tell whether this program is C0 or C1 only with sub-exponentially small advan-
tage over 1/2, when (C0, C1, z) ←Samp. An obfusator (O, V ) is COA Secure with
respect to predicate φ if any polytime adversary A′, that’s given C∗= O(Cb, φ),
z, where ((C0, C1, z) ←Samp, as well as oracle access to O−1(·), can guess b only
with advantage that’s polynomially related to that of A.
The intuition for why COA security guarantees non-malleability is the same
as in the case of CCA commitment and CCA encryption: An adversary that
manages to “maul” its challenge progrom ˆC into a program ˆC′ that passes
veriﬁcation and such that the preimages of the resulting ˜C and ˜C′ are related
in some non-trivial way, can readily use this ability to break COA security via
applying O−1( ˜C′) to obtain the plaintext program that is related to the preimage
of its challenge C∗. It is stressed that here the “non trivial relation” may include
both structural and functional properties of the plaintext programs.
1.3
Applications of COA Obfuscation
COA-secure obfuscation is clearly directly applicable in situations where a user
wishes to verify some properties regarding the structure and functionality of a
program that is otherwise obfuscated (hence “opaque”). We further demonstrate
the power of this notion via two applications: First, we deﬁne and construct a
new notion of program watermarking which, while being formally incomparable
with existing notions, signiﬁcantly pushes the envelope of what’s obtainable in
this context. Second, we deﬁne and construct a new notion of completely-CCA
secure encryption, nametly encryption that remain secure even in the presence
of an oracle that decrypts adversarially chosen ciphertexts with respect to adver-
sarially chosen public keys. In both cases, our constructions rely on COA-secure
obfuscation in a crucial way.
A New Approach to Software Watermarking. Existing formulations of water-
marking (e.g. [12,15]) concentrate on preventing the creation of “counterfeit”
programs that are close in functionality to the watermarked program and yet
remain unmarked. Instead, we propose a way to publicly detect any program that
stands in some pre-determined relation with the watermarked program, and is
unmarked (or carries a diﬀerent mark than the watermarked program). The new
notion is incomparable with the existing ones: On the one hand, the proposed
notion does not rule out the possibility of creating “jail-broken programs”, it
only guarantees that these programs will be detectable. Still, the detection algo-
rithm is ﬁxed and keyless, hence detection is inherently public and universal.
Furthermore, the new notion identiﬁes a signiﬁcantly larger class of “software
piracy” attackes, namely those attacks where the “forbidden similarity” between

736
R. Canetti et al.
the jail-broken program and the original program may be deﬁned via some pre-
determined relation that considers both the structure and the functionality of
the jail-broken program and the watermarked program.
More speciﬁcally, our proposed notion of watermarking, with respect to a
family C of programs and a relation R(·, ·), postulates a marking algorithm M
and a (randomized) veriﬁcation algorithm V with the following properties. The
watermarking party chooses a program C from the family C, along with a mark
m, and applies M to obtain a watermarked program ˆC such that:
(a) V ( ˆC) = ( ˜C, m), where ˜C is functionally equivalent to C. (That is, ˆC passes
veriﬁcation, bears the mark m, and results in a program that’s functionally
equivalent to the original.)
(b) Any adversarially generated program ˆC′ where V ( ˆC′) = ( ˜C′, m′) and such
that there exists a program C′ that’s functionally equivalent to ˜C′ and such that
R(C, C′) holds, must have m′ = m except for negligible probability. (That is, if
ˆC′ passes veriﬁcation and the resulting program ˜C has a functionally equivalent
”plaintext” program C′ that stands in the speciﬁed relation with C, then ˆC′ has
to bear the mark m.)
We note that this notion is very general, and in particular prevents potential
plagiarism where the plagiarized program has very diﬀerent functionality than
the watermarked one, and yet uses the watermarked program as a subroutine or
otherwise incorporates it in its code.
We then use subexponential COA obfuscation to construct watermarking
schemes for any function family C and relation R where:
(a) the description of a program C ←C is “one way” with respect to the func-
tionality of the program (i.e. the description is uniquely determined, yet hard
to eﬃciently extract, given suﬃciently many input-output pairs), and:
(b) R is such that whenever R(C, C′) holds, knowledge of C′ enables breaking the
one wayness of C. That is, there is an algorithm that computes the description
of C, given only C′ and oracle access to C. As a concrete example, we consider
watermarking a PRF, where the relation R holds only if two PRF circuits use the
same key; relying on a “key-injective” PRF, this can be extended to a relation
R that holds whenever two PRFs agree on their outputs for some input.
Application to Completely CCA Encryption. We formulate a new notion of secu-
rity for public key encryption, which we call completely CCA (CCCA) secure
encryption. Our new notion of security provides a strong form of non-malleability
for encryption schemes, and is a stronger variant of the notion of completely
non-malleable encryption of Fischlin [14]. The latter notion of secure encryp-
tion scheme rules out non-malleability even when a man-in-the-middle adver-
sary”mauls” an honest (public-key, ciphertext) pair to produce a new public key
and a new ciphertext where the corresponding plaintext is related to the original
plaintext (according to some relation R).
Informally, our notion of completely CCA security strengthens CCA security
(rather than plain non-malleability) by allowing the adversary to have access
to a strong decryption oracle. The adversary can query this decryption ora-
cle adaptively with diﬀerent (possibly related) combinations of public keys and

COA-Secure Obfuscation and Applications
737
ciphertexts. The decryption oracle brute-force ﬁnds a message and randomness
string corresponding to the queried public-key/ciphertext pair (and if no such
pair exists, it it returns a ⊥). The security requirement is that the adversary
must not be able to break CPA-security for a challenge public-key ciphertext
pair even given unbounded queries to this oracle (as long as it does not query
the oracle on the challenge pair).
As shown by Fischlin [14], even his (weaker) notion of completely non-malleable
encryption is impossible to realize with respect to black-box simulation in the plain
model (i.e., without any trusted setup assumptions). In this work we show, surpris-
ingly, that it is possible to construct completely CCA-2 secure encryption (and
hence completely non-malleable encryption) in the plain model from COA obfus-
cation. While the reduction is BB, the bound is avoided by the fact that we need
sub-exponential assumptions to construct COA obfuscation to begin with.
Let us provide more detail about the new notion of CCCA encryption. We
ﬁrst formulate a strong variant of completely non-malleable encryption in the
spirit of CCA-secure commitments. In this variant, the adversary has access to
a standard decryption oracle (with respect to adversarially generated ciphertext
and the original secret key), and also has access to an oracle that, essentially,
takes an adversarially generated public key pk and ciphertext c, and returns a
plaintext m such that c could potentially the result of encrypting m with public
key pk (and some random string). We note that this is a very strong primitive,
that in particular implies both completely non-malleable encryption and CCA-
secure commitment.
We then show that the Sahai-Waters CCA secure encryption [29], when the
obfuscation algorithm is COA-secure (with respect to a predicate φ that attests
for the correct structure of the obfuscated program), rather than plain iO, is
completely CCA secure.
We provide two alternative proofs of security of this scheme. One proof follows
a blueprint similar to that of [29], with one major diﬀerence: when the adversary
A queries the decryption oracle with a public-key ciphertext pair ( ˜pk, c) then:
– If ˜pk matches the challenge public key, then there is a direct reduction to the
Sahai-Waters game.
– If ˜pk is diﬀerent from the challenge public key, then the reduction uses the
COA deobfuscation oracle to decrypt the ciphertext c. In more details, the
reduction ﬁrst invokes cO.Ver on ˜pk to obtain some program ˜P. The veriﬁa-
bility property of cO guarantees that if ˜P ̸=⊥, then there must be a program
P ′ such that ˜P = iO(P ′; r). Since, we assume iO is injective, the reduction
can then use the deobfuscation oracle O−1 on ˜P to recover P ′. Now, from
this plaintext program P ′ it is possible to extract “secret” PRF keys (K1, K2)
by reading the description of P ′ (this is possible since our COA fortiﬁcation
is deﬁned for circuits that have some PRF keys embedded). These secret keys
can then be used to decrypt c.
The second proof directly uses the notion of COA-secure obfuscation: We
formulate an admissible sampler where each sample consists of two instances of
the encryption program in the public key, along with an auxiliary input that

738
R. Canetti et al.
enables the adversary to obtain a challenge ciphertext c∗where embedded in
c∗depends on whether one has access to the ﬁrst or the second instance of the
encryption program. We then argue that:
(a) when the encryption programs are given as oracles, it is infeasible to distin-
guish the two cases, thus the sampler is admissible. (Here we essentially use the
fact that the underlying symmetric encryption scheme is CCA.) We conclude
that a even a COA adversary, that has access to the COA-obfuscated version of
one of the two copies of the encryption algorithm, along with the same auxiliary
input a de-obfuscation oracle, is still unable to distinguish the two cases.
(b) On the other hand, A CCCA attack against the scheme can be simulated by
a COA adversary that has access to a COA-secure obfuscation of one of the two
instances of the encryption algorithm, to the same auxiliary input as before, and
to a de-obfuscation oracle that’s used to respond to the de-encryption queries of
the CCCA attacker. This means that such CCCA attack must fail.
1.4
Constructing COA Obfuscation
Before sketching our construction for COA obfuscation, it will be helpful to set
aside the non-malleability requirement, and consider only the simpler question of
fortifying an obfuscation scheme to obtain veriﬁability. Let O be an obfuscator,
and let φ be an eﬃciently computable predicate on programs. Recall that the ver-
iﬁable version of O with respect to φ is a pair of algorithms (vO.Obf, vO.Verify)
such that the following holds:
– Correctness: For any program C such that φ(C) holds, if ˆC ←vO.Obf(C) and
C ←vO.Verify( ˆC), then we have that C and C are functionally equivalent.
That is, vO.Verify ”accepts” ˆC as C.
– Veriﬁability: Conversely, if C is the result of vO.Verify( ˆC) for some string ˆC,
then, except with negligible probability, there exists a program C such that
φ(C) holds and C is functionally equivalent to C, or more precisely, that C
is in the image of O(C).
– Obfuscation: vO guarantees the same level of indistinguishability as O.
That is, there exists an eﬃcient transformation from distinguishers between
vO.Obf(C1) and vO.Obf(C2), to distinguishers between O(C1) and O(C2),
for any distribution over pairs of programs C1, C2 ∈F that satisfy φ.
(The formal deﬁnition considers distribution over (C1, C2, z) where z is auxil-
iary information that will be given to the distinguishers. Also, we shall permit
the transformation to suﬀer a (possibly sub-exponential) quantitative loss in
the level of indistinguishability.)
A useful interpretation of the pair of algorithms (vO.Obf, vO.Verify) is that
they together implement O. An intriguing side-eﬀect of this is that the honest
vO obfuscator (who runs vO.Obf) does not necessarily know the ﬁnal obfuscated
program C generated by vO.Verify, though it knows that it is of the form O(C).
On the other hand, if the obfuscator is malicious, it could control the outcome
of vO.Verify to be ﬁxed, or alternately, ensure that diﬀerent runs of vO.Verify

COA-Secure Obfuscation and Applications
739
results in obfuscations of diﬀerent programs (without violating the veriﬁabil-
ity condition). These “relaxations” of vO may appear inconsequential, since an
honest obfuscator is only interested in ﬁxing the functionality, and on the other
hand, a malicious obfuscator could have randomly chosen the program it wants
to obfuscate. But as we see below, these relaxations are crucial to realizing ver-
iﬁability fortiﬁcation.
Exploiting NIDI for Veriﬁability. A natural approach to obtaining veriﬁabil-
ity would be to attach some form of a non-interactive proof to the obfuscated
program, proving that it was constructed as O(C) for some C such that φ(C)
holds. Unfortunately, NIZK is impossible without a trusted setup. The next best
option would be to use a non-interactive witness indistinguishable (NIWI) proof
system, which can indeed be realized without a setup [5,6,19], under a variety
of assumptions. Indeed, this was the approach taken in [2]. However, since a
NIWI proof can hide a witness only if alternate witnesses are available, attach-
ing a NIWI to O(C) directly does not suﬃce; instead, [2] cleverly combines three
obfuscations with a NIWI which only proves that two of them correspond to func-
tionally equivalent programs, both satisfying the predicate (this necessitates the
veriﬁable-equivalence restriction). By evaluating the three programs and taking
the majority, the user is assured that they are using a valid O(C). Also, the
variable witnesses introduced suﬃces to prevent the NIWI from breaking the
indistinguishability guarantee that iO provides for pairs of functionally equiva-
lent circuits. Unfortunately, this approach is closely tied to the speciﬁc hiding
guarantee of iO, limited to functionally equivalent circuits, and further adds a
technical requirement that there should be a short witness to the equivalence.
The relaxations we build into vO enable an alternative. Speciﬁcally, instead
of attaching a proof to (one or more) programs, vO.Verify is allowed to sample
a program and a proof. This enables us to use a proof system which lets the
veriﬁer sample a statement and a proof together, where the statement comes
from a distribution determined by the prover. Such a proof system was recently
introduced in [22], under the name of Non-Interactive Distributionally Indis-
tinguishable (NIDI) arguments. The hiding property that NIDI oﬀers is that
as long as two statement distributions are indistinguishable from each other,
then adding the proofs does not break the indistinguishability (by more than a
sub-exponential factor). With a statement distribution corresponding to O(C),
we can directly use the prover and veriﬁer in a NIDI argument as vO.Obf and
vO.Verify.
COA Security Fortiﬁcation. For deﬁning COA-security fortiﬁcation, we consider
an injective obfuscator O, where injectivity means that the obfuscator does not
map two distinct programs to the same obfuscated program. While this property
may naturally be present in obfuscators with perfect functionality preservation,
it is easy to add this to an obfuscator (without aﬀecting hiding properties) by
simply attaching a perfectly binding commitment of a program to the obfusca-
tion. The reason we shall consider the given obfuscator O to be injective is so
that we will be able to unambiguously refer to a de-obfuscation oracle.

740
R. Canetti et al.
Given an injective obfuscator O, a COA fortiﬁcation of O, denoted cO =
(cO.Obf, cO.Ver) is a pair of eﬃcient algorithms satisfying the following proper-
ties:
– Correctness: This is similar to that in the case of veriﬁability fortiﬁcation,
except that there is no requirement for the obfuscated to satisfy any predicate.
That is, for any program C, if ˆC ←cO.Obf(C), then we have that C ←
cO.Ver( ˆC) such that C is functionally equivalent to C.
– Veriﬁability: Again, this property is similar to that in the case of veriﬁability
fortiﬁcation, except for the predicate. That is, if C ←cO.Ver( ˆC) then, except
with negligible probability, C is in the codomain of O(C).
– COA-secure obfuscation: COA-security is deﬁned analogous to how CCA
security is deﬁned for encryption or (more appropriately) commitment. Con-
sider an adversary who tries to guess b ←{1, 2} from ˆC, where ˆC ←
cO.Obf(Cb), and (C1, C2) are a pair of programs. In a chosen obfuscation
attack (COA), the adversary can create purported obfuscations ˆC′ ̸= ˆC and
have them de-obfuscated as O−1(cO.Ver( ˆC′)). Note that we require O to
be injective so that O−1 is well-deﬁned (it outputs ⊥if the input is not in
the codomain of O). Any advantage that the adversary has in guessing b
with access to this deobfuscation oracle should translate to a distinguishing
advantage between O(C1) and O(C2) (without a deobfuscation oracle).
COA-Security Fortiﬁcation from Robust NIDI. Our COA-security fortiﬁcation
uses non-interactive CCA-secure commitments, as well as NIDI arguments.
CCA-secure commitments were introduced by [9], and a non-interactive con-
struction based on NIDI arguments was given in [22], which suﬃces for our
purposes. However, for the NIDI arguments used in our construction, we need
a stronger security guarantee than in [22], namely robustness – a term that we
borrow from [9] where it was used in a similar sense. A robust NIDI w.r.t. an
oracle O retains its indistinguishability preservation guarantee for distinguishers
that have access to O. We discuss the construction of robust NIDI soon after
describing COA fortiﬁcation.
Our COA-security fortiﬁcation cO uses a non-interactive CCA-secure com-
mitment scheme , and NIDI arguments for NP that are robust against the decom-
mitment oracle for , . The obfuscation cO.Obf(C) generates a robust NIDI proof
C for the language consisting of pairs ( C, c) where C ←O(C) and c ←, (C).
Note that C is ﬁxed, but only the distribution over ( C, c) is determined by
the NIDI prover (obfuscator). The veriﬁer cO.Ver( C) runs the NIDI veriﬁer to
transform C into a pair ( C, c) (or rejects it), and then outputs C. Note that
the CCA-secure commitment c is simply discarded by the veriﬁer. The role of
this commitment is, in the proof of security, to allow running a COA adversary
– which expects access to the oracle O−1 ◦cO.Ver – using the decommitment
oracle for com.
Constructing Robust NIDI. Our construction of a robust NIDI follows the outline
in [22], except that we instantiate all primitives with those that retain their

COA-Secure Obfuscation and Applications
741
security guarantees in the presence of the oracle O. In what follows, we outline
this construction.
In a nutshell, a NIDI consists of an iO-obfuscated program that obtains as
input the ﬁrst message of an appropriate two-message proof system (satisfying
ZK with superpolynomial simulation), and outputs a statement sampled from
the input distribution, together with a proof. In [22], it was shown that the
resulting system hides the distribution from which statements are sampled. Our
construction of robust NIDIs modiﬁes this template by requiring the underlying
iO and ZK proof to be secure in the presence of the oracle O. For any oracle with
a ﬁnite truth table, we achieve this by assuming subexponential security of the
underlying primitives, e.g., by setting the iO security parameter large enough
such that iO becomes secure against adversaries that store the underlying truth
table.
2
Preliminaries
We use x ←S to denote uniform sampling of x from the set S. [n] is used to
denote the set {1, 2, . . . n}. For x, y ∈{0, 1}n, x ◦y denotes the inner product of
x, y, i.e. if x = x[1 . . . n], y = y[1 . . . n], x ◦y = 
i∈[n] xi · yi. Functional equiv-
alance of two circuits C1, C2 is denoted by C1 ≡C2. We refer to a circuit class
as C = {Cκ}κ∈N, where Cκ consists of a set of circuits. In addition, whenever we
consider a circuit class, we assume that it has a corresponding eﬃcient predicate
to check membership in the class, i.e. for circuit class C = {Cκ}κ∈N, there is a
corresponding eﬃcient predicate φC s.t. φC(κ, C) = 1 if C ∈Cκ and 0 otherwise.
For a distribution D on domain X, Supp(D) denotes the support of D on X. We
deﬁne puncturable PRFs and key-injectivity for puncturable PRFs below:
Deﬁnition 1 (Puncturable
PRF).
For
sets
{0, 1}n
and
{0, 1}m,
a
puncturable
PRF
with
key
space
K
consists
of
a
tuple
of
algorithms
(PRF.Eval, PRF.Puncture, PRF.pEval) that satisfy the following two conditions.
– Functionality preserving under puncturing. For every x∗∈{0, 1}n,
every x ∈{0, 1}n \ {x∗}, and all K ∈K, we have: PRF.Eval(K, x) =
PRF.pEval(K{x∗}, x), where K{x∗} ←PRF.Puncture(K, x∗).
– Pseudorandomness at punctured points. For every x∗∈{0, 1}n, every
x ∈{0, 1}n \ {x∗}, and any PPT adversary A, it holds that
 Pr [A(K{x∗}, PRF.Eval(K, x∗)) = 1] −Pr[A(K{x∗}, Uk) = 1]
 = negl(κ),
where K ←K, K{x∗} ←PRF.Puncture(K, x∗), and Uk is the uniform distri-
bution over {0, 1}k.
2.1
Non-Interactive Distributionally Indistinguishable (NIDI)
Arguments
In a NIDI argument [22] for an NP language L, the prover algorithm P is given a
distribution D for sampling member-witness pairs, and it generates a program π

742
R. Canetti et al.
which can be used (by the veriﬁer algorithm V) to veriﬁably generate a member
of the language L. The hiding property of a NIDI is that if two distributions D1
and D2 are such that the members they generate are indistinguishable from each
other (when the witnesses are held back), then the program π generated by the
NIDI prover remains similarly indistinguishable, upto a “gap” ϵ. We formally
recall the deﬁnition of this primitive from [22] below.
Deﬁnition 2 (Non-Interactive
Distributionally-Indistinguishable
(NIDI) Arguments).
A pair of PPT algorithms (P, V) is a non-interactive
distributionally-indistinguishable (NIDI) argument for NP language L with asso-
ciated relation RL if there exist non-interactive algorithms P and V that satisfy:
– Completeness: For every poly(κ)-sampleable distribution4 D = (X, W) over
instance-witness pairs in RL such that Supp(X) ⊆L,
π ∈Supp (P(1κ, D)) =⇒V(1κ, π) ∈Supp(X).
– Soundness:
For every ensemble of polynomial-length strings {πκ}κ there
exists a negligible function μ such that
Pr
x←V(1κ,πκ)

(x ̸= ⊥) ∧(x ̸∈L)] ≤μ(κ).
– ϵ-Gap Distributional Indistinguishability:
There exists an eﬃcient
transformation T on distinguishers such that for every poly(κ)-sampleable
pair of distributions D0 = (X0, W0) and D1 = (X1, W1) over instance-witness
pairs in RL where Supp(X0) ∪Supp(X1) ⊆L, and every distinguisher D with
 Pr[D(P(1κ, D0)) = 1] −Pr[D(P(1κ, D1)) = 1]
 = ν(κ)
the distinguisher D′ = T(D) satisﬁes:
 Pr[D′(X0) = 1] −Pr[D′(X1) = 1]
 ≥ϵ(κ) · ν(κ).
We have the following theorem from [22].
Theorem 1. Assuming the existence of sub-exponentially secure one-way func-
tions and sub-exponentially secure indistinguishability obfuscation, there exist
NIDI arguments satisfying ϵ-gap distributional indistinguishability, for every
ϵ(κ) = 2−o(logc κ), for a constant c > 1.
4 Here, we slightly abuse notation and use D to also denote a circuit that on input
uniform randomness, outputs a sample from the distribution D.

COA-Secure Obfuscation and Applications
743
2.2
CCA Commitments
A chosen-commitment attack (CCA) secure commitment scheme [9] is a com-
mitment scheme, which remains hiding for commitments even in the presence of
a (computationally ineﬃcient) “decommitment oracle” cca.DeCom that opens
all commitments that do not match the challenge commitment. For the decom-
mitment oracle to be well-deﬁned, we shall require that the commitment is per-
fectly binding: for all r0, r1 and m0 ̸= m1 we have that cca.Com(m0; r0) ̸=
cca.Com(m1; r1).
A CCA secure commitment scheme is parameterized by a message length
M = M(κ); we shall consider the message space to be {0, 1}M, where M is
polynomial. As deﬁned below, a non-interactive CCA commitment scheme con-
sists of an eﬃcient randomized algorithm cca.Com (with an implicit “canoni-
cal opening”). We let cca.DeCom denote the function that maps an output of
cca.Com to the message underlying it (or ⊥if no such message exists).
Deﬁnition 3. An ϵ(κ)-secure non-interactive CCA commitment scheme over
a message space {0, 1}M(κ) consists of a randomized algorithm cca.Com and a
deterministic algorithm cca.DeCom, satisfying the following.
– Correctness. For all m ∈{0, 1}M and r ∈{0, 1}∗we have that
cca.DeCom(cca.Com(1κ, m; r)) = m.
(This implies perfect binding.)
– Eﬃciency. cca.Com runs in time poly(κ), while cca.DeCom runs in time
2O(κ).
– ϵ(κ)-Security. For a message m ∈{0, 1}M and a distinguisher D, let
pcca
D,m =
Pr
c←cca.Com(1κ,m)[Dcca.DeCom ◦Filtc(1κ, c) = 1],
where Filtc is the identity function on all inputs except c, on which it outputs
⊥. Then, for all polynomials s there is a negligible function ν such that, for
all m1, m2 ∈{0, 1}M and all distinguishers D of size at most s(κ),
pcca
D,m1 −pcca
D,m2
 ≤ϵ(κ)ν(κ).
We rely on a recent construction of non-interactive CCA commitments
from [22].
Theorem 2 ([22]).
Assuming
sub-exponentially
secure
indistinguishability
obfuscation and either
– Sub-exponential (classical) hardness of DDH and sub-exponential quantum
hardness of LWE (as used in [21]), or
– Sub-exponential time-lock puzzles based on the RSW assumption (as used
in [26])
there exist non-interactive CCA commitments satisfying Deﬁnition 3.
The assumptions in the aforementioned theorem can also be reduced by using
time-lock puzzles based on iO and the existence of hard-to-parallelize languages.

744
R. Canetti et al.
2.3
Obfuscation
An obfuscator O is a randomized program that probabilistically maps a circuit
from some family {Cκ}κ∈N to another functionally equivalent circuit. We shall
require an obfuscator to satisfy the following correctness and eﬃciency properties
(with probability 1):
Functionality Preservation. For all κ ∈N and all C ∈Cκ, O(1κ, C) ≡C
(where ≡indicates that the two circuits are functionally equivalent).
Polynomial Slowdown. There exists a polynomial p such that for all κ ∈N
and all C ∈Cκ, |O(1κ, C)| ≤p(|C|) (where | · | denotes the size of a circuit).
Eﬃcient Obfuscation. O is a polynomial time algorithm. Generally, we shall
also assume that the circuits in Cκ are of size at most polynomial in κ.
Security. For a sampler Samp and a distinguisher D, we deﬁne, for b ∈{1, 2},
pSamp,b
O,D
:= Pr (C1,C2,z)←Samp(1κ)

C←O(1κ,Cb)

D( C, z) = 1

and
AdvSamp
O,D :=
pSamp,1
O,D
−pSamp,2
O,D

(1)
Then, an obfuscator O is said to be (S, D) secure, if for all Samp ∈S and D ∈D,
AdvSamp
O,D is negligible. In particular, for indistinguishability obfuscation (iO), S is
the class of samplers which output (C1, C2, z) where C1 ≡C2 and z = (C1, C2),
and D consists of all PPT distinguishers.
Following [10],5 below we deﬁne a class of samplers, called admissible sam-
plers, that only requires that it is (very) hard for a PPT adversary to distinguish
between oracle access to C1 and to C2. Here the distinguishing probability is
required to be negligible even after amplifying by a factor of 2κ, with κ being
the number of bits of inputs for the circuits.
Deﬁnition 4 (Admissible Samplers). For any adversary A, and b ∈{1, 2},
let
pSamp,b,κ
A
:=
Pr
(C1,C2,z)←Samp(1κ)

ACb(z) = 1
	
and
AdvSamp,κ
A
:=
pSamp,1,κ
A
−pSamp,2,κ
A
.
A sampler Samp over C = {Cκ}κ∈N where all C ∈Cκ take κ-bit inputs, is called
admissible if there exists a negligible function μ s.t. for any non-uniform PPT
adversary A, AdvSamp,κ
A
≤μ(κ) · 2−κ, for all suﬃciently large κ.
5 Admissible samplers are a special case of X-Ind sampler deﬁned in [10], where it
is parametrized by a function X(κ) ≤2κ. The deﬁnition of admissible samplers
corresponds to setting X(κ) = 2κ and restricting to (deterministic) circuits taking
κ-bit inputs.

COA-Secure Obfuscation and Applications
745
We shall refer to an obfuscation scheme with respect to such admissible
samplers as a pIO scheme. As shown in [10], assuming the existence of sub-
exponentially secure iO and sub-exponentially secure puncturable PRFs, pIO
schemes exist for any polynomial sized circuit family, that is secure against a
class D of sub-exponential time distinguishers.
Next we deﬁne injective obfuscators.
Deﬁnition 5 (Injective Obfuscator). An obfuscator O for a circuit family
{Cκ}κ∈N is said to be injective if ∀κ1, κ2, C1, C2
O(1κ1, C1; r1) = O(1κ2, C2; r2) ̸= ⊥⇒C1 = C2.
We remark that it is easy to convert any obfuscator into an injective obfuscator
(without aﬀecting its hiding properties) simply by attaching a perfectly binding
commitment of the circuit to its original obfuscation.
3
New Deﬁnitions
We deﬁne COA-secure obfuscation in Sect. 3.1, and Veriﬁability/COA fortiﬁca-
tion for obfuscations in Sects. 3.2 and 3.3 respectively. Towards this, ﬁrst, we
will need the following deﬁnition of circuit samplers.
Deﬁnition 6 (φ-Satisfying Samplers).
Let C = {Cκ}κ∈N be a circuit class
and φ be a predicate. We say that a randomized algorithm Samp is a φ-satisfying
sampler over C if, for all large enough κ, Samp(1κ) outputs (C1, C2, z) such that,
with probability 1, C1, C2 ∈Cκ and, φ(C1) = φ(C2) = 1.
3.1
COA-Secure Obfuscation
Deﬁnition 7 (Admissible φ-satisfying Samplers).
A sampler algorithm
Samp(1κ) is an admissible φ-satisfying sampler over C if it is both admissible
(according to Deﬁnition 4) and φ-satisfying (according to Deﬁnition 6) over C.
Deﬁnition 8 (COA-Secure Obfuscation).
A COA-secure obfuscation for
a circuit class C = {Cκ}κ∈N w.r.t. a predicate φ is a pair of PPT algorithms
(cO.Obf, cO.Ver) deﬁned as follows6:
– cO.Obf(1κ, C, φ) →C. This takes as input the security parameter κ, a circuit
C ∈Cκ, a predicate φ, and outputs an encoding C.
– cO.Ver(1κ, C, φ) →{ C ∪⊥}. This takes as input a string C, a predicate φ,
and outputs either a circuit C or a reject symbol ⊥.
These algorithms satisfy the following correctness, veriﬁability and security prop-
erties.
6 Both the algorithms cO.Obf and cO.Ver take as input a predicate. This is to capture
the uniformity of the algorithms w.r.t. φ.

746
R. Canetti et al.
– Perfect Correctness. For every κ ∈N and circuit C ∈Cκ s.t. φ(C) = 1,
if C ←cO.Ver(1κ, cO.Obf(1κ, C, φ), φ), then C ≡C.
– Veriﬁability. For every ensemble of polynomial-length strings {Πκ}κ∈N,
there exists a negligible function ν(·) such that:
Pr

C←cO.Ver(1κ,Πκ,φ)

C ̸= ⊥∧

∄C ∈Cκ : φ(C) = 1 ∧C ≡C

= ν(κ).
– COA Security. Let O be an oracle deﬁned as follows: O(κ, C) outputs the
lexicographically ﬁrst circuit C ∈Cκ such that φ(C) = 1 and C is functionally
equivalent to C.
For any sampler algorithm Samp, and an oracle distinguisher D, for b ∈
{1, 2}, let
qSamp,b,κ
cO,D
:=
Pr
(C1,C2,z)←Samp(1κ)

C←cO.Obf(1κ,Cb,φ)

DO(κ,·) ◦cO.Ver(1κ,·,φ) ◦Filt 
C(1κ, C, z) = 1

,
COAAdvSamp,κ
cO,D
:=
qSamp,1,κ
cO,D
−qSamp,2,κ
cO,D

where Filt 
C denotes a function that behaves as the identity function on all
inputs except C, on which it outputs ⊥.
Then for every admissible φ-satisfying sampler Samp (according to Deﬁni-
tion 7) and any non-uniform PPT distinguisher D, there exists a negligible
function μ(·), s.t. COAAdvSamp,κ
cO,D
= μ(κ).
While the above deﬁnition of COA security is w.r.t. admissible samplers,
we can also deﬁne COA security more generally as an add-on for obfuscation
schemes O whose security could be w.r.t. other samplers. Before presenting this
notion of fortifying any obfuscation scheme with COA security, we introduce a
simpler (but already useful) notion of fortifying an obfuscation scheme by adding
veriﬁability.
3.2
Veriﬁability Fortiﬁcation for Obfuscation
Given an obfuscation scheme O, we shall deﬁne its veriﬁability fortiﬁcation w.r.t.
a predicate φ as a pair of algorithms (vO.Obf, vO.Verify). The veriﬁcation algo-
rithm guarantees that, given a string Π (purportedly generated by vO.Obf), if
C ←vO.Verify(Π) and C ̸= ⊥, then there exists a circuit C which satisﬁes the
predicate φ s.t. C = O(C; r) for some randomness r.
Deﬁnition 9 (Veriﬁability Fortiﬁcation for Obfuscation).
Let O be an
obfuscator for a circuit class C = {Cκ}κ∈N and φ be an eﬃciently computable
predicate on circuits. An ϵ-gap veriﬁability fortiﬁcation of O w.r.t. φ, is a tuple
of PPT algorithms vO = (vO.Obf, vO.Verify) that satisfy the following:
– Correctness. For every κ ∈N and every circuit C ∈Cκ, such that φ(C) = 1,
Pr

C←vO.Verify(1κ,vO.Obf(1κ,C,φ),φ)
[ C ≡C] = 1.

COA-Secure Obfuscation and Applications
747
– Veriﬁability. For every ensemble of polynomial-length strings {Πκ}κ∈N,
there exists a negligible function ν(·) such that:
Pr

C←vO.Verify(1κ,Πκ,φ)

C ̸= ⊥∧

∄(C ∈Cκ, r) : φ(C) = 1 ∧C = O(C; r)

= ν(κ).
– ϵ-Gap Indistinguishability of Obfuscated Circuits. There exists an
eﬃcient transformation T (on distinguisher circuits) such that for any φ-
satisfying sampler Samp (Deﬁnition 6) over {Cκ}κ and distinguisher D,
AdvSamp
O,T (D) ≥ϵ(κ) · AdvSamp
vO.Obf,D
where AdvSamp
O′,D′ (for (O′, D′) = (O, T (D)) or (vO.Obf, D)) is as deﬁned in
(1).
3.3
COA Fortiﬁcation for Obfuscation
We now deﬁne COA fortiﬁcation cO for an obfuscation scheme O w.r.t. a predi-
cate φ. Apart from the natural correctness property, we require that cO satisﬁes
veriﬁability w.r.t. predicate φ just like veriﬁability fortiﬁcation. In addition, we
want cO to satisfy “gap COA security”, which intuitively means that any dis-
tinguisher D that distiguishes between cO.Obf(C1) and cO.Obf(C2) given access
to a circuit deobfuscation oracle can be converted to a distinguisher that distin-
guishes O(C1) from O(C2) without access to any oracle. In our construction, our
transformation between distinguishers is not necessarily of polynomial size in the
security parameter κ – therefore, in addition to ϵ as before, we parameterize the
gap security in our deﬁnition by T = T(κ) to capture the (in)eﬃciency of this
transformation.
Deﬁnition 10 (COA Fortiﬁcation for Injective Obfuscators). Let O be
an injective obfuscator for a circuit class C = {Cκ}κ∈N and φ be an eﬃciently
computable predicate on circuits. A (T, ϵ)-gap COA fortiﬁcation of O w.r.t. φ is
a pair of PPT algorithms cO = (cO.Obf, cO.Ver) as follows:
– cO.Obf(1κ, C, φ) →C. This is a randomized algorithm that on input security
parameter κ, a circuit C ∈Cκ, and a predicate φ, outputs an encoding C.
– cO.Ver(1κ, C, φ) →{ C ∪⊥}. This is a randomized algorithm that on input
security parameter κ, a string C, and a predicate φ, outputs either a circuit
C or a reject symbol ⊥.
These algorithms satisfy the following correctness and security properties.
– Perfect Correctness. For every κ ∈N and every circuit C ∈Cκ such that
φ(C) = 1,
Pr

C←cO.Ver(1κ,cO.Obf(1κ,C,φ),φ)
[∃r s.t. C = O(1κ, C; r)] = 1

748
R. Canetti et al.
– Veriﬁability. For every ensemble of polynomial-length strings {Πκ}κ∈N,
there exists a negligible function ν(·) such that:
Pr

C←cO.Ver(1κ,Πκ,φ)

C ̸= ⊥∧

∄(C ∈Cκ, r) : φ(C) = 1 ∧C = O(1κ, C; r)

= ν(κ).
– (T, ϵ)-Gap
Security. Let
O−1( C)
=

C
if ∃(C ∈Cκ, r) s.t. C = O(1κ, C; r)
⊥
otherwise.
(well-deﬁned since O is injective). For any φ-satisfying sampler Samp (see
Deﬁnition 6), and an oracle circuit D, for b ∈{1, 2}, let
qSamp,b
cO,D
:=
Pr
(C1,C2,z)←Samp(1κ)

C←cO.Obf(1κ,Cb,φ)

DO−1◦cO.Ver(1κ,·,φ) ◦Filt 
C(1κ, C, z) = 1

COAAdvSamp
cO,D :=
qSamp,1
cO,D
−qSamp,2
cO,D

where Filt 
C denotes a function that behaves as the identity function on all
inputs except C, on which it outputs ⊥.
Then, there exists a T-sized transformation T (on distinguisher circuits) such
that for any admissible sampler Samp over {Cκ}κ and distinguisher D,
AdvSamp
O,T (D) ≥ϵ(κ) · COAAdvSamp
cO,D
where AdvSamp
O,T (D) is as deﬁned in (1).
Remark 1. One could consider a (possibly) stronger deﬁnition that allows the
sampler Samp used in deﬁning COAAdvSamp
cO,D to also make de-obfuscation queries.
We note that for worst-case indistinguishability notions for O (like iO), this does
not make any diﬀerence, as the (non-uniform) sampler can output the optimal
pair of circuits.
Remark 2. We remark that for any T = T(κ) ≥poly(κ), any ϵ = ϵ(κ) ≤negl(κ),
(T, ϵ)-gap COA fortiﬁcation for any injective (T, ϵ)-secure pIO implies COA-
secure obfuscation according to Deﬁnition 8. Here (T, ϵ)-security indicates that
the advantage of any poly(T)-sized adversary in the pIO security game is at most
negl(ϵ).
4
Robust NIDI
Robust NIDI arguments w.r.t. an oracle O are an extension of NIDI arguments
(Deﬁnition 2), whereby the gap distributional indistinguishability requirement
of NIDI is further strengthened to hold even if the distinguisher has access to
the oracle O. (The completeness and soundness guarantees remain unchanged.)
In other words, any distinguisher DO, distinguishing the proofs generated by
prover P on input the distributions on instance-witness pairs - D0 = (X0, W0)
or D1 = (X1, W1), can be converted to an eﬃcient distinguisher T(D)O which
distinguishes the underlying instances X0 or X1 upto a “gap” ϵ. We formally
deﬁne the same below.

COA-Secure Obfuscation and Applications
749
Deﬁnition 11 (Robust NIDI Arguments). Let L be an NP language with
an associated relation RL, and O be an arbitrary oracle. A NIDI argument for
L, (P, V) is said to be robust w.r.t. O if it satisﬁes the following:
– ϵ-Gap Robust Distributional Indistinguishability:
There exists an
eﬃcient transformation T on distinguishers such that for every poly(κ)-
sampleable pair of distributions D0 = (X0, W0) and D1 = (X1, W1) over
instance-witness pairs in RL where Supp(X0) ∪Supp(X1) ⊆L, and every
distinguisher D with
 Pr[DO(P(1κ, D0)) = 1] −Pr[DO(P(1κ, D1)) = 1]
 = ν(κ)
the distinguisher D = T(D) satisﬁes:
 Pr[ DO(X0) = 1] −Pr[ DO(X1) = 1]
 ≥ϵ(κ) · ν(κ).
We construct robust NIDI arguments for any ﬁnite7 oracle O = {Oκ}κ∈N by
modifying the construction in [22] to ensure that all the underlying primitives
remain secure in the presence of oracle O. Our approach to achieve this is to rely
on complexity leveraging, although it may be possible to leverage other axes
of hardness in order to instantiate the underlying primitives with those that
remain secure in the presence of O. In the full version [8], we prove the following
theorem.
Theorem 3. Fix any ﬁnite oracle O = {Oκ}κ∈N. Assuming the existence of
sub-exponentially secure one-way functions and sub-exponentially secure indis-
tinguishability obfuscation, there exist robust NIDI arguments w.r.t. O, satisfying
ϵ-gap distributional indistinguishability, for every ϵ(κ) = 2−o(logc(κ)), for some
constant c > 1, satisfying Deﬁnition 11.
5
Constructing COA Secure Obfuscation
In this section, we prove the following theorem.
Theorem 4. For any (T(κ), ϵ(κ)), if there exist ϵ(κ)-secure CCA commitments
satisfying Deﬁnition 3 for which the decommitment oracle can be implemented
in time T(κ), and robust NIDIs satisfying ϵ(κ)-gap distributional indistinguisha-
bility w.r.t. the decommitment oracle for the CCA commitments (see Deﬁnition
11), then there exists a (T(κ), ϵ(κ)/4)-gap COA fortiﬁcation for any injective
obfuscation, satisfying Deﬁnition 10.
Here we describe our construction, and defer its proof of security to our full
version [8].
7 By ‘ﬁnite’, we mean that there exists a constant c > 1 s.t. for large enough κ the
oracle Oκ can be represented as a truth-table of size at most 2κc.

750
R. Canetti et al.
Construction 1. We require the following primitives:
– Let ccacom denote an ϵ(κ)-secure CCA commitment scheme according to Def-
inition 3 and let O denote the (deterministic, ineﬃcient) oracle that imple-
ments the cca.DeCom algorithm for ccacom. That is, on input a commitment
string ,, the oracle O outputs either a message m ∈{0, 1}∗or ⊥. Also, let
T = poly(|m|, 2κ) (where |m| denotes the size of message space for ccacom).
– Let r-NIDI denote a robust NIDI w.r.t. oracle O for language Lφ, deﬁned
below.
– Let O denote the underlying obfuscator for our COA fortiﬁcation. We will
assume that this obfuscator is secure against poly(T)-sized adversaries. This
can be achieved by appropriately scaling the security parameter for O, since
O is assumed to be subexponentially secure.
– Deﬁne language Lφ
= {{O, c} : ∃(C, r1, r2) : O = O(C; r1) ∧c =
ccacom(C; r2) ∧φ(C) = 1}
The algorithm cO.Obf(1κ, C, φ) does the following:
– Deﬁne distribution DC(r1||r2) = {O(C; r1), c = ccacom(C; r2)} for uniformly
sampled r1, r2.
– Output π ←r-NIDI.P(1κ, DC, Lφ) computed using uniform randomness rc.
The algorithm cO.Ver(1κ, C, φ) does the following:
– Sample randomness rR.
– Output y ←r-NIDI.V(1κ, π; rR).
In particular, for ϵ(κ) = 2−o(logc(κ)) and some constant c > 1, there exist
ϵ(κ)-secure CCA commitments satisfying Deﬁnition 3 for which the decommit-
ment oracle can be implemented in time T(κ) where T(κ) = 2κδ for some
constant δ > 0, and by Theorem 3 there exist robust NIDI arguments satis-
fying ϵ(κ) gap distributional indistinguishability w.r.t. the decommitment oracle
for the CCA commitments. Then, the theorem above implies that there exist
(2κδ, 2−o(logc(κ)))-gap COA fortiﬁcation for any injective obfuscation.
Corollary 1. Assuming the existence of sub-exponentially secure one-way func-
tions and sub-exponentially secure indistinguishability obfuscation, there exists
COA-secure obfuscation for all polynomial-sized circuits, satisfying Deﬁnition 8.
Proof. (Sketch) By [10], assuming the existence of sub-exponentially secure iO
and sub-exponentially secure puncturable PRFs, there exist subexponentially
secure pIO schemes for any polynomial sized circuit family. That is, there exists
a constant δ > 0 such that for T = 2κδ, and every poly(T)-sized distinguisher D,
AdvSamp
pIO,D = negl(T) where Samp is an admissible sampler according to Deﬁnition
4. This scheme can be made injective (while retaining T-security) by attaching
a perfectly binding commitment of the circuit to its original obfuscation.
Furthermore, for ϵ(κ) = 2−o(logc(κ)) and some constant c > 1, there exist
ϵ(κ)-secure CCA commitments satisfying Deﬁnition 3 for which the decommit-
ment oracle can be implemented in time T(κ), and by Theorem 3 there exist

COA-Secure Obfuscation and Applications
751
robust NIDI arguments satisfying ϵ(κ) gap distributional indistinguishability
w.r.t. the decommitment oracle for the CCA commitments. Then, the theorem
above implies that there exist (2κδ, 2−o(logc(κ)))-gap COA fortiﬁcation for any
injective obfuscation and in particular, for the injective pIO scheme described
above. This results in a COA-secure obfuscation scheme, whose correctness and
veriﬁability are immediate from those of the COA fortiﬁcation. Furthermore,
by deﬁnition of fortiﬁcation, this means there is a T-sized transformation T on
distinguishers such that for any admissible sampler Samp and distinguisher D,
AdvSamp
O,T (D) ≥ϵ(κ) · COAAdvSamp
cO,D
This implies that for any T -sized distinguisher D, COAAdvSamp
cO,D = negl(κ).
⊓⊔
6
Keyless Veriﬁable Watermarking
In this section, we describe an application of COA obfuscation to building water-
marking schemes. We present a generalized abstraction called keyless veriﬁable
watermarking. As a consequence we obtain watermarking for useful functionali-
ties like PRFs as a special case of this abstraction.
In the following, we deﬁne our notion of watermarking, which generalizes the
one in the recent work of Kitagawa et al. [23] to capture publicly markable and
extractable watermarking schemes without setup.
Deﬁnition 12 (Keyless Veriﬁable Watermarking).
Let C = {Cκ}κ∈N
be a circuit class s.t. Cκ consists of circuits with input length n(κ) and out-
put length m(κ). For a distribution family DC and a relation R over C, a
(DC, R)-unremovable keyless veriﬁable watermarking scheme with a message
space M = {Mκ}κ∈N consists of two PPT algorithms (Mark, Verify) as follows:
– Mark(1κ, C, m): Mark is a randomized algorithm that takes as input a circuit
C ∈Cκ, a message (or mark) m ∈Mκ and outputs a (marked) circuit C.
– Verify(1κ, C): Verify is a randomized algorithm that takes as input a (purport-
edly marked) circuit C and outputs a pair (C′, m′), where C′ is a circuit or
⊥, and m′ ∈Mκ ∪{⊥}.
They should satisfy the following properties:
– Correctness. There exists a negligible function μ s.t. for any circuit C ∈Cκ
and message m ∈Mκ it holds that
Pr
(C′,m′)←Verify(1κ,Mark(1κ,C,m)) [C′ ̸≡C ∨m′ ̸= m] ≤μ(κ).

752
R. Canetti et al.
– (DC, R)-Unremovability. There exists a negligible function ν s.t. for every
non-uniform PPT adversary A, for all suﬃciently large κ,
Pr[ExpA,DC,R(κ) = 1] ≤ν(κ)
where the experiment ExpA,DC,R(κ) is deﬁned as follows:
1. A(1κ) sends a message m ∈Mκ to the challenger. The challenger samples
a circuit C ←DCκ and responds with C ←Mark(1κ, C, m).
2. A outputs a circuit C∗. Let (C∗, m∗) ←Verify(1κ, C∗). Then, the experi-
ment outputs 1 iﬀC∗̸= ⊥, m∗̸= m, and
• either ∃C′ ∈Cκ s.t. C′ ≡C∗and Rκ(C′, C) = 1,
• or there is no circuit in Cκ that is functionally equivalent to C∗.
Our deﬁnition is incomparable with recent related deﬁnitions, speciﬁcally
those of Cohen et al. [12] Aaronson et al. [1], where the latter proposes a uniﬁed
deﬁnition to capture most prior works. Speciﬁcally, we require that a water-
marking scheme has a veriﬁcation algorithm that is executed before running the
watermarked programs. In our deﬁnition, the adversary is considered to have
removed the watermark only if it produces a circuit that veriﬁes, and for which
the corresponding circuit in the circuit family is related to the original circuit.
Our deﬁnition also strengthens the deﬁnitions from prior works (includ-
ing [23] and [1]) in some crucial ways:
– Our deﬁnition eliminates the need for any key generation algorithm/public
parameters.
– Our deﬁnition incorporates a guarantee that a circuit passing the veriﬁcation
indeed belongs to the circuit class.
In addition, our deﬁnition has a ﬂavor of traitor-tracing security that is similar
to the recent works of [18]. In particular, we say that an adversary wins the
watermarking game if it removes/modiﬁes the watermark and outputs a circuit
that is related to the original circuit – where related refers to satisfying one of a
large class of relations.
We shall construct a (DC, R)-unremovable keyless veriﬁable watermarking
scheme, when circuits drawn from DC are unlearnable from oracle access, but
the relation R is such that a circuit becomes learnable given a related circuit (as
made precise in Theorem 5). We ﬁrst describe our construction before stating
its security guarantee.
Construction 2. Let C = {Cκ}κ∈N be a circuit class s.t. Cκ consists of circuits
that take inputs of length n(κ) and produce outputs of length m(κ), and M =
{Mκ}κ∈N be a space of polynomially long messages. For any κ ∈N and any
m ∈Mκ, let C′
κ = {Cm | C ∈Cκ, m ∈Mκ}, where
Cm(x) =

m||C(0)
if x = 0
C(x)
otherwise.

COA-Secure Obfuscation and Applications
753
Let circuit class C′ = {C′
κ}κ∈N be the marked circuit class and φ′ be its
membership predicate, i.e. φ′(C) = 1 iﬀC ∈C′
κ (φ′ will internally use φC, the
membership predicate of C).
Let cO = (cO.Obf, cO.Ver) be COA obfuscation for C′, w.r.t. predicate φ′
(according to Deﬁnition 8). Instantiate the watermarking scheme for C w.r.t.
message space M = {Mκ}κ∈N and relation R as follows:
– Mark(1κ, C, m): Return cO.Obf(1κ, Cm, φ′), where Cm is deﬁned using C as
above.
– Verify(1κ, C): Let C′ ←cO.Ver(1κ, C, φ′). Parse C′(0) as m||y, where m ∈
Mκ and y ∈{0, 1}m(κ). (If C′ = ⊥, or the parsing above fails, return (⊥, ⊥).)
Construct a circuit C′′ such that
C′′(x) =

y
if x = 0
C′(x)
otherwise.
Return (C′′, m).
We provide the following theorem which captures the security of the above
construction. We provide a proof of this in our full version [8].
Theorem 5. Let C = {Cκ}κ∈N, DC = {DCκ}κ∈N and R = {Rκ}κ∈N be ensembles
of polynomial (in κ) sized circuits, distributions over those circuits and relations
over those circuits, as follows:
– Cκ = {Eκ(f, ·) | f ∈{0, 1}h(κ)}, where Eκ is a polynomial sized circuit imple-
menting a function Eκ : {0, 1}h(κ) × {0, 1}n(κ) →{0, 1}m(κ), with n(κ) ≤κc
for a constant c < 1.
– For any circuit family A = {Aκ}κ∈N where Aκ is of size poly(2n(κ)),
Pr
C←DCκ, C′←AC(·)
κ
[ C′ ≡C ] ≤negl(2n(κ)).
– There is a family of polynomial (in κ) sized circuits Rec = {Recκ}κ∈N such
that,
Pr
C←DCκ

∃C′ ∈Cκ, Rκ(C, C′) = 1 ∧RecC(·)
κ
(C′) ̸= C

≤negl(κ).
Then the watermarking scheme in Construction 2 is a (DC, R)-unremovable
keyless veriﬁable watermarking scheme, (according to Deﬁnition 12) for circuit
class C and message space M.
Next, we provide the following corollary which captures PRF watermarking as
special case of the above theorem.
Corollary 2. Let F = {Fk(·)}k∈Kκ,κ∈N be a PRF family with key-space K =
{Kκ}κ∈N, and seed, input, and output lengths as polynomials h(κ), n(κ) and m(κ)
respectively, such that n(κ) ≤κc for some c < 1. In addition, suppose the key
distribution ensemble DK and relation ensemble R are as follows:

754
R. Canetti et al.
– F is a sub-exponentially secure PRF under key distribution DK. That is, for
any adversary of size poly(2n(κ)), the following holds: (where F(n, m) = set
of all functions with input length n and output length m)

Pr
k←DK, b←AFk(·)(1κ)
[b = 1] −
Pr
H←F(n,m), b←AH(1κ)
[b = 1]
 ≤negl(2n(κ))
– There exists an algorithm Rec s.t.
Pr
k←DK

∃k′ ∈K, Rκ(k′, k) = 1 ∧RecFk(·)
κ
(k′) ̸= k

= negl(κ).
Then the watermarking scheme for F in construction 2 is a (DK, R)-unremovable
keyless veriﬁable watermarking scheme.
As a concrete instantiation of the above corollary, we consider the following
relation over PRF keys: Rκ(k, k′) = 1 iﬀFk(·) agrees with Fk′(·) on at least one
input. We will use a sub-exponentially secure PRF family F, which satisﬁes the
following key injectivity property:
Pr
k←DKκ
[∃k′ ∈K, Rκ(k, k′) = 1 ∧k′ ̸= k] = negl(κ).
where DKκ denotes the key distribution for which the PRF security holds.
Such PRFs can be constructed as in [12] under sub-exponential DDH and LWE
assumptions. For such a PRF, R(k, k′) = 1 iﬀk = k′ (for most k). Then, letting
Rec be the identity function satisﬁes the condition on the relation R in the above
corollary. Thus, instantiating Corollary 2 with Fk(·), DK, R as deﬁned above, we
get a (DK, R)-keyless veriﬁable watermarking scheme for F.
7
Completely CCA-secure Encryption
In this section, we introduce the notion of a completely CCA-secure public key
encryption scheme. Our notion of completely CCA secure PKE is a generalization
of the notion of completely non-malleable encryption put forward by [14]. The
original deﬁnition of Fischlin [14] follows a simulation-based formulation. Later
[30] gave a game-based formulation of completely non-malleable encryption and
showed it to be equivalent to the original simulation-based deﬁnition of complete
non-malleability. Our formulation of completely CCA-secure encryption also uses
a game-based formulation.
Deﬁnition 13 (C-CCA-security). An encryption scheme PKE = (KeyGen,
Enc, Dec) is completely CCA secure if there exists a (potentially randomized)
veriﬁcation algorithm KeyVerify such that the following hold.
– Soundness of veriﬁcation: For any string ˆpk and message x, the probability
that KeyVerify( ˆpk) rejects and Enc( ˆpk, x) ̸=⊥is negligible, i.e., there is a
negligible function μ(·) in the security parameter κ such that
Pr[(rv, re) ←{0, 1}κ, KeyVerify( ˆpk; rv) = 0 ∧Enc( ˆpk, x, re) ̸=⊥)] < μ(κ)

COA-Secure Obfuscation and Applications
755
– For every PPT adversary A, Advc-cca
PKE,A,b(·) is upper bounded by μ(κ), where
Advc-cca
PKE,A,b(·) = Pr[Expc-cca
PKE,A(κ) = 1] −1
2
and Expc-cca
PKE,A(κ) is deﬁned via the following experiment involving A and a
(potentially ineﬃcient) challenger C:
1. The challenger C samples r∗
$←−{0, 1}κ and runs (pk∗, sk∗) ←KeyGen(1κ, r∗).
It then returns pk∗to A. It also samples a random bit b
$←−{0, 1}, computes
the challenge ciphertext c∗←Enc(pk∗, b, r) for a random r, and returns c∗to
A.
2. At any point in the game, the adversary can make (multiple) decryption
queries to the challenger with respect to either the given public key or dif-
ferent (potentially mauled) public keys. In particular, A gets access to an
oracle D(·, ·). The oracle D takes as input either a ciphertext ci, or else a
pair ( ˜pki, ci). In the ﬁrst case, if ci = c∗then D returns ⊥. Else D returns
Dec(sk∗, ci). In the second case, D ﬁrst chooses a random string r. Next, if
ci = c∗and pki = pk∗, or else ci =⊥, or KeyVerify(pki, r) =⊥, then D returns
⊥. Otherwise, D brute-force ﬁnds the set of message-randomness pairs (m, r)
such that Enc(pki, m; r) = ci. Finally, it returns a random message from this
set, or ⊥if this set is empty.
3. When A outputs a guess b′, return 1 if b′ = b.
7.1
C-CCASecure PKE Scheme in the Plain Model
In this section we show how to construct a completely CCA2 secure PKE scheme
in the plain model (i.e., without any set up assumption). It is known from the
work of Fischlin [14] that, it is impossible to construct even completely non-
malleable encryption schemes for general relations w.r.t. black-box simulation
in the standard model. Later works [25,30] overcome this impossibility result
by relying on the common random or reference string model. In this work, we
show how to construct a completely CCA2 secure encryption scheme (which is
stronger than complete non-malleability) in the plain model from COA fortiﬁ-
cation of indistinguishability obfuscators (iO) and one-way functions. The use of
sub-exponential assumptions allow us to bypass the impossibility result of Fis-
chlin [14]. We now present the details of our construction. The main ingredients
required for our construction as follows:
Construction 3. Let ϵ > 0 be an arbitrary small constant s.t. ϵ < δ and:
– Let F1 : {0, 1}2κ →{0, 1} and F2 : {0, 1}2κ+1 →{0, 1}κ be two puncturable
pseudo-random functions that for security parameter 1k satisfy 2kϵ- security
against (non-uniform) adversaries.
– Let G : {0, 1}κ →{0, 1}2κ be a PRG that’s 2kϵ- secure against (non-uniform)
adversaries.

756
R. Canetti et al.
– Let φ(C) be the predicate asserting that C is a circuit of the form of Fig. 1
with F1, F2 and G as speciﬁed above.
– Let iO = (iO.Obf, iO.Eval) be sub-exponentially secure injective indistin-
guishability obfuscation scheme that for security parameter 1k satisﬁes 2kϵ-
security against (non-uniform) adversaries.
– Let cO = (cO.Obf, cO.Ver) be a COA fortiﬁcation of an underlying injective
indistinguishability obfuscator (iO) for circuits with respect to predicate φ.
We construct our completely CCA-2 secure encryption scheme PKE
=
(KeyGen, Enc, Dec) as follows:
1. KeyGen(1κ) : The key generation algorithm does the following:
– Sample puncturable PRF keys K1 for F1 and K2 for F2.
– Generate program PK1,K2 deﬁned in Fig. 1.
– Compute P ←cO.Obf(1κ, PK1,K2, φ).
– Output pk = P, sk = (K1, K2).
Hardwired: Puncturable PRF Keys K1, K2.
Input: Message m ∈{0, 1}, randomness r ∈{0, 1}κ.
(a) Let t = G(r)
(b) Set c1 = t, c2 = F1(K1, t) ⊕m, and c3 = F2(K2, c1|c2).
(c) Output c = (c1, c2, c3).
Fig. 1. Program PK1,K2.
2. Enc(pk, m ∈{0, 1}) : The encryption algorithm does the following:
– Sample randomness r ∈{0, 1}κ
– Run the randomized veriﬁcation algorithm P ←cO.Ver(1κ, P, φ).
– If P ̸= ⊥, run P(m; r) to obtain c = (c1, c2, c3).
3. Dec(pk, sk, c = (c1, c2, c3)) : The decryption algorithm does the following:
– Check if c3
?= F2(K2, c1|c2). If the check fails, output ⊥. Otherwise, it
continues.
– Output m′ = F1(K1, c1) ⊕c2
In [8] we also show that Complete CCA security of the above scheme holds
whehever the obfuscation scheme used is COA secure as in Deﬁnition 8. That is:
Theorem 6. Assume that the obfuscation scheme O in the above scheme is
COA secure with respect to predicate φ. Then the scheme is complete CCA secure
as in Deﬁnition 13.

COA-Secure Obfuscation and Applications
757
References
1. Aaronson, S., Liu, J., Liu, Q., Zhandry, M., Zhang, R.: New approaches for quan-
tum copy-protection. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) CRYPTO 2021. LNCS, vol.
12825, pp. 526–555. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
84242-0 19
2. Badrinarayanan, S., Goyal, V., Jain, A., Sahai, A.: Veriﬁable functional encryption.
In: Cheon, J.H., Takagi, T. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2016. LNCS, vol. 10032, pp. 557–
587. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53890-6 19
3. Barak, B.: How to go beyond the black-box simulation barrier. In: 42nd Annual
Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science, FOCS 2001, Las Vegas, Nevada,
USA, 14–17 October 2001, pp. 106–115 (2001)
4. Barak, B., et al.: On the (im)possibility of obfuscating programs. J. ACM
59(2):6:1–6:48 (2012)
5. Barak, B., Ong, S.J., Vadhan, S.P.: Derandomization in cryptography. SIAM J.
Comput. 37(2), 380–400 (2007)
6. Bitansky, N., Paneth, O.: ZAPs and non-interactive witness indistinguishability
from indistinguishability obfuscation. In: Dodis, Y., Nielsen, J.B. (eds.) TCC 2015.
LNCS, vol. 9015, pp. 401–427. Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-662-46497-7 16
7. Brakerski, Z., D¨ottling, N., Garg, S., Malavolta, G.: Candidate iO from homomor-
phic encryption schemes. In: Canteaut, A., Ishai, Y. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2020.
LNCS, vol. 12105, pp. 79–109. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-45721-1 4
8. Canetti, R., Chakraborty, S., Khurana, D., Kumar, N., Poburinnaya, O., Prab-
hakaran, M.: COA-Secure obfuscation and applications. IACR Cryptol. ePrint
Arch. (2022)
9. Canetti, R., Lin, H., Pass, R.: Adaptive hardness and composable security in the
plain model from standard assumptions. In: FOCS 2010, pp. 541–550 (2010)
10. Canetti, R., Lin, H., Tessaro, S., Vaikuntanathan, V.: Obfuscation of probabilistic
circuits and applications. In: Dodis, Y., Nielsen, J.B. (eds.) TCC 2015. LNCS,
vol. 9015, pp. 468–497. Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-662-46497-7 19
11. Canetti, R., Varia, M.: Non-malleable obfuscation. In: Reingold, O. (ed.) TCC
2009. LNCS, vol. 5444, pp. 73–90. Springer, Heidelberg (2009). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-642-00457-5 6
12. Cohen, A., Holmgren, J., Nishimaki, R., Vaikuntanathan, V., Wichs, D.: Water-
marking cryptographic capabilities. SIAM J. Comput. 47(6), 2157–2202 (2018)
13. Devadas, L., Quach, W., Vaikuntanathan, V., Wee, H., Wichs, D.: Succinct LWE
sampling, random polynomials, and obfuscation. In: Nissim, K., Waters, B. (eds.)
TCC 2021. LNCS, vol. 13043, pp. 256–287. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-030-90453-1 9
14. Fischlin, M.: Completely non-malleable schemes. In: Caires, L., Italiano, G.F.,
Monteiro, L., Palamidessi, C., Yung, M. (eds.) ICALP 2005. LNCS, vol. 3580, pp.
779–790. Springer, Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/11523468 63
15. Garg, R., Khurana, D., Lu, G., Waters, B.: Black-box non-interactive non-
malleable commitments. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/1197 (2020).
https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/1197
16. Garg, S., Gentry, G., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Witness encryption and its applica-
tions. In: Symposium on Theory of Computing Conference, STOC 2013, Palo Alto,
CA, USA, 1–4 June 2013, pp. 467–476 (2013)

758
R. Canetti et al.
17. Gay, R., Pass, R.: Indistinguishability obfuscation from circular security. In:
Khuller, S., Williams, V.V. (eds.) STOC 2021: 53rd Annual ACM SIGACT Sympo-
sium on Theory of Computing, Virtual Event, Italy, 21–25 June 2021, pp. 736–749.
ACM (2021)
18. Goyal, R., Kim, S., Waters, B., Wu, D.J.: Beyond software watermarking: traitor-
tracing for pseudorandom functions. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch. 2020:316 (2020)
19. Groth, J., Ostrovsky, R., Sahai, A.: New techniques for noninteractive zero-
knowledge. J. ACM 59(3):11:1–11:35 (2012)
20. Jain, A., Lin, H., Sahai, A.: Indistinguishability obfuscation from well-founded
assumptions. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/1003 (2020). https://eprint.
iacr.org/2020/1003
21. Kalai,
Y.T.,
Khurana,
D.:
Non-interactive
non-malleability
from
quantum
supremacy. In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio, D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019. LNCS, vol.
11694, pp. 552–582. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
26954-8 18
22. Khurana, D.: Non-interactive distributional indistinguishability (NIDI) and non-
malleable commitments. In: Canteaut, A., Standaert, F.-X. (eds.) EUROCRYPT
2021. LNCS, vol. 12698, pp. 186–215. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-77883-5 7
23. Kitagawa, F., Nishimaki, R., Yamakawa, T.: Secure software leasing from standard
assumptions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.11186 (2020)
24. Komargodski, I., Yogev, E.: Another step towards realizing random oracles: non-
malleable point obfuscation. In: Nielsen, J.B., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EUROCRYPT
2018. LNCS, vol. 10820, pp. 259–279. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-319-78381-9 10
25. Libert, B., Yung, M.: Eﬃcient completely non-malleable public key encryption. In:
Abramsky, S., Gavoille, C., Kirchner, C., Meyer auf der Heide, F., Spirakis, P.G.
(eds.) ICALP 2010. LNCS, vol. 6198, pp. 127–139. Springer, Heidelberg (2010).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-14165-2 12
26. Lin, H., Pass, R., Soni, P.: Two-round and non-interactive concurrent non-
malleable commitments from time-lock puzzles. In: Umans, C. (ed.) FOCS 2017,
Berkeley, CA, USA, 15–17 October 2017, pp. 576–587. IEEE Computer Society
(2017)
27. Naor, M., Yung, M.: Public-key cryptosystems provably secure against chosen
ciphertext attacks. In: STOC 1990, New York, NY, USA, pp. 427–437. Associ-
ation for Computing Machinery (1990)
28. Rackoﬀ, C., Simon, D.R.: Non-interactive zero-knowledge proof of knowledge and
chosen ciphertext attack. In: Feigenbaum, J. (ed.) CRYPTO 1991. LNCS, vol. 576,
pp. 433–444. Springer, Heidelberg (1992). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-46766-
1 35
29. Sahai, A., Waters, B.: How to use indistinguishability obfuscation: deniable encryp-
tion, and more. In: Shmoys, D.B. (ed.) STOC 2014, New York, NY, USA, 31
May–03 June 2014, pp. 475–484. ACM (2014)
30. Ventre, C., Visconti, I.: Completely non-malleable encryption revisited. In: Cramer,
R. (ed.) PKC 2008. LNCS, vol. 4939, pp. 65–84. Springer, Heidelberg (2008).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-78440-1 5

