Constant-Round Blind Classical
Veri´Čücation of Quantum Sampling
Kai-Min Chung1(B)
, Yi Lee2
, Han-Hsuan Lin3
, and Xiaodi Wu2,4
1 Institute of Information Science, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan
kmchung@iis.sinica.edu.tw
2 Department of Computer Science, University of Maryland, College Park, USA
ylee1228@umd.edu, xwu@cs.umd.edu
3 Department of Computer Science, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan
linhh@cs.nthu.edu.tw
4 Joint Center for Quantum Information and Computer Science,
University of Maryland, College Park, USA
Abstract. In a recent breakthrough, Mahadev constructed a classical
veri´Čücation of quantum computation (CVQC) protocol for a classical
client to delegate decision problems in BQP to an untrusted quantum
prover under computational assumptions. In this work, we explore fur-
ther the feasibility of CVQC with the more general sampling problems
in BQP and with the desirable blindness property. We contribute a´Čâr-
mative solutions to both as follows.
ÔÇô Motivated by the sampling nature of many quantum applica-
tions (e.g., quantum algorithms for machine learning and quantum
supremacy tasks), we initiate the study of CVQC for quantum sam-
pling problems (denoted by SampBQP). More precisely, in a CVQC
protocol for a SampBQP problem, the prover and the veri´Čüer are
given an input x Ôłł{0, 1}n and a quantum circuit C, and the goal
of the classical client is to learn a sample from the output z ÔćÉC(x)
up to a small error, from its interaction with an untrusted prover.
We demonstrate its feasibility by constructing a four-message CVQC
protocol for SampBQP based on the quantum Learning With Errors
assumption.
ÔÇô The blindness of CVQC protocols refers to a property of the pro-
tocol where the prover learns nothing, and hence is blind, about
the clientÔÇÖs input. It is a highly desirable property that has been
intensively studied for the delegation of quantum computation. We
provide a simple yet powerful generic compiler that transforms any
CVQC protocol to a blind one while preserving its completeness and
soundness errors as well as the number of rounds.
Applying our compiler to (a parallel repetition of) MahadevÔÇÖs CVQC
protocol for BQP and our CVQC protocol for SampBQP yields the ´Čürst
constant-round blind CVQC protocol for BQP and SampBQP respec-
tively, with negligible and inverse polynomial soundness errors respec-
tively, and negligible completeness errors.
Keywords: Classical delegation of quantum computation ┬Ě Blind
quantum computation ┬Ě Quantum sampling problems
c
ÔâŁInternational Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
O. Dunkelman and S. Dziembowski (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2022, LNCS 13277, pp. 707ÔÇô736, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-07082-2_25

708
K.-M. Chung et al.
1
Introduction
Can quantum computation, with potential computational advantages that are
intractable for classical computers, be e´Čâciently veri´Čüed by classical means? This
problem has been a major open problems in quantum complexity theory and del-
egation of quantum computation [1]. A complexity-theoretic formulation of this
problem by Gottesman in 2004 [1] asks about the possibility for an e´Čâcient
classical veri´Čüer (a BPP machine) to verify the output of an e´Čâcient quantum
prover (a BQP machine). In the absence of techniques for directly tackling this
question, earlier feasibility results on this problem have been focusing on two
weaker formulations. The ´Čürst type of feasibility results (e.g., [4,13,21,22]) con-
siders the case where the veri´Čüer is equipped with limited quantum power. The
second type of feasibility results (e.g., [18,23,25,35]) considers a BPP veri´Čüer
interacting with at least two entangled, non-communicating quantum provers.
Recently, the problem is resolved by a breakthrough result of Mahadev [30],
who constructed the ´Čürst Classical Veri´Čücation of Quantum Computation
(CVQC) protocol for BQP, where an e´Čâcient classical (BPP) veri´Čüer can interact
with an e´Čâcient quantum (BQP) prover to verify any BQP language. Soundness
of MahadevÔÇÖs protocol is based on a widely recognized computational assumption
that the learning with errors (LWE) problem [34] is hard for BQP machines. The
technique invented therein has inspired many subsequent developments of CVQC
protocols with improved parameters and functionality. For example, MahadevÔÇÖs
protocol has a large constant soundness error. The works of [7,15] use parallel
repetition to achieve a negligible soundness error. As another example, the work
of [24] extends MahadevÔÇÖs techniques in an involved way to obtain a CVQC
protocol with an additional blindness property.
In this work, we make two more contributions to this exciting line of research.
First, we observe that the literature has mostly restricted the attention to dele-
gation of decision problems (i.e., BQP). Motivated by the intrinsic randomness
of quantum computation and the sampling nature of many quantum applica-
tions, we initiate the study of CVQC for quantum sampling problems. Second,
we further investigate the desirable blindness property and construct the ´Čürst
constant-round blind CVQC protocols. We elaborate on our contributions in
Sect. 1.1 and 1.2, respectively.
1.1
CVQC for Quantum Sampling Problems
We initiate the study of CVQC for quantum sampling problem, which we believe
is highly desirable and natural for delegation of quantum computation. Due to
the intrinsic randomness of quantum mechanics, the output from a quantum
computation is randomized and described by a distribution. Thus, if a classical
veri´Čüer want to utilize the full power of a quantum machine, the ability to get
a veri´Čüable sample from the quantum circuitÔÇÖs output distribution is desirable.
On a more concrete level, quantum algorithms like ShorÔÇÖs algorithm [37] has a
signi´Čücant quantum sampling component, and the recent quantum supremacy

Constant-Round Blind Classical Veri´Čücation of Quantum Sampling
709
proposals (e.g., [3,8,36]) are built around sampling tasks, suggesting the impor-
tance of sampling in quantum computation.
It is worth noting that the di´Čâculty of extending the delegation of decision
problem to the delegation of sampling problems is quantum-speci´Čüc. This is
because there is a simple reduction from the delegation of classical sampling
problems to decision ones: the veri´Čüer can sample and ´Čüx the random seed of
the computation, which makes the computation deterministic. Then, the veri´Čüer
can delegate the output of the computation bit-by-bit as decision problems.
However, this derandomization trick does not work in the quantum setting due
to its intrinsic randomness.
Our Contribution. As the ´Čürst step to formalize CVQC for quantum sampling
problems, we consider the complexity class SampBQP introduced by Aaron-
son [2] as a natural class to capture e´Čâciently computable quantum sampling
problems. SampBQP consists of sampling problems (Dx)xÔłł{0,1}ÔłŚthat can be
approximately sampled by a BQP machine with a desired inverse polynomial
error (See Sect. 2 for the formal de´Čünition). We consider CVQC for a SampBQP
problem (Dx)xÔłł{0,1}ÔłŚwhere a classical BPP veri´Čüer delegates the computation
of a sample z ÔćÉDx for some input x to a quantum BQP prover. Completeness
requires that when the prover is honest, the veri´Čüer should accept with high
probability and learn a correct sample z ÔćÉDx. For soundness, intuitively, the
veri´Čüer should not accept and output a sample with incorrect distribution when
interacting with a malicious prover. We formalize the soundness by a strong
simulation-based de´Čünition, (De´Čünition 3), where we require that the joint dis-
tribution (d, z) of the decision bit d Ôłł{Acc, Rej} and the output z (which is ÔŐą
when d = Rej) is ¤Á-close (in either statistical or computational sense) to an ÔÇťideal
distributionÔÇŁ (d, zideal), where zideal is sampled from the desired distribution Dx
when d = Acc and set to ÔŐąwhen d = Rej.1
As our main result, we construct a constant-round CVQC protocol for
SampBQP, based on the quantum LWE (QLWE) assumption that the learning-
with-errors problem is hard for BQP machines.
Theorem 1 (informal). Assuming the QLWE assumption, there exists a four-
message CVQC protocol for all sampling problems in SampBQP with computa-
tional soundness and negligible completeness error.
We note that since the de´Čünition of SampBQP allows an inverse polyno-
mial error, our CVQC protocol also implicitly allows an arbitrary small inverse
polynomial error in soundness (see Sect. 2 for the formal de´Čünition). Achieving
negligible soundness error for delegating sampling problems is an intriguing open
question; see Sect. 1.3 for further discussions.
The construction of our CVQC protocol follows the blueprint of MahadevÔÇÖs
construction [30]. However, there are several obstacles we need to overcome along
the way. To explains the obstacles and our ideas, we ´Čürst present a high-level
overview of MahadevÔÇÖs protocol.
1 This simulation-based formulation is analogous to the standard composable security
de´Čünition for QKD.

710
K.-M. Chung et al.
Overview of MahadevÔÇÖs Protocol. Following [30], we de´Čüne QPIP¤ä as classes of
interactive proof systems between an (almost) classical veri´Čüer and a quantum
prover, where the classical veri´Čüer has limited quantum computational capability,
formalized as possessing ¤ä-qubit quantum memory. A formal de´Čünition is given
in our full version [17].
At a high-level, the heart of MahadevÔÇÖs protocol is a measurement protocol
╬áMeasure that can compile an one-round QPIP1 protocol (with special properties)
to a QPIP0 protocol. Note that in a QPIP1 protocol, the veri´Čüer with one-qubit
memory can only measure the proverÔÇÖs quantum message qubit by qubit. Infor-
mally, the measurement protocol ╬áMeasure allows a BQP prover to ÔÇťcommit toÔÇŁ
a quantum state ¤ü and a classical veri´Čüer to choose an X or Z measurement to
apply to each qubit of ¤ü such that the veri´Čüer can learn the resulting measure-
ment outcome.
Thus, if an (one-round) QPIP1 veri´Čüer only applies X or Z measurement to
the proverÔÇÖs quantum message, we can use the measurement protocol ╬áMeasure
to turn the QPIP1 protocol into a QPIP0 protocol in a natural way. One addi-
tional requirement here is that the veri´ČüerÔÇÖs measurement choices need to be
determined at the beginning (i.e., cannot depend adaptively on the intermediate
measurement outcome).
Furthermore, in ╬áMeasure, the veri´Čüer chooses to run a ÔÇťtestingÔÇŁ round or
a ÔÇťHadamardÔÇŁ round with 1/2 probability, respectively. Informally, the testing
round is used to ÔÇťtestÔÇŁ the commitment of ¤ü, and the Hadamard round is used
to learn the measurement outcome. (See Protocol 1 for further details about the
measurement protocol ╬áMeasure.) Another limitation here is that in the testing
round, the veri´Čüer only ÔÇťtestÔÇŁ the commitment without learning any measure-
ment result.
In [30], MahadevÔÇÖs CVQC protocol for BQP is constructed by applying her
measurement protocol to the one-round QPIP1 protocol of [21,32], which has
the desired properties that the veri´Čüer only performs non-adaptive X/Z mea-
surement to the proverÔÇÖs quantum message. The fact that the veri´Čüer does not
learn the measurement outcome in the testing round is not an issue here since
the veri´Čüer can simply accept when the test is passed (at the cost of a constant
soundness error).
Overview of Our Construction. Following the blueprint of MahadevÔÇÖs construc-
tion, our construction proceeds in the following two steps: 1. construct a QPIP1
protocol for SampBQP with required special property, and 2. compile the QPIP1
protocol using ╬áMeasure to get the desired QPIP0 protocol. The ´Čürst step can
be done by combining existing techniques from di´ČÇerent contexts, whereas the
second step is the main technical challenge. At a high-level, the reason is the
above-mentioned issue that the veri´Čüer does not learn the measurement outcome
in the testing round. While this is not a problem for decision problems, for sam-
pling problems, the veri´Čüer needs to produce an output sample when accepts,
but there seems to be no way to produce the output for the veri´Čüer without
learning the measurement outcome. We discuss both steps in turn as follows.

Constant-Round Blind Classical Veri´Čücation of Quantum Sampling
711
ÔőäConstruct a QPIP1 protocol for SampBQP with required special property:
Interestingly, while the notion of delegation for quantum sampling problem is
not explicitly formalized in their work, Hayashi and Morimae [26] constructed
an one-round QPIP1 protocol that can delegate quantum sampling problem and
achieve our notion of completeness and soundness2. Furthermore, their protocol
has information-theoretic security and additionally achieve the blindness prop-
erty. However, in their protocol, the computation is performed by the veri´Čüer
using measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC)3, and hence the ver-
i´Čüer needs to perform adaptive measurement choices. Therefore, we cannot rely
on their QPIP1 protocol for SampBQP.
Instead, we construct the desired QPIP1 protocol for SampBQP by gener-
alizing the approach of local Hamiltonian reduction used in [21,32] to verify
SampBQP. Doing so requires the combination of several existing techniques from
di´ČÇerent context with some new ideas. For example, to handle SampBQP, we
need to prove lower bound on the spectral gap of the reduced local Hamiltonian
instance, which is reminiscent to the simulation of quantum circuits by adia-
batic quantum computation [5]. To achieve soundness, we use cut-and-choose
and analyze it using de Finetti theorem in a way similar to [26,38]. See Sect. 3
and our full version [17] for detailed discussions.
ÔőäCompile the QPIP1 protocol using ╬áMeasure: We now discuss how to use
MahadevÔÇÖs measurement protocol to compile the above QPIP1 protocol for
SampBQP to a QPIP0 protocol. As mentioned, a major issue we need to address
in MahadevÔÇÖs original construction is that when the veri´Čüer V chooses to run a
testing round, V does not learn an output sample when it accepts.
Speci´Čücally, let ╬áint be an ÔÇťintermediateÔÇŁ QPIP0 protocol obtained by apply-
ing MahadevÔÇÖs compilation to the above QPIP1 protocol. In such a protocol, when
the veri´Čüer V chooses to run the Hadamard round, it could learn a measurement
outcome from the measurement protocol and be able to run the QPIP1 veri´Čüer
to generate a decision and an output sample when accepts. However, when V
chooses to run the testing round, it only decides to accept/reject without being
able to output a sample.
A natural idea to ´Čüx the issue is to execute multiple copies of ╬áint in paral-
lel4, and to choose a random copy to run the Hadamard round to generate an
output sample and use all the remaining copies to run the testing round. The
veri´Čüer accepts only when all executions accept and outputs the sample from
the Hadamard round. We call this protocol ╬áFinal.
Clearly from the construction, the veri´Čüer now can output a sample when it
decides to accept, and output a correct sample when interacting with an honest
2 They did not prove our notion of soundness for their construction, but it is not hard
to prove its soundness based on their analysis.
3 In more detail, the prover of their protocol is required to send multiple copies of the
graph states to the veri´Čüer (qubit by qubit). The veri´Čüer tests the received supposedly
graph states using cut-and-choose and perform the computation using MBQC.
4 It is also reasonable to consider sequential repetition, but we consider parallel repe-
tition for its advantage of preserving the round complexity.

712
K.-M. Chung et al.
prover (completeness). The challenge is to show that ╬áFinal is computationally
sound. Since we are now in the computational setting, we cannot use the quan-
tum de Finetti theorem as above which only holds in the information-theoretical
setting. Furthermore, parallel repetition for computationally sound protocols are
typically di´Čâcult to analyze, and known to not always work for protocols with
four or more messages even in the classical setting [10,33].
Parallel repetition of MahadevÔÇÖs protocol for BQP has been analyzed before
in [7,15]. However, the situation here is di´ČÇerent. For BQP, the veri´Čüer simply
chooses to run the Hadamard and testing rounds independently for each repeti-
tion. In contrast, our ╬áFinal runs the Hadamard round in one repetition and runs
the testing rounds in the rest. The reason is that in SampBQP, as well as gener-
ically in sampling problems, there is no known approach to combine multiple
samples to generate one sample with reduced error, i.e., there is no generic error
reduction method for the sampling problem. In contrast, the error reduction for
decision problems can be done with the majority vote. As a result, while the
soundness error decreases exponentially for BQP, as we see below (and also in
the above QPIP1 protocols), for SampBQP, m-fold repetition only decreases the
error to poly(1/m).
To analyze the soundness of ╬áFinal, we use the partition lemma developed
in [15] to analyze the proverÔÇÖs behavior while executing copies of ╬áMeasure.5 Intu-
itively, the partition lemma says that for any cheating prover and for each copy
i Ôłł[m], there exist two e´Čâcient ÔÇťprojectorsÔÇŁ6 G0,i and G1,i in the proverÔÇÖs
internal space with G0,i + G1,i ÔëłId. G0,i and G1,i splits up the proverÔÇÖs resid-
ual internal state after sending back his ´Čürst message. G0,i intuitively repre-
sents the subspace where the prover does not knows the answer to the testing
round on the i-th copy, while G1,i represents the subspace where the prover
does. Note that the prover is using a single internal space for all copies, and
every G0,i and every G1,i is acting on this single internal space. By using this
partition lemma iteratively, we can decompose the proverÔÇÖs internal state |¤łÔčę
into sum of subnormalized states. First we apply it to the ´Čürst copy, writing
|¤łÔčę= G0,1|¤łÔčę+ G1,1|¤łÔčęÔëí|¤ł0Ôčę+ |¤ł1Ôčę. The component |¤ł0Ôčęwould then get
rejected as long as the ´Čürst copy is chosen as a testing round, which occurs with
pretty high probability. More precisely, the output corresponding to |¤ł0Ôčęis 1/m-
close to the ideal distribution that just rejects all the time. On the other hand,
|¤ł1Ôčęis now binding on the ´Čürst copy; we now similarly apply the partition lemma
of the second copy to |¤ł1Ôčę. We write |¤ł1Ôčę= G0,2|¤ł1Ôčę+ G1,2|¤ł1ÔčęÔëí|¤ł10Ôčę+ |¤ł11Ôčę,
and apply the same argument about |¤ł10Ôčęand |¤ł11Ôčę. We then continue to decom-
pose |¤ł11Ôčę= |¤ł110Ôčę+ |¤ł111Ôčęand so on, until we reach the last copy and obtain
|¤ł1mÔčę. Intuitively, all the |¤ł1...10Ôčęterms will be rejected with high probabil-
ity, while the |¤ł1mÔčęterm represents the ÔÇťgoodÔÇŁ component where the prover
knows the answer to every testing round and therefore has high accept probabil-
5 The analysis of [7] is more tailored to the decision problems setting, and it is unclear
how to extend it to sampling problems where there are multiple bits of output.
6 Actually they are not projectors, but for the simplicity of this discussion letÔÇÖs assume
they are.

Constant-Round Blind Classical Veri´Čücation of Quantum Sampling
713
ity. Therefore, |¤ł1mÔčęalso satis´Čües some binding property, so the veri´Čüer should
obtain a measurement result of some state on the Hadamard round copy, and
the soundness of the QPIP1 protocol ╬áSamp follows.
However, the intuition that |¤ł1mÔčęis binding to every Hadamard round is
incorrect. As G1,i does not commute with G1,j, |¤ł1mÔčęis unfortunately only
binding for the m-th copy. To solve this problem, we start with a pointwise
argument and ´Čüx the Hadamard round on the i-th copy where |¤ł1iÔčęis binding,
and show that the corresponding output is O(Ôłą|¤ł1iÔłĺ10ÔčęÔłą)-close to ideal. We can
later average out this error over the di´ČÇerent choices of i, since not all Ôłą|¤ł1iÔłĺ10ÔčęÔłą
can be large at the same time. Another way to see this issue is to notice that
we are partitioning a quantum state, not probability events, so there are some
inconsistencies between our intuition and calculation. Indeed, the error we get
in the end is O(

1/m) instead of the O(1/m) we expected.
The intuitive analysis outlined above glosses over many technical details, and
we substantiate this outline with full details in Sect. 4.
1.2
Blind CVQC Protocols
Another desirable property of CVQC protocols is blindness, which means that
the prover does not learn any information about the private input for the dele-
gated computation.7 In the relaxed setting where the veri´Čüer has a limited quan-
tum capability, Hayashi and Morimae [26] constructed a blind QPIP1 protocol
for delegating quantum computation with information-theoretic security that
also handles sampling problems. However, for purely classical veri´Čüers, blind
CVQC protocols seem much more di´Čâcult to construct. This goal is recently
achieved by the seminal work of Gheorghiu and Vidick [24], who constructed
the ´Čürst blind CVQC protocol for BQP by constructing a composable remote
state preparation protocol and combining it with the veri´Čüable blind quantum
computation protocol of Fitzsimons and Kashe´Čü[22]. However, their protocol
has polynomially many rounds and requires a rather involved analysis. Before
our work, it is an open question whether constant-round blind CVQC protocol
for BQP is achievable.
Our Contribution. Somewhat surprisingly, we provide a simple yet powerful
generic compiler that transforms any CVQC protocol to a blind one while pre-
serving completeness, soundness, as well as its round complexity. Our compiler
relies on quantum fully homomorphic encryption (QFHE) schemes with cer-
tain ÔÇťclassical-friendlyÔÇŁ properties, which is satis´Čüed by both constructions of
Mahadev [29] and Brakerski [12].
Theorem 2 (informal). Assuming the QLWE assumption8, there exists a pro-
tocol compiler that transforms any CVQC protocol ╬á to a CVQC protocol ╬áblind
7 In literature, the de´Čünition of blindness may also require to additionally hide the
computation. We note the two notions are equivalent from a feasibility point of view
by a standard transformation (see our full version [17]).
8 By using BrakerskiÔÇÖs QFHE, we only need to rely on the QLWE assumption with
polynomial modulus in this theorem.

714
K.-M. Chung et al.
that achieves blindness while preserves its round complexity, completeness, and
soundness.
Applying our blindness compiler to the parallel repetition of MahadevÔÇÖs pro-
tocol from [7,15], we obtain the ´Čürst constant-round blind CVQC protocol for
BQP with negligible completeness and soundness error, resolving the aforemen-
tioned open question.
Theorem 3 (informal). Under the QLWE assumption, there exists a blind,
four-message CVQC protocol for all languages in BQP with negligible complete-
ness and soundness errors.
We can also apply our compiler to our CVQC protocol for SampBQP to
additionally achieve blindness.
Theorem 4 (informal). Under the QLWE assumption, there exists a blind,
four-message CVQC protocol for all sampling problems in SampBQP with com-
putational soundness and negligible completeness error.
Techniques. At a high-level, the idea is simple: we run the original protocol
under a QFHE with the QFHE key generated by the veri´Čüer. Intuitively, this
allows the prover to compute his next message under encryption without learning
veri´ČüerÔÇÖs message, and hence achieves blindness while preserving the properties
of the original protocol. One subtlety with this approach is the fact that the
veri´Čüer is classical while the QFHE cipher text could contain quantum data. In
order to make the classical veri´Čüer work in this construction, the ciphertext and
the encryption/decryption algorithm need to be classical when the underlying
message is classical. Fortunately, such ÔÇťclassical-friendlyÔÇŁ property is satis´Čüed
by the construction of [12,29].
A more subtle issue is to preserve the soundness. In particular, compiled
protocols with a single application of QFHE might (1) leak information about
the circuit evaluated by the veri´Čüer through its outputted QFHE ciphertexts
(i.e., no circuit privacy); or (2) fail to simulate original protocols upon receiving
invalid ciphertexts from the prover. We address these issues by letting the veri´Čüer
switch to a fresh new key for each round of the protocol. Details are given in
Sect. 5.
1.3
Related and Followup Works and Discussions
As mentioned, while we are the ´Čürst to explicitly investigate delegation of quan-
tum sampling problems, Hayashi and Morimae [26] constructed an one-round
blind QPIP1 protocol that can be used to delegate SampBQP and achieve our
notion of information-theoretical security. Like our SampBQP protocol, their
protocol has an arbitrarily small inverse polynomial soundness error instead of
negligible soundness error. Also as mentioned, Gheorghiu and Vidick [24] con-
structed the ´Čürst blind CVQC protocol for BQP by constructing a composable
remote state preparation protocol and combining it with the veri´Čüable blind

Constant-Round Blind Classical Veri´Čücation of Quantum Sampling
715
quantum computation protocol of Fitzsimons and Kashe´Čü[22]. However, their
protocol has polynomially many rounds and requires a rather involved analysis.
It is also worth noting that several existing constructions in the relaxed
models (e.g., veri´Čüable blind computation [22]) can be generalized to delegate
SampBQP in a natural way, but it seems challenging to analyze the soundness
of the generalized protocol. Furthermore, it is unlikely that these generalized
protocols can achieve negligible soundness error for SampBQP. The reason is
that in all these constructions, some form of cut and choose are used to achieve
soundness. For sampling problems, as mentioned, there seems to be no generic
way to combine multiple samples for error reduction, so the veri´Čüer needs to
choose one sample to output in the cut and choose. In this case, an adversarial
prover may choose to cheat on a random copy in the cut and choose and succeed
in cheating with an inverse polynomial probability.
On the other hand, while the de´Čünition of SampBQP in [2,3] allows an inverse
polynomial error, there seems to be no fundamental barriers to achieve negligi-
ble error. It is conceivable that negligible error can be achieved using quantum
error correction. Negligible security error is also achievable in the related settings of
secure multi-party quantum computation [19,20] and veri´Čüable quantum FHE [6]
based on veri´Čüable quantum secret sharing or quantum authentication codes9.
However, both primitives require computing and communicating quantum encod-
ings and are not applicable in the context of CVQC and QPIP1. An intriguing open
problem is whether it is possible to achieve negligible soundness error with classical
communication while delegating a quantum sampling problem.
In a recent work, Bartusek [9] used the technique we developed for delegation
of SampBQP to construct secure quantum computation protocols with classical
communication for pseudo-deterministic quantum functionalities.
Organization. For preliminary technical background, see our full version [17].
Our simulation-based de´Čünition of CVQC for SampBQP is discussed in Sect. 2.
Our main technical contributions are explained in Sect. 3 (a construction of
QPIP1 protocol for SampBQP), Sect. 4 (the construction of QPIP0 protocol for
SampBQP based on the above QPIP1 protocol), and Sect. 5 (a generic compiler
to upgrade QPIP0 protocols with blindness).
2
Delegation of Quantum Sampling Problems
In this section, we formally introduce the task of delegation for quantum sam-
pling problems. We start by recalling the complexity class SampBQP de´Čüned by
Aaronson [2,3], which captures the class of sampling problems that are approx-
imately solvable by polynomial-time quantum algorithms.
De´Čünition 1 (Sampling Problem).
A sampling problem is a collection of
probability distributions (Dx)xÔłł{0,1}ÔłŚ, one for each input string x Ôłł{0, 1}n,
where Dx is a distribution over {0, 1}m(n) for some ´Čüxed polynomial m.
9 The security de´Čünitions are not comparable, but it seems plausible that the techniques
can be used to achieve negligible soundness error for sampling problems.

716
K.-M. Chung et al.
De´Čünition 2 (SampBQP).
SampBQP
is
the
class
of
sampling
problems
(Dx)xÔłł{0,1}ÔłŚthat can be (approximately) sampled by polynomial-size uniform
quantum circuits. Namely, there exists a Turing machine M such that for every
n ÔłłN and ¤Á Ôłł(0, 1), M(1n, 11/¤Á) outputs a quantum circuit C in poly(n, 1/¤Á)
time such that for every x Ôłł{0, 1}n, the output of C(x) (measured in standard
basis) is ¤Á-close to Dx in the total variation distance.
Note that in the above de´Čünition, there is an accuracy parameter ¤Á and the
quantum sampling algorithm only requires to output a sample that is ¤Á-close to
the correct distribution in time poly(n, 1/¤Á). [2,3] discussed multiple reasons for
allowing the inverse polynomial error, such as to take into account the inherent
noise in conceivable physical realizations of quantum computer. On the other
hand, it is also meaningful to require negligible error. As discussed, it is an
intriguing open question to delegate quantum sampling problem with negligible
error.
We next de´Čüne what it means for a QPIP¤ä protocol10 to solve a SampBQP
problem (Dx)xÔłł{0,1}ÔłŚ. Since sampling problems come with an accuracy param-
eter ¤Á, we let the prover P and the veri´Čüer V receive the input x and 11/¤Á as
common inputs. Completeness is straightforward to de´Čüne, which requires that
when the prover P is honest, the veri´Čüer V should accept with high probability
and output a sample z distributed close to Dx on input x. De´Čüning sound-
ness is more subtle. Intuitively, it requires that the veri´Čüer V should never be
ÔÇťcheatedÔÇŁ to accept and output an incorrect sample even when interacting with
a malicious prover. We formalize this by a strong simulation-based de´Čünition,
where we require that the joint distribution of the decision bit d Ôłł{Acc, Rej}
and the output z (which is ÔŐąwhen d = Rej) is ¤Á-close (in either statistical or
computational sense) to an ÔÇťideal distributionÔÇŁ (d, zideal), where zideal is sam-
pled from Dx when d = Acc and set to ÔŐąwhen d = Rej. Since the protocol
receives the accuracy parameter 11/¤Á as input to specify the allowed error, we do
not need to introduce an additional soundness error parameter in the de´Čünition.
De´Čünition 3. Let ╬á = (P, V ) be a QPIP¤ä protocol. We say it is a protocol for
the SampBQP instance (Dx)xÔłł{0,1}ÔłŚwith completeness error c(┬Ě) and statistical
(resp., computational) soundness if the following holds:
ÔÇô On public inputs 1╬╗, 11/¤Á, and x Ôłł{0, 1}poly(╬╗), V outputs (d, z) where d Ôłł
{Acc, Rej}. If d = Acc then z Ôłł{0, 1}m(|x|) where m is given in De´Čünition 1,
otherwise z = ÔŐą.
ÔÇô (Completeness): For all accuracy parameters ¤Á(╬╗) =
1
poly(╬╗), security parame-
ters ╬╗ ÔłłN, and x Ôłł{0, 1}poly(╬╗), let (d, z) ÔćÉ(P, V )(1╬╗, 11/¤Á, x), then d = Rej
with probability at most c(╬╗).
ÔÇô (Statistical soundness): For all cheating provers P ÔłŚ, accuracy parameters
¤Á(╬╗) =
1
poly(╬╗), su´Čâciently large ╬╗ ÔłłN, and x Ôłł{0, 1}poly(╬╗), consider the
following experiment:
10 See our full version [17] for a formal de´Čünition of QPIP¤ä.

Constant-Round Blind Classical Veri´Čücation of Quantum Sampling
717
ÔÇó Let (d, z) ÔćÉ(P ÔłŚ, V )(1╬╗, 11/¤Á, x).
ÔÇó De´Čüne zideal by

zideal = ÔŐą
if d = Rej
zideal ÔćÉDx
if d = Acc
.
It holds that Ôłą(d, z) Ôłĺ(d, zideal)ÔłąTV ÔëĄ¤Á.
ÔÇô (Computational soundness): For all cheating BQP provers P ÔłŚ, BQP distin-
guishers D, accuracy parameters ¤Á(╬╗) =
1
poly(╬╗), su´Čâciently large ╬╗ ÔłłN, and
all x Ôłł{0, 1}poly(╬╗), let us de´Čüne d, z, zideal by the same experiment as above.
It holds that (d, z) is ¤Á-computationally indistinguishable to (d, zideal) over ╬╗.
As in the case of BQP, we are particularly interested in the case that ¤ä = 0,
i.e., when the veri´Čüer V is classical. In this case, we say that ╬á is a CVQC
protocol for the SampBQP problem (Dx)xÔłł{0,1}ÔłŚ.
3
Construction of the QPIP1 Protocol for SampBQP
As we mentioned in this introduction, we will employ the circuit history state
in the original construction of the Local Hamiltonian problem [28] to encode
the circuit information for SampBQP. However, there are distinct requirements
between certifying the computation for BQP and SampBQP based on the his-
tory state. For any quantum circuit C on input x, the original construction for
certifying BQP11 consists of local Hamiltonian Hin, Hclock, Hprop, Hout where
Hin is used to certify the initial input x, Hclock to certify the validness of the
clock register, Hprop to certify the gate-by-gate evolution according to the circuit
description, and Hout to certify the ´Čünal output. In particular, the corresponding
history state is in the ground space of Hin, Hclock, and Hprop. Note that BQP is
a decision problem and its outcome (0/1) can be easily encoded into the energy
Hout on the single output qubit. As a result, the outcome of BQP can simply be
encoded by the ground energy of Hin + Hclock + Hprop + Hout.
To deal with SampBQP, we will still employ Hin, Hclock, and Hprop to cer-
tify the circuitÔÇÖs input, the clock register, and gate-by-gate evolution. However,
in SampBQP, we care about the entire ´Čünal state of the circuit, rather than
the energy on the output qubit. Our approach to certify the entire ´Čünal state
(which is encoded inside the history state) is to make sure that the history
state is the unique ground state of Hin + Hclock + Hprop and all other orthog-
onal states will have much higher energies. Namely, we need to construct some
HÔÇ▓
in + HÔÇ▓
clock + HÔÇ▓
prop with the history state as the unique ground state and with
a large spectral gap between the ground energy and excited energies. It is hence
guaranteed that any state with close-to-ground energy must also be close to the
history state. We remark that this is a di´ČÇerent requirement from most local
Hamiltonian constructions that focus on the ground energy. We achieve so by
11 The original construction is for the purpose of certifying problems in QMA. We
consider its simple restriction to problems inside BQP.

718
K.-M. Chung et al.
using the perturbation technique developed in [27] for reducing the locality of
Hamiltonian. Another example of local Hamiltonian construction with a focus on
the spectral gap can be found in [5], where the purpose is to simulate quantum
circuits by adiabatic quantum computation.
We need two more twists for our purpose. First, as we will eventually mea-
sure the ´Čünal state in order to obtain classical samples, we need that the ´Čünal
state occupies a large fraction of the history state. We can simply add dummy
identity gates. Second, as we are only able to perform X or Z measurement by
techniques from [30], we need to construct X-Z only local Hamiltonians. Indeed,
this has been shown possible in, e.g., [11], which serves as the starting point of
our construction.
We present the formal construction of our QPIP1 protocol ╬áSamp for
SampBQP in our full version [17]. The soundness and completeness of ╬áSamp
is stated in the following theorem, whose proof is also deferred to [17].
Theorem 5. ╬áSamp is a QPIP1 protocol for the SampBQP problem (Dx)xÔłł{0,1}ÔłŚ
with negligible completeness error and is statistically sound12 where the veri´Čüer
only needs to do non-adaptive X/Z measurements.
4
SampBQP Delegation Protocol for Fully Classical Client
In this section, we create a delegation protocol for SampBQP with fully classical
clients by adapting the approach taken in [30]. In [30], Mahadev designed a protocol
╬áMeasure (Protocol 1) that allows a BQP prover to ÔÇťcommit a stateÔÇŁ for a classical
veri´Čüer to choose a X or Z measurement and obtain corresponding measurement
results. Composing it with the QPIP1 protocol for BQP from [21] results in a QPIP0
protocol for BQP. In this work, we will compose ╬áMeasure with our QPIP1 protocol
╬áSamp for SampBQP in order to obtain a QPIP0 protocol for SampBQP.
A direct composition of ╬áSamp and ╬áMeasure, however, results in ╬áint (Protocol
2) which does not provide reasonable completeness or accuracy guarantees. As
we will see, this is due to ╬áMeasure itself having peculiar and weak guarantees:
the client doesnÔÇÖt always obtain measurement outcomes even if the server were
honest. When that happens under the BQP context, the veri´Čüer can simply
accept the prover at the cost of some soundness error; under our SampBQP
context, however, we must run many copies of ╬áint in parallel so the veri´Čüer can
generate its outputs from some copy. We will spend the majority of this section
analyzing the soundness of this parallel repetition.
4.1
MahadevÔÇÖs Measurement Protocol
╬áMeasure is a 4-round protocol between a veri´Čüer (which corresponds to our client)
and a prover (which corresponds to our server). The veri´Čüer (secretly) chooses
a string h specifying the measurements he wants to make, and generates keys
pk, sk from h. It sends pk to the prover. The prover ÔÇťcommitsÔÇŁ to a state ¤ü of
12 The soundness and completeness of a SampBQP protocol is de´Čüned in De´Čünition 3.

Constant-Round Blind Classical Veri´Čücation of Quantum Sampling
719
its choice using pk and replies with its commitment y. The veri´Čüer must then
choose between two options: do a testing round or a Hadamard round. In a
testing round the veri´Čüer can catch cheating provers, and in a Hadamard round
the veri´Čüer receives some measurement outcome. He sends his choice to the
prover, and the prover replies accordingly. If the veri´Čüer chose testing round, he
checks the proverÔÇÖs reply against the previous commitment, and rejects if he sees
an inconsistency. If the veri´Čüer chose Hadamard round, he calculates MXZ(¤ü, h)
based on the reply. We now formally describe the interface of ╬áMeasure while
omitting the implementation details.
Protocol 1 MahadevÔÇÖs measurement protocol ╬áMeasure = (PMeasure, VMeasure)
Inputs:
ÔÇô Common input: Security parameter 1╬╗ where ╬╗ ÔłłN.
ÔÇô ProverÔÇÖs input: a state ¤ü ÔłłBÔŐŚn for the veri´Čüer to measure.
ÔÇô Veri´ČüerÔÇÖs input: the measurement basis choice h Ôłł{0, 1}n
Protocol:
1. The veri´Čüer generates a public and secret key pair (pk, sk) ÔćÉVMeasure,1( 1╬╗, h).
It sends pk to the prover.
2. The prover generates (y, ¤â) ÔćÉPMeasure,2(pk, ¤ü). y is a classical ÔÇťcommitmentÔÇŁ,
and ¤â is some internal state. He sends y to the veri´Čüer.
3. The veri´Čüer samples c
$ÔćÉÔłĺ{0, 1} uniformly at random and sends it to the
prover. c = 0 indicates a testing round, while c = 1 indicates a Hadamard
round.
4. The prover generates a classical string a ÔćÉPMeasure,4(pk, c, ¤â) and sends it
back to the veri´Čüer.
5. If it is a testing round (c = 0), then the veri´Čüer generates and outputs o ÔćÉ
VMeasure,T (pk, y, a) where o Ôłł{Acc, Rej}. If it is a Hadamard round (c = 1),
then the veri´Čüer generates and outputs v ÔćÉVMeasure,H( sk, h, y, a).
╬áMeasure has negligible completeness errors, i.e. if both the prover and veri-
´Čüer are honest, the veri´Čüer accepts with overwhelming probability and his output
on Hadamard round is computationally indistinguishable from MXZ(¤ü, h). As for
soundness, it gives the following binding property against cheating provers: if a
prover would always succeed on the testing round, then there exists some ¤ü so that
for any h the veri´Čüer obtains MXZ(¤ü, h) if he had chosen the Hadamard round.
Lemma 1 (binding property of ╬áMeasure; special case of Claim 7.1 in
[30]).
Let P ÔłŚ
Measure be a BQP cheating prover for ╬áMeasure and ╬╗ be the security
parameter. Let 1 Ôłĺph,T be the probability that the veri´Čüer accepts P ÔłŚ
Measure in the

720
K.-M. Chung et al.
testing round on basis choice h.13 Under the QLWE assumption, there exists some
¤üÔłŚso that for all veri´ČüerÔÇÖs input h Ôłł{0, 1}n, the veri´ČüerÔÇÖs outputs on the Hadamard
round is ÔłÜph,T + negl(n)-computationally indistinguishable from MXZ(¤üÔłŚ, h).
We now combine ╬áMeasure with our QPIP1 Protocol for SampBQP, ╬áSamp =
(PSamp, VSamp), to get a corresponding QPIP0 protocol ╬áint. Recall that in ╬áSamp
the veri´Čüer takes X and Z measurements on the proverÔÇÖs message. In ╬áint we let
the veri´Čüer use ╬áMeasure to learn those measurement outcomes instead.
Protocol 2 Intermediate QPIP0 protocol ╬áint for the SampBQP problem
(Dx)xÔłł{0,1}ÔłŚ
Inputs:
ÔÇô Security parameter 1╬╗ where ╬╗ ÔłłN
ÔÇô Error parameter ¤Á Ôłł(0, 1)
ÔÇô Classical input x Ôłł{0, 1}n to the SampBQP instance
Protocol:
1. The veri´Čüer chooses a XZ-measurement h in the same way as in ╬áSamp.
2. The prover prepares ¤ü in the same way as in ╬áSamp.
3. The veri´Čüer and prover run (PMeasure(¤ü), VMeasure(h))(1╬╗).
(a) The veri´Čüer samples (pk, sk) ÔćÉVint,1(1╬╗, h) and sends pk to the prover,
where Vint,1 is the same as VMeasure,1 of Protocol 1.
(b) The prover runs (y, ¤â) ÔćÉPint,2(pk, ¤ü) and sends y to the veri´Čüer, where
Pint,2 is the same as PMeasure,2. Here we allow the prover to abort by
sending y = ÔŐą, which does not bene´Čüt cheating provers but simpli´Čües our
analysis of parallel repetition later.
(c) The veri´Čüer samples c
$ÔćÉÔłĺ{0, 1} and sends it to the prover.
(d) The prover replies a ÔćÉPint,4(pk, c, ¤â).
(e) If it is a testing round, the veri´Čüer accepts or rejects based on the outcome
of ╬áMeasure. If it is a Hadamard round, the veri´Čüer obtains v.
4. If itÔÇÖs a Hadamard round, the veri´Čüer ´Čünishes the veri´Čücation step of ╬áSamp
by generating and outputting (d, z)
There are several problems with using ╬áint as a SampBQP protocol. First,
since the veri´Čüer doesnÔÇÖt get a sample if he had chosen the testing round in
Step 3c, the protocol has completeness error at least 1/2. Moreover, since ╬áMeasure
does not check anything on the Hadamard round, a cheating prover can give up
passing the testing round and breaks the commitment on the Hadamard round,
13 Compared to Claim 7.1 of [30], we donÔÇÖt have a ph,H term here. This is because on
rejecting a Hadamard round, the veri´Čüer can output a uniformly random string, and
that is same as the result of measuring h on the totally mixed state.

Constant-Round Blind Classical Veri´Čücation of Quantum Sampling
721
with only a constant 1/2 probability of being caught. However, we can show that
╬áint has a binding property similar to ╬áMeasure: if a cheating prover P ÔłŚ
int passes
the testing round with overwhelming probability whenever it doesnÔÇÖt abort on
the second message, then the corresponding output (d, z) ÔćÉ(P ÔłŚ
int, Vint) is close
to (d, zideal). Recall the ideal output is

zideal = ÔŐą
if d = Rej
zideal ÔćÉDx
if d = Acc.
This binding property is formalized in Theorem 6. Intuitively, the proof of The-
orem 6 combines the binding property of Protocol 2 (Lemma 1) and ╬áSampÔÇÖs
soundness (Theorem 5). There is a technical issue that Protocol 2 allows the
prover to abort while Protocol 1 does not. This issue is solved by constructing
another BQP prover P ÔłŚfor every cheating prover P ÔłŚ
int. Speci´Čücally, P ÔłŚuses P ÔłŚ
intÔÇÖs
strategy when it doesnÔÇÖt abort, otherwise honestly chooses the totally mixed
state for the veri´Čüer to measure.
Theorem 6 (binding property of ╬áint). Let P ÔłŚ
int be a cheating BQP prover
for ╬áint and ╬╗ be the security parameter. Suppose that Pr [d = Acc | y ╠Ş= ÔŐą, c = 0]
is overwhelming, under the QLWE assumption, then the veri´ČüerÔÇÖs output in the
Hadamard round is O(¤Á)-computationally indistinguishable from (d, zideal).
Proof (Theorem 6). We ´Čürst introduce the dummy strategy for ╬áMeasure, where
the prover chooses ¤ü as the maximally mixed state and executes the rest of
the protocol honestly. It is straightforward to verify that this prover would be
accepted in the testing round with probability 1 Ôłĺnegl(╬╗), but has negligible
probability passing the veri´Čücation after the Hadamard round.
Now we construct a cheating BQP prover for Protocol 2, P ÔłŚ, that does the
same thing as P ÔłŚ
int except at Step 3, where the prover and veri´Čüer runs Protocol 1.
P ÔłŚdoes the following in Step 3: for the second message, run (y, ¤â) ÔćÉPÔłŚ
int,2(pk, ¤ü).
If y ╠Ş= ÔŐą, then reply y; else, run the corresponding step of the dummy strategy
and reply with its results. For the fourth message, if y ╠Ş= ÔŐą, run and reply with
a ÔćÉPÔłŚ
int,4(pk, c, ¤â); else, continue the dummy strategy.
In the following we ´Čüx an x. Let the distribution on h speci´Čüed in Step 1 of
the protocol be px(h). De´Čüne P ÔłŚ
sub(x) as P ÔłŚÔÇÖs response in Step 3. Note that we can
view P ÔłŚ
sub(x) as a prover strategy for Protocol 1. By construction P ÔłŚ
sub(x) passes
testing round with overwhelming probability over px(h), i.e. 
h px(h)ph,T
=
negl(╬╗), where ph,T is P ÔłŚÔÇÖs probability of getting accepted by the prover on the
testing round on basis choice h. By Lemma 1 and CauchyÔÇÖs inequality, there
exists some ¤ü such that 
h px(h) Ôłąvh ÔłĺMXZ(¤ü, h)Ôłąc = negl(╬╗), where we use
ÔłąA ÔłĺBÔłąc = ╬▒ to denote that A is ╬▒-computational indistinguishable to B. There-
fore v = 
h px(h)vh is computationally indistinguishable to 
h px(h)MXZ(¤ü, h).
Combining it with ╬áSampÔÇÖs soundness (Theorem 5), we see that (dÔÇ▓, zÔÇ▓)
ÔćÉ
(P ÔłŚ, Vint)(1╬╗, 11/¤Á, x) is ¤Á-computationally indistinguishable to (dÔÇ▓, zÔÇ▓
ideal).
Now we relate (dÔÇ▓, zÔÇ▓) back to (d, z). First, conditioned on that P ÔłŚ
int aborts,
since dummy strategy will be rejected with overwhelming probability in Hadamard

722
K.-M. Chung et al.
round, we have (dÔÇ▓, zÔÇ▓) is computationally indistinguishable to (Rej, ÔŐą) = (d, z).
On the other hand, conditioned on P ÔłŚ
int not aborting, clearly (d, z) = (dÔÇ▓, zÔÇ▓).
So (d, z) is computationally indistinguishable to (dÔÇ▓, zÔÇ▓), which in turn is O(¤Á)-
computationally indistinguishable to (dÔÇ▓, zÔÇ▓
ideal). Since Ôłąd ÔłĺdÔÇ▓Ôłątr
=
O(¤Á),
(d, zideal) is O(¤Á)-computationally indistinguishable to (dÔÇ▓, zÔÇ▓
ideal). Combining
everything, we conclude that (d, z) is O(¤Á)-computationally indistinguishable to
(d, zideal).
4.2
QPIP0 Protocol for SampBQP
We now introduce our QPIP0 protocol ╬áFinal for SampBQP. It is essentially a
m-fold parallel repetition of ╬áint, from which we uniformly randomly pick one
copy to run Hadamard round to get our samples and run testing round on all
other mÔłĺ1 copies. Intuitively, if the server wants to cheat by sending something
not binding on some copy, he will be caught when that copy is a testing round,
which is with probability 1Ôłĺ1/m. This over-simpli´Čüed analysis does not take into
account that the server might create entanglement between the copies. Therefore,
a more technically involved analysis is required.
In the description of our protocol below, we describe ╬áint and ╬áMeasure in
details in order to introduce notations that we need in our analysis.
Protocol 3 QPIP0 protocol ╬áFinal for the SampBQP problem (Dx)xÔłł{0,1}ÔłŚ
Inputs:
ÔÇô Security parameter 1╬╗ for ╬╗ ÔłłN.
ÔÇô Accuracy parameter 11/¤Á for the SampBQP problem.
ÔÇô Input x Ôłł{0, 1}poly(╬╗) for the SampBQP instance.
Ingredient: Let m = O(1/¤Á2) be the number of parallel repetitions to run.
Protocol:
1. The veri´Čüer generates m independent copies of basis choices h = (h1, . . . , hm),
where each copy is generated as in Step 1 of ╬áint.
2. The prover prepares ¤üÔŐŚm; each copy of ¤ü is prepared as in Step 2 of ╬áint.
3. The veri´Čüer generates m key pairs for ╬áMeasure, pk = (pk1, . . . , pkm) and
sk = (sk1, . . . , skm), as in Step 1 of ╬áMeasure. It sends pk to the prover.
4. The prover generates y = (y1, . . . , ym) and ¤â as in Step 2 of ╬áMeasure. It sends
y to the veri´Čüer.
5. The veri´Čüer samples r
$ÔćÉÔłĺ[m] which is the copy to run Hadamard round
for. For 1 ÔëĄi ÔëĄm, if i ╠Ş= r then set ci ÔćÉ0, else set ci ÔćÉ1. It sends
c = (c1, . . . , cm) to the prover.
6. The prover generates a as in Step 4 of ╬áMeasure, and sends it back to the
veri´Čüer.

Constant-Round Blind Classical Veri´Čücation of Quantum Sampling
723
7. The veri´Čüer computes the outcome for each round as in Step 4 of ╬áint. If any
of the testing round copies are rejected, the veri´Čüer outputs (Rej, ÔŐą). Else, it
outputs the result from the Hadamard round copy.
By inspection, ╬áFinal is a QPIP0 protocol for SampBQP with negligible complete-
ness error. To show that it is computationally sound, we ´Čürst use the partition
lemma from [15].
Intuitively, the partition lemma says that for any cheating prover and for each
copy i Ôłł[m], there exist two e´Čâcient ÔÇťprojectorsÔÇŁ14 G0,i and G1,i in the proverÔÇÖs
internal space with G0,i +G1,i ÔëłId. G0,i and G1,i splits up the proverÔÇÖs residual
internal state after sending back his ´Čürst message. G0,i intuitively represents the
subspace where the prover does not knows the answer to the testing round on the
i-th copy, while G1,i represents the subspace where the prover does. Note that the
prover is using a single internal space for all copies, and every G0,i and every G1,i
is acting on this single internal space. By using this partition lemma iteratively,
we can decompose the proverÔÇÖs internal state |¤łÔčęinto sum of subnormalized
states. First we apply it to the ´Čürst copy, writing |¤łÔčę= G0,1|¤łÔčę+ G1,1|¤łÔčęÔëí
|¤ł0Ôčę+|¤ł1Ôčę. The component |¤ł0Ôčęwould then get rejected as long as the ´Čürst copy
is chosen as a testing round, which occurs with pretty high probability. More
precisely, the output corresponding to |¤ł0Ôčęis 1/m-close to the ideal distribution
that just rejects all the time. On the other hand, |¤ł1Ôčęis now binding on the ´Čürst
copy; we now similarly apply the partition lemma of the second copy to |¤ł1Ôčę. We
write |¤ł1Ôčę= G0,2|¤ł1Ôčę+ G1,2|¤ł1ÔčęÔëí|¤ł10Ôčę+ |¤ł11Ôčę, and apply the same argument
about |¤ł10Ôčęand |¤ł11Ôčę. We then continue to decompose |¤ł11Ôčę= |¤ł110Ôčę+ |¤ł111Ôčę
and so on, until we reach the last copy and obtain |¤ł1mÔčę. Intuitively, the |¤ł1mÔčę
term represents the ÔÇťgoodÔÇŁ component where the prover knows the answer to
every testing round and therefore has high accept probability. Therefore, |¤ł1mÔčę
also satis´Čües some binding property, so the veri´Čüer should obtain a measurement
result of some state on the Hadamard round copy, and the analysis from the
QPIP1 protocol ╬áSamp follows.
However, the intuition that |¤ł1mÔčęis binding to every Hadamard round is
incorrect. As G1,i does not commute with G1,j, |¤ł1mÔčęis unfortunately only
binding for the m-th copy. To solve this problem, we start with a pointwise
argument and ´Čüx the Hadamard round on the i-th copy where |¤ł1iÔčęis binding,
and show that the corresponding output is O(Ôłą|¤ł1iÔłĺ10ÔčęÔłą)-close to ideal. We can
later average out this error over the di´ČÇerent choices of i, since not all Ôłą|¤ł1iÔłĺ10ÔčęÔłą
can be large at the same time. Another way to see this issue is to notice that
we are partitioning a quantum state, not probability events, so there are some
inconsistencies between our intuition and calculation. Indeed, the error we get
in the end is O(

1/m) instead of the O(1/m) we expected.
Also a careful reader might have noticed that the proverÔÇÖs space donÔÇÖt always
decompose cleanly into parts that the veri´Čüer either rejects or accepts with high
probability, as there might be some states that is accepted with mediocre proba-
14 Actually they are not projectors, but for the simplicity of this discussion letÔÇÖs assume
they are.

724
K.-M. Chung et al.
bility. As in [15], we solve this by splitting the space into parts that are accepted
with probability higher or lower than a small threshold ╬│ and applying Marriott-
Watrous [31] ampli´Čücation to boost the accept probability if it is bigger than
╬│, getting a corresponding ampli´Čüed prover action Ext. However, states with
accept probability really close to the threshold ╬│ can not be classi´Čüed, so we
average over randomly chosen ╬│ to have G0,i + G1,i ÔëłId. Now we give a formal
description of the partition lemma.
Lemma 2 (partition lemma; revision of Lemma 3.5 of [15]15). Let ╬╗ be the
security parameter, and ╬│0 Ôłł[0, 1] and T ÔłłN be parameters that will be related
to the randomly-chosen threshold ╬│. Let (U0, U) be a proverÔÇÖs strategy in a m-fold
parallel repetition of ╬áMeasure16, where U0 is how the prover generates y on the
second message, and U is how the prover generates a on the fourth message. Let
HX,Z be the Hilbert space of the proverÔÇÖs internal calculation. Denote the string
0iÔłĺ110mÔłĺi Ôłł{0, 1}m as ei, which corresponds to doing Hadamard round on the
i-th copy and testing round on all others.
For all i Ôłł[m], ╬│ Ôłł

╬│0
T , 2╬│0
T , . . . , T ╬│0
T

, there exist two poly(1/╬│0, T, ╬╗)-
time quantum circuit with post selection17 G0,i,╬│ and G1,i,╬│ such that for all
(possibly sub-normalized) quantum states |¤łÔčęX,Z ÔłłHX,Z, properties 1 2 3 4, to
be described later, are satis´Čüed. Before we describe the properties, we introduce
the following notations:
|¤ł0,i,╬│ÔčęX,Z :=G0,i,╬│|¤łÔčęX,Z,
(4.1)
|¤ł1,i,╬│ÔčęX,Z :=G1,i,╬│|¤łÔčęX,Z,
(4.2)
|¤łerr,i,╬│ÔčęX,Z :=|¤łÔčęX,Z Ôłĺ|¤ł0,i,╬│ÔčęX,Z Ôłĺ|¤ł1,i,╬│ÔčęX,Z.
(4.3)
Note that G0,i,╬│ and G1,i,╬│ has failure probabilities, and this is re´Čéected by the
fact that |¤ł0,i,╬│ÔčęX,Z and |¤ł1,i,╬│ÔčęX,Z are sub-normalized. G0,i,╬│ and G1,i,╬│ depend
on (U0, U) and pk, y.
The following properties are satis´Čüed for all i Ôłł[m]:
15 G0 and G1 of this version are created from doing G of [15] and post-selecting on the
ph, th, in register being 0t01 or 0t11 then discard ph, th, in. Property 1 corresponds
to Property 1. Property 2 corresponds to Property 4, with 2mÔłĺ1 changes to m Ôłĺ1
because we only have m possible choices of c. Property 3 corresponds to Property 5.
Property 4 comes from the fact that G0 and G1 are post-selections of orthogonal
results of the same G.
16 A m-fold parallel repetition of ╬áMeasure is running step 3 4 5 6 of Protocol 3 with
veri´Čüer input h and prover input ¤üÔŐŚn, followed by an output step where the veri´Čüer
rejects if any of the m Ôłĺ1 testing round copies is rejected, otherwise outputs the
result of the Hadamard round copy.
17 A quantum circuit with post selection is composed of unitary gates followed by a
post selection on some measurement outcome on ancilla qubits, so it produces a sub-
normalized state, where the amplitude square of the output state is the probability
of post selection.

Constant-Round Blind Classical Veri´Čücation of Quantum Sampling
725
1.
E
╬│ Ôłą|¤łerr,i,╬│ÔčęX,ZÔłą2 ÔëĄ6
T + negl(╬╗),
where the averaged is over uniformly sampled ╬│. This also implies
E
╬│ Ôłą|¤łerr,i,╬│ÔčęX,ZÔłąÔëĄ

6
T + negl(╬╗)
(4.4)
by CauchyÔÇÖs inequality.
2. For all pk, y, ╬│, and j ╠Ş= i, we have
Pacc,i ÔŚŽU |ejÔčęC|¤ł0,i,╬│ÔčęX,Z
Ôłą|¤ł0,i,╬│ÔčęX,ZÔłą

2
ÔëĄ(m Ôłĺ1)╬│0 + negl(╬╗),
(4.5)
where Pacc,i are projector to the states that i-th testing round accepts with
pki, yi, including the last measurement the prover did before sending a. This
means that |¤ł0,i,╬│Ôčęis rejected by the i-th testing round with high probability.
3. For all pk, y, ╬│, and j ╠Ş= i, there exists an e´Čâcient quantum algorithm Exti
such that
Pacc,i ÔŚŽExti
	|ejÔčęC|¤ł1,i,╬│ÔčęX,Z
Ôłą|¤ł1,i,╬│ÔčęX,ZÔłą


2
= 1 Ôłĺnegl(╬╗).
(4.6)
This will imply that |¤ł1,i,╬│Ôčęis binding to the i-th Hadamard round.
4. For all ╬│,
Ôłą|¤ł0,i,╬│ÔčęX,ZÔłą2 + Ôłą|¤ł1,i,╬│ÔčęX,ZÔłą2 ÔëĄÔłą|¤łÔčęX,ZÔłą2 .
(4.7)
Note that in property 3, we are using Exti instead of U because we use
amplitude ampli´Čücation to boost the success probability.
We now decompose the proverÔÇÖs internal state by using Lemma 2 iteratively.
Let |¤łÔčębe the state the prover holds before he receives c; we denote the corre-
sponding Hilbert space as HX,Z. For all k Ôłł[m], d Ôłł{0, 1}k, ╬│ = (╬│1, . . . , ╬│k)
where each ╬│j Ôłł{ ╬│0
T , 2╬│0
T , . . . , T ╬│0
T }, and |¤łÔčęÔłłHX,Z, de´Čüne
|¤łd,╬│Ôčę:= Gdk,k,╬│k . . . Gd2,2,╬│2Gd1,1,╬│1|¤łÔčę.
For all i Ôłł[m], we then decompose |¤łÔčęinto
|¤łÔčę=
iÔłĺ1

j=0
|¤ł1j0,╬│Ôčę+ |¤ł1i,╬│Ôčę+
i

j=1
|¤łerr,j,╬│Ôčę
(4.8)
by using Equations (4.1) to (4.3) repeatedly, where |¤łerr,i,╬│Ôčędenotes the error
state from decomposing |¤ł1iÔłĺ1,╬│Ôčę.
We denote the projector in HX,Z corresponding to outputting string z when
doing Hadamard on i-th copy as Pacc,Ôłĺi,z. Note that Pacc,Ôłĺi,z also depends on
pk, y, and (ski, hi) since it includes the measurement the prover did before

726
K.-M. Chung et al.
sending a, veri´ČüerÔÇÖs checking on (m Ôłĺ1) copies of testing rounds, and the ver-
i´ČüerÔÇÖs ´Čünal computation from (ski, hi, yi, ai). Pacc,Ôłĺi,z is a projector because
it only involves the standard basis measurements to get a and classical post-
processing of the veri´Čüers. Also note that Pacc,Ôłĺi,zPacc,Ôłĺi,zÔÇ▓ = 0 for all z ╠Ş= zÔÇ▓,
and 
z Pacc,Ôłĺi,z = ╬áj╠Ş=iPacc,j ÔëĄId.
We denote the string 0iÔłĺ110mÔłĺi Ôłł{0, 1}m as ei. The output string corre-
sponding to |¤łÔčęÔłłHX,Z when c = ei is then
zi := E
pk,y

z
ÔłąPacc,Ôłĺi,zU|ei, ¤łÔčęÔłą2 |zÔčęÔčĘz|,
(4.9)
where |ei, ¤łÔčę= |eiÔčęC|¤łÔčęX,Z and U is the unitary the prover applies on the last
round. Note that we have averaged over pk, y where as previously everything
has ´Čüxed pk and y.
By Property 2 of Lemma 2, it clearly follows that
Corollary 1 For all ╬│ Ôłł{ ╬│0
T , 2╬│0
T , . . . , T ╬│0
T }, and all i, j Ôłł[m] such that j < iÔłĺ1,
we have


z
Pacc,Ôłĺi,zU|ei, ¤ł1j0,╬│Ôčę

2
ÔëĄ(m Ôłĺ1)╬│0 + negl(n).
Now we de´Čüne
zgood,i =
E
╬│,pk,y

z
Pacc,Ôłĺi,zU|ei, ¤ł1iÔłĺ11,╬│Ôčę
2 |zÔčęÔčĘz|
(4.10)
as the output corresponding to a component that would pass the i-th testing
rounds. We will show that it is O(Ôłą|¤ł1iÔłĺ10ÔčęÔłą)-close to zi. Before doing so, we
present a technical lemma.
Lemma 3. For any state |¤łÔčę, |¤ćÔčęand projectors {Pz} such that PzPzÔÇ▓ = 0 for
all z ╠Ş= zÔÇ▓, we have

z
|ÔčĘ¤ł|Pz|¤ćÔčę| ÔëĄ






z
Pz|¤łÔčę

2





z
Pz|¤ćÔčę

2
.
Proof.

z
|ÔčĘ¤ł|Pz|¤ćÔčę| =

z
|ÔčĘ¤ł|PzPz|¤ćÔčę| ÔëĄ

z
ÔłąÔčĘ¤ł|PzÔłąÔłąPz|¤ćÔčęÔłą
ÔëĄ

z
ÔłąPz|¤łÔčęÔłą2

z
ÔłąPz|¤ćÔčęÔłą2
ÔëĄ






z
Pz|¤łÔčę

2





z
Pz|¤ćÔčę

2
,
where we used CauchyÔÇÖs inequality on the ´Čürst two inequalities and PzPzÔÇ▓ = 0
on the last one.

Constant-Round Blind Classical Veri´Čücation of Quantum Sampling
727
Corollary 2 For any state |¤łÔčę, |¤ćÔčęand projectors {Pz} such that 
z Pz ÔëĄId
and PzPzÔÇ▓ = 0 for all z ╠Ş= zÔÇ▓, we have

z
|ÔčĘ¤ł|Pz|¤ćÔčę| ÔëĄÔłą¤łÔłąÔłą¤ćÔłą.
Now we can estimate zi using zgood,i, with errors on the orders of Ôłą|¤ł1iÔłĺ10ÔčęÔłą.
This error might not be small in general, but we can average it out later by con-
sidering uniformly random i Ôłł[m]. The analysis is tedious but straightforward;
we simply expand zi and bound the terms that are not zgood,i.
Lemma 4.
tr |zi Ôłĺzgood,i| ÔëĄ
E
pk,y,╬│
|¤ł1iÔłĺ10,╬│Ôčę
2 + 2
|¤ł1iÔłĺ10,╬│Ôčę


+ O
	 m2
ÔłÜ
T
+ m

(m Ôłĺ1)╬│0

.
Proof (Lemma 4). We take expectation of Eq. (4.8) over ╬│
|¤łÔčę= E
╬│
ÔÄí
ÔÄú
iÔłĺ1

j=0
|¤ł1j0,╬│Ôčę+ |¤ł1i,╬│Ôčę+
i

j=1
|¤łerr,j,╬│Ôčę
ÔÄĄ
ÔÄŽ,
and expand zi from Eq. (4.9) as
zi = zgood,i +
E
pk,y,╬│

z
ÔÄí
ÔÄú
iÔłĺ1

k=0
ÔčĘ¤ł1k0,╬│|U ÔÇáPacc,Ôłĺi,zU
iÔłĺ1

j=0
|¤ł1j0,╬│Ôčę
+
iÔłĺ1

k=0
ÔčĘ¤ł1k0,╬│|U ÔÇáPacc,Ôłĺi,zU|¤ł1i,╬│Ôčę+
iÔłĺ1

k=0
ÔčĘ¤ł1k0,╬│|U ÔÇáPacc,Ôłĺi,zU
i

j=1
|¤łerr,j,╬│Ôčę
+ ÔčĘ¤ł1i,╬│|U ÔÇáPacc,Ôłĺi,zU
iÔłĺ1

j=0
|¤ł1j0,╬│Ôčę+ ÔčĘ¤ł1i,╬│|U ÔÇáPacc,Ôłĺi,zU
i

j=1
|¤łerr,j,╬│Ôčę
+
i

k=1
ÔčĘ¤łerr,k,╬│|U ÔÇáPacc,Ôłĺi,zU
iÔłĺ1

j=0
|¤ł1j0,╬│Ôčę+
i

k=1
ÔčĘ¤łerr,k,╬│|U ÔÇáPacc,Ôłĺi,zU|¤ł1i,╬│Ôčę
+
i

k=1
ÔčĘ¤łerr,k,╬│|U ÔÇáPacc,Ôłĺi,zU
i

j=1
|¤łerr,j,╬│Ôčę
ÔÄĄ
ÔÄŽ|zÔčęÔčĘz|,

728
K.-M. Chung et al.
where we omitted writing out ei. Therefore we have
tr|zi Ôłĺzgood,i| ÔëĄ
E
pk,y,╬│

z
ÔÄí
ÔÄú
iÔłĺ1

k=0
iÔłĺ1

j=0
ÔčĘ¤ł1k0,╬│|UÔÇáPacc,Ôłĺi,zU|¤ł1j0,╬│Ôčę

+ 2
iÔłĺ1

k=0
ÔčĘ¤ł1k0,╬│|UÔÇáPacc,Ôłĺi,zU|¤ł1i,╬│Ôčę
 + 2
iÔłĺ1

k=0
i

j=1
ÔčĘ¤ł1k0,╬│|UÔÇáPacc,Ôłĺi,zU|¤łerr,j,╬│Ôčę

+ 2
i

j=1
ÔčĘ¤ł1i,╬│|UÔÇáPacc,Ôłĺi,zU|¤łerr,j,╬│Ôčę
 +
i

k=1
i

j=1
ÔčĘ¤łerr,k,╬│|UÔÇáPacc,Ôłĺi,zU|¤łerr,j,╬│Ôčę

ÔÄĄ
ÔÄŽ
by the triangle inequality. The last three error terms sum to O

m2
ÔłÜ
T

by Corollary
2 and property 1 of Lemma 2. As for the ´Čürst two terms, by Lemma 3 and
Corollary 1, we see that

z
iÔłĺ1

k=0
iÔłĺ1

j=0
ÔčĘ¤ł1k0,╬│|U ÔÇáPacc,Ôłĺi,zU|¤ł1j0,╬│Ôčę

ÔëĄ

z
ÔčĘ¤ł1iÔłĺ10,╬│|U ÔÇáPacc,Ôłĺi,zU|¤ł1iÔłĺ10,╬│Ôčę
 + O

m2(m Ôłĺ1)╬│0

ÔëĄ
|¤ł1iÔłĺ10,╬│Ôčę
2 + O

m2(m Ôłĺ1)╬│0

and similarly

z
iÔłĺ1

k=0
ÔčĘ¤ł1k0,╬│|U ÔÇáPacc,Ôłĺi,zU|¤ł1i,╬│Ôčę

ÔëĄ

z
ÔčĘ¤ł1iÔłĺ10,╬│|U ÔÇáPacc,Ôłĺi,zU|¤ł1i,╬│Ôčę
 + O

m

(m Ôłĺ1)╬│0

ÔëĄ
|¤ł1i,╬│Ôčę
 + O

m

(m Ôłĺ1)╬│0

.
Now let ztrue, as a mixed state, be the correct sample of the SampBQP
instance Dx, and let zideal,i = tr(zgood,i)ztrue. We show that zideal,i is close to
zgood,i.
Lemma 5. zgood,i is O(¤Á)-computationally indistinguishable to zideal,i, where
¤Á ÔłłR is the accuracy parameter picked earlier in ╬áFinal.
Proof (Lemma 5). For every i Ôłł[m] and every prover strategy (U0, U) for ╬áFinal,
consider the following composite strategy, ╬ácomp,i, as a prover for ╬áint. Note that
a prover only interacts with the veri´Čüer in Step 3 of ╬áint where ╬áMeasure is run,
so we describe a proverÔÇÖs action in terms of the four rounds of communication
in ╬áMeasure.
╬ácomp,i tries to run U0 by taking the veri´ČüerÔÇÖs input as the input to the
i-th copy of ╬áMeasure in ╬áFinal and simulating other m Ôłĺ1 copies by himself.

Constant-Round Blind Classical Veri´Čücation of Quantum Sampling
729
The prover then picks a uniformly random ╬│ and tries to generate |¤ł1iÔłĺ11,╬│Ôčę
by applying Gi,1,╬│GiÔłĺ1,1,╬│ ┬Ě ┬Ě ┬Ě G2,1,╬│G1,1,╬│. This can be e´Čâciently done because
of Lemma 2 and our choice of ╬│0 and T in Theorem 7. If the prover fails to
generate |¤ł1iÔłĺ11,╬│Ôčę, he throws out everything and aborts by sending ÔŐąback. On
the fourth round, If itÔÇÖs a testing round the prover reply with the i-th register
of Exti

|ejÔčęC|¤ł1,i,╬│ÔčęX,Z
Ôłą|¤ł1ÔčęX,ZÔłą

, where Exti is speci´Čüed in property 3 of Lemma 2. If itÔÇÖs
the Hadamard round the prover runs U and checks whether every copy except
the i-th copy would be accepted. If all mÔłĺ1 copies are accepted, he replies with
the i-th copy, otherwise reply ÔŐą.
Denote the result we would get in the Hadamard round by zcomposite,i. By
construction, when Gi,1,╬│ . . . G1,1,╬│ succeeded, the corresponding output would
be zgood,i. Also note that this is the only case where the veri´Čüer wonÔÇÖt reject, so
zcomposite,i = zgood,i.
In the testing round, by property 3 of Lemma 2, the above strategy is accepted
with probability 1 Ôłĺnegl(n) when the prover didnÔÇÖt abort. Since the proverÔÇÖs
strategy is also e´Čâcient, by Theorem 6, zcomposite,i is O(¤Á)-computationally indis-
tinguishable to zideal,i.
Now we try to put together all i Ôłł[m]. First let
z = 1
m

i
zi = 1
m

i

z
|zÔčęÔčĘz| ┬Ě ÔčĘei, ¤ł|U ÔÇáPacc,Ôłĺi,zU|ei, ¤łÔčę,
which is the output distribution of ╬áFinal. We also de´Čüne the following accord-
ingly:
zgood := 1
m

i
zgood,i,
zideal := 1
m

i
zideal,i.
Notice that zideal is some ideal output distribution, which might not have the
same accept probability as z.
Theorem 7. Under the QLWE assumption, ╬áFinal is a protocol for the
SampBQP problem (Dx)xÔłł{0,1}ÔłŚwith negligible completeness error and is com-
putationally sound.18
Proof. Completeness is trivial. In the following we prove the soundness.
By Property 4 of Lemma 2, we have
Ôłą|¤łÔčęÔłą2 ÔëąÔłą|¤ł0,╬│ÔčęÔłą2 + Ôłą|¤ł1,╬│ÔčęÔłą2
ÔëąÔłą|¤ł0,╬│ÔčęÔłą2 + Ôłą|¤ł10,╬│ÔčęÔłą2 + Ôłą|¤ł11,╬│ÔčęÔłą2
ÔëąÔłą|¤ł0,╬│ÔčęÔłą2 + Ôłą|¤ł10,╬│ÔčęÔłą2 + ┬Ě ┬Ě ┬Ě +
|¤ł1mÔłĺ10,╬│Ôčę
2 + Ôłą|¤ł1m,╬│ÔčęÔłą2 .
(4.11)
18 The soundness and completeness of a SampBQP protocol is de´Čüned in De´Čünition 3.

730
K.-M. Chung et al.
We have
tr|z Ôłĺzgood| = tr

1
m

i
(zi Ôłĺzgood,i)
 ÔëĄ1
m

i
tr|(zi Ôłĺzgood,i)|
ÔëĄ1
m

i

E
pk,y,╬│
|¤ł1iÔłĺ10,╬│Ôčę
2 + 2
|¤ł1iÔłĺ10,╬│Ôčę


+ O
	 m2
ÔłÜ
T
+ m

(m Ôłĺ1)╬│0


ÔëĄ1
m + 2 1
ÔłÜm + O
	 m2
ÔłÜ
T
+ m

(m Ôłĺ1)╬│0

= O
	 1
ÔłÜm + m2
ÔłÜ
T
+ m

(m Ôłĺ1)╬│0

,
(4.12)
where we used triangle inequality on the ´Čürst inequality, Lemma 4 on the next
one, Eq. 4.11 and CauchyÔÇÖs inequality on the last one. Set m = O(1/¤Á2), T =
O(1/¤Á2), ╬│0 = ¤Á8. Combining Lemma 5 and Eq. (4.12) by triangle inequality,
we have z is O(¤Á)-computationally indistinguishable to zideal. Therefore, (d, z)
O(¤Á)-computationally indistinguishable to (d, zideal).
Theorem 1 follows as a corollary.
5
Generic Blindness Protocol Compiler for QPIP0
In this section, we present a generic protocol compiler that compiles any QPIP0
protocol ╬á = (P, V ) (with an arbitrary number of rounds) to a protocol
╬áblind = (Pblind, Vblind) that achieve blindness while preserving the completeness,
soundness, and round complexity. At a high-level, the idea is simple: we simply
run the original protocol under a quantum homomorphic encryption QHE with
the veri´ČüerÔÇÖs key. Intuitively, this allows the prover to compute his next message
under encryption without learning the underlying veri´ČüerÔÇÖs message, and hence
achieves blindness while preserving the properties of the original protocol.
However, several issues need to be taking care to make the idea work. First,
since the veri´Čüer is classical, we need the quantum homomorphic encryption
scheme QHE to be classical friendly as de´Čüned in our full version [17]. Namely,
the key generation algorithm and the encryption algorithm for classical messages
should be classical, and when the underlying message is classical, the ciphertext
(potentially from homomorphic evaluation) and the decryption algorithm should
be classical as well. Fortunately, the quantum homomorphic encryption scheme
of Mahadev [29] and Brakerski [12] are classical friendly. Moreover, BrakerskiÔÇÖs
scheme requires a weaker QLWE assumption, where the modulus is polynomial
instead of super-polynomial.
A more subtle issue is to preserve the soundness. Intuitively, the soundness
holds since the execution of ╬áblind simulates the execution of ╬á, and hence the
soundness of ╬á implies the soundness of ╬áblind. However, to see the subtle issue,

Constant-Round Blind Classical Veri´Čücation of Quantum Sampling
731
let us consider the following naive compiler that uses a single key: In ╬áblind, the
veri´Čüer V initially generates a pair QHE key (pk, sk), sends pk and encrypted
input QHE.Enc(pk, x) to P. Then they run ╬á under encryption with this key,
where both of them use homomorphic evaluation to compute their next message.
There are two reasons that the compiled protocol ╬áblind may not be sound (or
even not blind). First, in general, the QHE scheme may not have circuit privacy;
namely, the homomorphic evaluation may leak information about the circuit
being evaluated. Since the veri´Čüer computes his next message using homomor-
phic evaluation, a cheating prover P ÔłŚ
blind seeing the homomorphically evaluated
ciphertext of the veri´ČüerÔÇÖs message may learn information about the veri´ČüerÔÇÖs
next message circuit, which may contain information about the secret input x
or help P ÔłŚ
blind to break the soundness. Second, P ÔłŚ
blind may send invalid ciphertexts
to V , so the execution of ╬áblind may not simulate a valid execution of ╬á.
To resolve the issue, we let the veri´Čüer switch to a fresh new key for each
round of the protocol.19 For example, when the prover Pblind returns the cipher-
text of his ´Čürst message, the veri´Čüer Vblind decrypts the ciphertext, computes his
next message (in the clear), and then encrypt it using a fresh key pkÔÇ▓ and sends
it to Pblind. Note that a fresh key pair is necessary here to ensure blindness,
as decrypting uses information from the secret key. Since the veri´Čüer Vblind only
sends fresh ciphertexts to Pblind, this avoids the issue of circuit privacy. Addition-
ally, to allow Pblind to homomorphically evaluate its next message, Vblind needs
to encrypt the previous secret key sk under the new public key pkÔÇ▓ and send
it along with pkÔÇ▓ to Pblind. This allows the prover to homomorphically convert
ciphertexts under key pk to ciphertexts under key pkÔÇ▓. By doing so, we show that
for any cheating prover P ÔłŚ
blind, the interaction (P ÔłŚ
blind, Vblind) indeed simulates a
valid interaction of (P ÔłŚ, V ) for some cheating P ÔłŚ, and hence the soundness of
╬á implies the soundness of the compiled protocol. Finally, for the issue of the
prover sending invalid ciphertexts, we note that this is not an issue if the decryp-
tion never fails, which can be achieved by simply let the decryption algorithm
output a default dummy message (e.g., 0) when it fails.
We note that the idea of running the protocol under homomorphic encryp-
tions is used in [16] in a classical setting, but for a di´ČÇerent purpose of making
the protocol ÔÇťcomputationally simulatableÔÇŁ in their context.
We proceed to present our compiler. We start by introducing the notation of
a QPIP0 protocol ╬á as follows.
19 An alternative strategy is to assume circuit privacy of QHE. This seems to require
many additional properties such as malicious circuit privacy with e´Čâcient simula-
tion and extraction when QHE.Keygen is honest and secret key is available, multi-hop
evaluation, and classical QHE.Eval on classical ciphertexts and circuits. While exist-
ing constructions such as [14] achieves some of these properties, we are unsure if any
construction satis´Čües all of these requirements.

732
K.-M. Chung et al.
Protocol 4 QPIP0 protocol ╬á = (P, V )(x) where only the veri´Čüer receives
outputs
Common inputs20:
ÔÇô Security parameter 1╬╗ where ╬╗ ÔłłN
ÔÇô A classical input x Ôłł{0, 1}poly(╬╗)
Protocol:
1. V generates (v1, stV,1) ÔćÉV1(1╬╗, x) and sends v1 to the prover.
2. P generates (p1, stP,1) ÔćÉP1(1╬╗, v1, x) and sends p1 to the veri´Čüer.
3. for t = 2, . . . , T:
(a) V generates (vt, stV,t) ÔćÉVt(ptÔłĺ1, stV,tÔłĺ1) and sends vt to the prover.
(b) P generates (pt, stP,t) ÔćÉPt(vt, stP,tÔłĺ1) and sends pt to the veri´Čüer.
4. V computes its output o ÔćÉVout(pT , stV,T ).
We compile the above protocol to achieve blindness as follows. For notation,
when there are many sets of QHE keys in play at the same time, we use x(i) to
denote x encrypted under pki.
Protocol 5 Blind QPIP0 protocol ╬áblind = (Pblind, Vblind(x)) corresponding to ╬á0
Inputs:
ÔÇô Common input: Security parameter 1╬╗ where ╬╗ ÔłłN
ÔÇô Veri´ČüerÔÇÖs input: x Ôłł{0, 1}poly(╬╗)
Ingredients:
ÔÇô Let L be the maximum circuit depth of Pt.
Protocol:
1. Vblind generates (v1, stV,1) ÔćÉV1(1╬╗, x). Then it generates (pk1, sk1) ÔćÉ
QHE.Keygen(1╬╗, 1L), and encrypts x(1) ÔćÉQHE.Enc(pk1, x) and v(1)
1
ÔćÉ
QHE.Enc(pk1, v1). It sends pk1, x(1), and v(1)
1
to the prover.
2. Pblind
generates
(p(1)
1 , st
(1)
P,1)
ÔćÉ
Pblind,1(1╬╗, v(1)
1 , x(1))
by
evaluating
(p(1)
1 , st
(1)
P,1) ÔćÉQHE.Eval(pk, P1,
QHE.Enc(pk1, 1╬╗), v(1)
1 , x(1)). It sends p(1)
1
to the veri´Čüer.
3. for t = 2, . . . , T:
20 For the sake of simplicity, we omit accuracy parameter ¤Á where it exists

Constant-Round Blind Classical Veri´Čücation of Quantum Sampling
733
(a) Vblind
decrypts
the
proverÔÇÖs
last
message
by
ptÔłĺ1
ÔćÉ
QHE.Dec
(sktÔłĺ1, p(tÔłĺ1)
tÔłĺ1 ), then generates (vt, stV,t) ÔćÉVt(ptÔłĺ1, stV,tÔłĺ1). Then it
generates (pkt, skt) ÔćÉQHE.Keygen(1╬╗, 1L), and produces encryptions
v(t)
t
ÔćÉQHE.Enc(pkt, vt) and 
sk
(t)
tÔłĺ1 ÔćÉQHE.Enc(pkt, sktÔłĺ1). It sends pkt,
v(t)
t , and 
sk
(t)
tÔłĺ1 to the prover.
(b) Pblind generates (p(t)
t , st
(t)
P,t) ÔćÉPblind,t(v(t)
t , 
sk
(t)
tÔłĺ1, st
(tÔłĺ1)
P,tÔłĺ1) by ´Čürst switch-
ing its encryption key; that is, it encrypts its state under the new key by
st
(tÔłĺ1,t)
P,tÔłĺ1
ÔćÉQHE.Enc(pkt, st
(tÔłĺ1)
P,tÔłĺ1)), then homomorphically decrypts the
old encryption by st
(t)
P,tÔłĺ1 ÔćÉQHE.Eval(pkt, QHE.Dec,

sk
(t)
tÔłĺ1, st
(tÔłĺ1,t)
P,tÔłĺ1 ).
Then it applies the next-message function homomorphically, generating
(p(t)
t , st
(t)
P,t) ÔćÉQHE.Eval(pkt, Pt, v(t)
t , st
(t)
P,tÔłĺ1). It sends p(t)
t
back to the
veri´Čüer.
4. Vblind decrypts the proverÔÇÖs ´Čünal message by pT ÔćÉQHE.Dec(skT , p(T )
T ). It
then computes its output o ÔćÉVout(pT , stV,T ).
By the correctness of QHE, the completeness error of ╬áblind is negligibly close to
that of ╬á. In particular, note that the level parameter L is su´Čâcient for the honest
prover which has a bounded complexity. For the soundness property, we show the
following lemma, which implies that ╬áblind preserves the soundness of ╬á0.
Theorem 8. For all cheating BQP provers P ÔłŚ
blind, there exists a cheating BQP
prover P ÔłŚs.t. for all ╬╗ and inputs x Ôłł{0, 1}poly(╬╗), the output distributions of
(P ÔłŚ
blind, Vblind(x)) and (P ÔłŚ, V )(x) are identical.
Proof. We de´Čüne P ÔłŚas follows.
For the ´Čürst rounds, it generates (pk1, sk1) ÔćÉQHE.Keygen(1╬╗, 1L), then pro-
duces the encryptions x(1) ÔćÉQHE.Enc(pk1, x) and v(1)
1
ÔćÉQHE.Enc(pk1, v1).
It then runs (p(1)
1 , st
(1)
P,1) ÔćÉPblind,1(1╬╗, v(1)
1 , x(1)). Finally, it decrypts p1 ÔćÉ
QHE.Dec(sk1, p(1)
1 ) and sends it back to the veri´Čüer, and keeps st
(1)
P,1 and sk1.
For the other rounds, it generates (pkt, skt) ÔćÉQHE.Keygen(1╬╗, 1L), and pro-
duces ciphertexts v(t)
t
ÔćÉQHE.Enc(pkt, vt)) and 
sk
(t)
tÔłĺ1 ÔćÉQHE.Enc(pkt, sktÔłĺ1).
It then runs (p(t)
t , st
(t)
P,t) ÔćÉPblind,t(v(t)
t , 
sk
(t)
tÔłĺ1, st
(tÔłĺ1)
P,tÔłĺ1). Finally, it decrypts pt ÔćÉ
QHE.Dec(skt, p(1)
t ) and sends it back to the veri´Čüer, and keeps st
(t)
P,t and skt.
By construction, the experiments (P ÔłŚ
blind, Vblind(x)) and (P ÔłŚ, V )(x) are iden-
tical.
Finally, we show the blindness of ╬áblind through a standard hybrid argument
where the skiÔÇÖs are ÔÇťerasedÔÇŁ one by one, starting from skT . Once sk1 is eventually
erased, QHE.Enc(pk1, x) and QHE.Enc(pk1, 0) become indistinguishable due to
the IND-CPA security of QHE.Enc. We now ´Čüll in the details.

734
K.-M. Chung et al.
Theorem 9. Under the QLWE assumption with polynomial modulus, ╬áblind is
blind.
Proof. We show that for all cheating BQP provers P ÔłŚ, ╬╗ ÔłłN, x Ôłł{0, 1}n, P ÔłŚ
cannot distinguish (P ÔłŚ, Vblind(x))(1╬╗) from (P ÔłŚ, Vblind(0n))(1╬╗) with noticeable
probability in ╬╗. We use a hybrid argument; let Hybx
T +1 = (P ÔłŚ, Vblind(x))(1╬╗)
and Hyb0
T +1 = (P ÔłŚ, Vblind(0n))(1╬╗). For 2 ÔëĄt < T + 1, de´Čüne Hybx
t to be the
same as Hybx
t+1, except when Vblind should send v(t)
t
and 
sk
(t)
tÔłĺ1, it instead sends
encryptions of 0 under pkt. We de´Čüne Hybx
1 to be the same as Hybx
2 except the
veri´Čüer sends encryptions of 0 under pk1 in place of x(1) and v(1)
1 . We de´Čüne
Hyb0
t similarly. Note that Hybx
1 and Hyb0
1 are identical.
For all t, from the perspective of the prover, as it receives no information
on skt, Hybx
t+1 is computationally indistinguishable from Hybx
t due to the CPA
security of QHE under pkt. By a standard hybrid argument, we observe that Hybx
1
is computationally indistinguishable with Hybx
T +1. We use the same argument for
the computational indistinguishability between Hyb0
1 and Hyb0
T +1. We conclude
that P ÔłŚcannot distinguish between Hybx
T +1 and Hyb0
T +1, therefore ╬áblind is
blind.
Applying our compiler to the parallel repetition of MahadevÔÇÖs protocol for
BQP from [7,15] and our QPIP0 protocol ╬áFinal from Protocol 3 for SampBQP
yields the ´Čürst constant-round blind QPIP0 protocol for BQP and SampBQP,
respectively.
Theorem 10. Under the QLWE assumption, there exists a blind, four-message
QPIP0 protocol for all languages in BQP with negligible completeness and sound-
ness errors.
Theorem 11. Under the QLWE assumption, there exists a blind, four-message
QPIP0 protocol for all sampling problems in SampBQP with negligible complete-
ness error and computational soundness.
Acknowledgments. The authors would like to thank Tomoyuki Morimae for his valu-
able feedback that helped improve the paper and for pointing out the related works
[26,38]. We are also thankful to anonymous reviewers for various useful comments.
Kai-Min Chung is partially supported by the 2019 Academia Sinica Career Devel-
opment Award under Grant no. 23-17, and MOST QC project under Grant no. MOST
108-2627-E-002-001. This work was done while Yi Lee was a´Čâliated to Academia Sinica
and to National Taiwan University. Part of this work was done while Han-Hsuan Lin
was supported by Scott AaronsonÔÇÖs Vannevar Bush Faculty Fellowship from the US
Department of Defense. Partially funded by MOST Grant no. 110-2222-E-007-002-
MY3. Xiaodi Wu is partially supported by the U.S. National Science Foundation grant
CCF-1755800, CCF-1816695, and CCF-1942837 (CAREER).

Constant-Round Blind Classical Veri´Čücation of Quantum Sampling
735
References
1. Aaronson, S.: The aaronson $25.00 prize. http://www.scottaaronson.com/blog/?
p=284
2. Aaronson, S.: The equivalence of sampling and searching. Theory Comput. Syst.
55(2), 281ÔÇô298 (2013)
3. Aaronson, S., Arkhipov, A.: The computational complexity of linear optics. In:
Proceedings of the Forty-Third Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Comput-
ing, STOC 2011, New York, NY, USA, pp. 333ÔÇô342. Association for Computing
Machinery (2011)
4. Aharonov, D., Ben-Or, M., Eban, E., Mahadev, U.: Interactive proofs for quantum
computations. arXiv:1704.04487 (2017)
5. Aharonov, D., Van Dam, W., Kempe, J., Landau, Z., Lloyd, S., Regev, O.: Adia-
batic quantum computation is equivalent to standard quantum computation. SIAM
Rev. 50(4), 755ÔÇô787 (2008)
6. Alagic, G., Dulek, Y., Scha´ČÇner, C., Speelman, F.: Quantum fully homomorphic
encryption with veri´Čücation (2017)
7. Alagic, G., Childs, A.M., Grilo, A.B., Hung, S.-H.: Non-interactive classical ver-
i´Čücation of quantum computation. In: Pass, R., Pietrzak, K. (eds.) TCC 2020.
LNCS, vol. 12552, pp. 153ÔÇô180. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-64381-2 6
8. Arute, F., Arya, K., Babbush, R., et al.: Quantum supremacy using a pro-
grammable superconducting processor. Nature 574(7779), 505ÔÇô510 (2019)
9. Bartusek, J.: Secure quantum computation with classical communication (2021)
10. Bellare, M., Impagliazzo, R., Naor, M.: Does parallel repetition lower the error in
computationally sound protocols? In: 38th Annual Symposium on Foundations of
Computer Science, FOCS 1997, Miami Beach, Florida, USA, 19ÔÇô22 October 1997,
pp. 374ÔÇô383 (1997)
11. Biamonte, J.D., Love, P.J.: Realizable Hamiltonians for universal adiabatic quan-
tum computers. Phys. Rev. A 78, 012352 (2008)
12. Brakerski, Z.: Quantum FHE (almost) as secure as classical. In: Shacham, H.,
Boldyreva, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2018. LNCS, vol. 10993, pp. 67ÔÇô95. Springer, Cham
(2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-96878-0 3
13. Broadbent, A., Fitzsimons, J., Kashe´Čü, E.: Universal blind quantum computation.
In: 2009 50th Annual IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science, pp.
517ÔÇô526 (2009)
14. Chardouvelis, O., D┬Ęottling, N., Malavolta, G.: Rate-1 quantum fully homomorphic
encryption. In: Nissim, K., Waters, B. (eds.) TCC 2021. LNCS, vol. 13042, pp.
149ÔÇô176. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-90459-3 6
15. Chia, N.-H., Chung, K.-M., Yamakawa, T.: Classical veri´Čücation of quantum com-
putations with e´Čâcient veri´Čüer. In: Pass, R., Pietrzak, K. (eds.) TCC 2020. LNCS,
vol. 12552, pp. 181ÔÇô206. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-64381-2 7
16. Chung, K.-M.: E´Čâcient parallel repetition theorems with applications to security
ampli´Čücation. PhD thesis, Harvard University (2011)
17. Chung, K.-M., Lee, Y., Lin, H.-H., Wu, X.: Constant-round blind classical veri´Čü-
cation of quantum sampling (2021)
18. Coladangelo, A., Grilo, A.B., Je´ČÇery, S., Vidick, T.: Veri´Čüer-on-a-leash: new
schemes for veri´Čüable delegated quantum computation, with quasilinear resources.
In: Ishai, Y., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2019. LNCS, vol. 11478, pp. 247ÔÇô277.
Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-17659-4 9

736
K.-M. Chung et al.
19. Cr┬┤epeau, C., Gottesman, D., Smith, A.: Secure multi-party quantum computa-
tion. In: Proceedings of the Thirty-Fourth Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of
Computing - STOC 2002. ACM Press (2002)
20. Dupuis, F., Nielsen, J.B., Salvail, L.: Actively secure two-party evaluation of any
quantum operation. In: Safavi-Naini, R., Canetti, R. (eds.) CRYPTO 2012. LNCS,
vol. 7417, pp. 794ÔÇô811. Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-642-32009-5 46
21. Fitzsimons, J.F., Hajdu╦çsek, M., Morimae, T.: Post hoc veri´Čücation of quantum
computation. Phys. Rev. Lett. 120, 040501 (2018)
22. Fitzsimons, J.F., Kashe´Čü, E.: Unconditionally veri´Čüable blind quantum computa-
tion. Phys. Rev. A 96, 012303 (2017)
23. Gheorghiu, A., Kashe´Čü, E., Wallden, P.: Robustness and device independence of
veri´Čüable blind quantum computing. New J. Phys. 17(8), 083040 (2015)
24. Gheorghiu, A., Vidick, T.: Computationally-secure and composable remote state
preparation. In: FOCS, pp. 1024ÔÇô1033 (2019)
25. Hajdu╦çsek, M., P┬┤erez-Delgado, C.A., Fitzsimons, J.F.: Device-independent veri´Čü-
able blind quantum computation. arXiv e-prints, arXiv:1502.02563, February 2015
26. Hayashi, M., Morimae, T.: Veri´Čüable measurement-only blind quantum computing
with stabilizer testing. Phys. Rev. Lett. 115(22), 220502 (2015)
27. Kempe, J., Kitaev, A., Regev, O.: The complexity of the local Hamiltonian prob-
lem. SIAM J. Comput. 35(5), 1070ÔÇô1097 (2006)
28. Kitaev, A.Y., Shen, A., Vyalyi, M.N.: Classical and Quantum Computation. Grad-
uate Studies in Mathematics. American Mathematical Society (2002)
29. Mahadev, U.: Classical homomorphic encryption for quantum circuits. In: 2018
IEEE 59th Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS)
(2018)
30. Mahadev, U.: Classical veri´Čücation of quantum computations. In: 2018 IEEE 59th
Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS) (2018)
31. Marriott, C., Watrous, J.: Quantum Arthur-Merlin games. Comput. Complex.
14(2), 122ÔÇô152 (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/s00037-005-0194-x
32. Morimae, T., Nagaj, D., Schuch, N.: Quantum proofs can be veri´Čüed using only
single-qubit measurements. Phys. Rev. A 93, 022326 (2016)
33. Pietrzak, K., Wikstr┬Ęom, D.: Parallel repetition of computationally sound protocols
revisited. J. Cryptol. 25(1), 116ÔÇô135 (2012)
34. Regev, O.: On lattices, learning with errors, random linear codes, and cryptogra-
phy. J. ACM 56(6), 34:1ÔÇô34:40 (2009)
35. Reichardt, B.W., Unger, F., Vazirani, U.: Classical command of quantum systems.
Nature 496(7746), 456 (2013)
36. Shepherd, D., Bremner, M.J.: Temporally unstructured quantum computation.
Proc. R. Soc. A. 465, 1413ÔÇô1439 (2009)
37. Shor, P.W.: Algorithms for quantum computation: discrete logarithms and factor-
ing. In: Proceedings 35th Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science,
pp. 124ÔÇô134 (1994)
38. Takeuchi, Y., Morimae, T.: Veri´Čücation of many-qubit states. Phys. Rev. X 8(2),
021060 (2018)

