From Random Probing to Noisy Leakages
Without Field-Size Dependence
Gianluca Brian1(B)
, Stefan Dziembowski2
, and Sebastian Faust3
1 ETH Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland
gianluca.brian@inf.ethz.ch
2 University of Warsaw and IDEAS NCBR, Warsaw, Poland
stefan.dziembowski@crypto.edu.pl
3 Technical University of Darmstadt, Darmstadt, Germany
sebastian.faust@tu-darmstadt.de
Abstract. Side channel attacks are devastating attacks targeting cryp-
tographic implementations. To protect against these attacks, various
countermeasures have been proposed – in particular, the so-called mask-
ing scheme. Masking schemes work by hiding sensitive information via
secret sharing all intermediate values that occur during the evaluation
of a cryptographic implementation. Over the last decade, there has been
broad interest in designing and formally analyzing such schemes. The
random probing model considers leakage where the value on each wire
leaks with some probability ϵ. This model is important as it implies secu-
rity in the noisy leakage model via a reduction by Duc et al. (Eurocrypt
2014). Noisy leakages are considered the “gold-standard” for analyzing
masking schemes as they accurately model many real-world physical leak-
ages. Unfortunately, the reduction of Duc et al. is non-tight, and in par-
ticular requires that the amount of noise increases by a factor of |F| for
circuits that operate over F (where F is a ﬁnite ﬁeld). In this work, we
give a generic transformation from ε-random probing to δ-average prob-
ing, with δ ≈ε2, which avoids this loss of |F|. Since the average probing is
identical to the noisy leakage model (Eurocrypt 2014), this yields for the
ﬁrst time a security analysis of masked circuits where the noise parameter
in the noisy leakage model is independent of |F|. The latter is particularly
important for cryptographic schemes operating over large ﬁelds, e.g., the
AES or the recently standardized post-quantum schemes.
1
Introduction
Side-channel attacks target cryptographic implementations by exploiting physi-
cal phenomena such as the power consumption or running time of a device [20,
21]. They extract sensitive information about the internals of the computation,
often leading to devastating attacks against cryptographic implementations. One
of the most prominent countermeasures to defeat side-channel attacks is the
G. Brian—Work partially done while at Sapienza University of Rome and University
of Warsaw.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2024
M. Joye and G. Leander (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2024, LNCS 14654, pp. 345–374, 2024.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-58737-5_13

346
G. Brian et al.
masking scheme [12,19]. The basic idea of masking is to hide sensitive informa-
tion by randomizing all internal values that occur during the computation. This
typically works by encoding all internal values v ∈F via a randomized encoding
scheme (v1, . . . , vn) ←Enc(v) and designing algorithms that securely compute
on these encodings. Since designing secure masking schemes is challenging, most
state-of-the-art masking schemes are proven secure within a security model. The
security model captures the power of the adversary, which in particular requires
us to accurately model the side-channel leakage emitting from a device. Over the
last decade, there has been lots of interest in designing and analyzing masking
schemes (see, e.g., [2,8,11,13–16,19,24] and many more), where one of the most
fundamental challenges is to come up with an accurate model for real-world
side-channel attacks. Below we brieﬂy recap the history of leakage models that
have been considered for masking schemes.
The t-Probing Model. The t-probing model was introduced in the seminal work of
Ishai, Sahai, and Wagner [19]. The authors model (cryptographic) computation
as a Boolean circuit C, where the wires of the circuit carry the sensitive values.
In the t-probing model, the adversary obtains the values of up to t wires in C,
which should not reveal more information about the cryptographic computation
than what can be learned by just black-box access to the device. As this is a
highly relevant attack in practice, security analysis in the t-probing model is the
de-facto standard when designing and analyzing masking schemes.
Noisy Leakages. While the t-probing model is an excellent ﬁrst step for verifying
the security of a masking scheme, it has two shortcomings for modeling real-world
leakages accurately. On the one hand, it is too restrictive as it requires that the
leakage is quantitatively bounded. This is in contrast to real-world leakages,
which rarely can be described by a small number of bits; e.g., a physical power
measurement typically results in megabytes of data that the adversary has to
store. On the other hand, the t-probing leakage model is too generous. It allows
the adversary to learn the exact value on some of the wires of the computation.
Non-invasive real-world leakages, however, are typically rather noisy, and that
noise is precisely what makes a side-channel attack diﬃcult to carry out in
practice. To address this shortcoming, Prouﬀand Rivain introduce the important
model of noisy leakages [24]. Here, the adversary obtains a noisy version of each
value carried on a wire during the computation of the circuit (e.g., the value
perturbed by a Gaussian distribution).
More formally, consider a uniform random variable X over some ﬁnite ﬁeld
F. A leakage function ν is said to be δ noisy if the statistical distance between
the uniform distribution X and the conditional distribution X|ν(X) is upper
bounded by δ. Hence, by choosing δ appropriately, we can cover a broad range
of diﬀerent noise distributions. Moreover, the noisy leakage model eliminates
the quantitative bound on the amount of leakage that an adversary obtains,
thus incorporating many realistic leakages such as the horizontal side-channel
attacks [4]. Hence, it is considered the practically most relevant leakage model
for a security evaluation of masked circuits. Unfortunately, however, the noisy

From Random Probing to Noisy Leakages Without Field-Size Dependence
347
leakage model has a signiﬁcant drawback. An analysis in this model is highly
complex, which was one of the reasons why in their original work, Prouﬀand
Rivain were only able to give a security proof assuming that some parts of the
masked computation is leak free.
Random Probing Model. In a follow-up work, Duc, Dziembowski, and Faust [15]
observed that, somewhat surprisingly, the noisy leakage model is equivalent to
the random probing model [19]. In the random probing model, we consider a
particular noise distribution, where each wire leaks with some probability ε.
More concretely, for a ε-random probing leakage function ρ, we have for all
x ∈F that Pr[ρ(x) ̸= ⊥] = ϵ. The main result of Duc et al. is then to show
that any δ-noisy leakage function can be simulated via some ε random probing
function (for some ε related to δ). As analyzing security in the random probing
model is much simpler than a security proof in the noisy leakage model, Duc et
al. can show that the original ISW construction is δ noisy leakage resilient for
some parameter δ without requiring any leak-free computation.
Because of the connection between noisy leakages and the random probing
model, there has been signiﬁcant interest in proposing new constructions and
analyzing their security in the random probing model [1–3,6–8,10]. Important
goals are ﬁnding new constructions that achieve security for a (nearly) optimal
noise parameter δ, optimizing overheads of the masked algorithms, and pre-
senting new composition results and automated tools for easing the analysis of
masking schemes in the random probing model.
Shortcoming of an Analysis in the Random Probing Model. While δ-noisy leakage
and ε-random probing leakage functions are related via the reduction of Duc et
al., there is a signiﬁcant loss between these two models. Concretely, for some
δ > 0 to simulate the output of the δ-noisy leakage function ν(·) via an ε-
random probing ρ(·), we need that ε = δ · |F|. Put diﬀerently: suppose that for
some ε > 0 we prove the security of the masking scheme in the ε-random probing
model. When we transfer this result via the reduction of Duc et al. [15] to the
more realistic δ-noisy leakage model, we lose a factor of |F|. While such a loss is
generally undesirable, it is particularly problematic when |F| is large. Examples
of such cases include the masking of the AES, which works in GF(28), or even
worse when masking some of the recent post-quantum schemes that typically
operate in much larger ﬁelds.
Average Probing Model. To address the loss in the reduction of [15], Dziem-
bowski, Faust and Skorski [17] introduce the average probing model. The aver-
age probing model makes a subtle but important change to the random probing
model. In particular, a function α is said to be δ-average probing if for a uni-
formly random X ←F, we have that Pr[α(X) ̸= ⊥] = δ. Here, the probability is
taken over the randomness of α and the choice of X. As a main result, Dziem-
bowski et al. present a tight reduction between average probing and noisy leak-
ages. Concretely, for any ﬁeld F, any δ-noisy leakage function ν can eﬃciently
be simulated by some δ-average probing leakage function.

348
G. Brian et al.
While at ﬁrst sight average probing looks very similar to random probing
leakage, it turns out that a security analysis in the average probing model is
signiﬁcantly more challenging. Concretely, in [17] the authors present a masking
compiler that while eliminating the loss of |F| again requires that certain parts
of the computation are leak-free.
Related Work. By changing the metric for the computation of the noisy leakage,
Prest, Goudarzi, Martinelli and Passel`egue [23] prove a tighter bound. Namely,
the authors consider two worst-case metrics, Relative Error and Average Relative
Error, to measure the noisy leakage. The advantage of using such metrics is that
they allow for proofs that do not have a security loss in the size of the ﬁeld; in
particular, they are able to reduce ε-random probing to ε-ARE-noisy leakage.
However, the ARE metric incurs in bigger overheads, compared to Statistical
Distance, when measuring leakage of functions; as an example, they consider the
hamming weight with gaussian noise, which has a overhead of

log(|F|) in the
ARE setting compared to the SD setting.
Other ways to get rid of the loss in the ﬁeld size is to consider arithmetic
programs [18] instead of circuits or consider ﬁelds of characteristic 2 [5]. In the
ﬁrst case, in particular, even if arithmetic programs and circuits are equiva-
lent, a program allows to split the computation in smaller logical instructions
(i.e., the word size of the computer) and consider the noisy leakage from those
instructions. This, in turns, allows for a security loss of just log(|F|).
1.1
Our Contribution
The main result of our work is to present a generic compiler that transforms any
circuits C with security against random probing into a circuit ˆC with security
in the average probing model. Our transformation does not require leak free
computation. Thus, using the tight relation between average probing and noisy
leakages, we can show that any circuit C working over an arbitrary ﬁeld F which
is ε-random probing secure, can be transformed into a circuit ˆC that is δ-noisy
leakage resilient, where (a) ˆC does not require leak-free computation, and (b) δ
is independent of |F|. In particular, if ε is a constant, then δ ≈ε2 is a constant
(independent of |F| and the security parameter λ).
High-Level Idea. The main idea of our compiler is to ensure that any value x ∈F
occurring in the original circuit C is “encoded” into a sharing (x1, x2) ∈F2 where
individually each share xi is (almost) uniformly distributed over F. Let us brieﬂy
discuss the main idea by taking a look at the most simple case of a circuit that
consists only of a single wire x. In our transformed circuit ˆC the value x is
represented by a secret sharing (x1, x2), where x1, x2 are uniformly random in
F subject to the constrained that x1 + x2 = x. Our approach now works by
using random probing leakage from x to simulate the average probing leakage
from (x1, x2). More concretely, we show that for any δ-average probing leakage
function α the leakage (α(x1), α(x2)) can be simulated from ε = 2δ-random
probing leakage of x.

From Random Probing to Noisy Leakages Without Field-Size Dependence
349
The basic idea to show the above statement is as follows. Since (x1, x2) is
a secret sharing of x, each one of x1, x2 is uniformly random when considered
independently, and therefore the marginal probability that any of them leaks is
exactly δ. Then, by the union bound, the probability that any of x1, x2 leaks is
bounded by 2δ. The strategy is then to construct a simulator Sim that outputs
(⊥, ⊥) (i.e., no leakage occurred) when the random probing leakage is ⊥, and is
able to fully simulate the values on the wires (and, therefore, the corresponding
leakage) when the random probing leakage is x ∈F. Clearly, upon input x ∈F,
the simulator Sim(x) cannot naively output the real distribution, since otherwise
(⊥, ⊥) would be output too often and the simulated average probing leakage
would not be identically distributed to the real one; instead, Sim(x) adjusts
the probabilities so that (⊥, ⊥) is output less often, in order to match the real
distribution. This can be done eﬃciently, e.g., by rejection sampling.
In the previous paragraph, we only described the most simple case where
we simulate average probing leakage from a single encoding (x1, x2) ←Enc(x).
Our analysis gets much more involved, when we move to the setting where the
adversary obtains leakage from the entire computation. For a high-level overview
how we can simulate average random probing leakage of an encoded complex
circuit from random probing leakage of an (unencoded) circuit, we refer the
reader to the technical overview in Sect. 1.2.
Impact. We believe that our work shows a missing piece for the analysis of mask-
ing schemes. As discussed above, currently there is lots of interest in designing
new masking countermeasures in the random probing model. However, to trans-
form these results to the noisy leakage model, all these works will require a noise
parameter δ that decreases by 1/|F|.1 Our result shows that any of the existing
constructions for random probing leakage can be transformed into a construc-
tion that is secure against noisy leakage without suﬀering this loss. One direct
application of our result is to show that for any ﬁeld F the ISW construction
is noisy leakage resilient for δ ≈1/n2 (where n is the number of shares used in
the ISW-masked circuit). Earlier results required either leak-free gates [17] or
required a noise parameter of δ ≈1/(n|F|) [15]. We leave it as an important open
question to apply our result to some of the existing constructions for random
probing security and further optimize their parameters.
1.2
Technical Overview
In the previous section, we showed how to simulate average probing leakage
of a single encoding (x1, x2) ←Enc(x) given random probing leakage from x.
To extend our analysis to complex circuits, we follow a standard gate-by-gate
approach. More precisely, we show that for each gate g in C there is an eﬃcient
gadget ˆg in ˆC (in fact, the overhead is a small constant), where average probing
leakage from ˆg can be simulated by random probing leakage from the inputs of g.
1 Notice that means that we need an amount of noise that is at least proportional to
|F|.

350
G. Brian et al.
The simulation and analysis of this transformation is signiﬁcantly more involved,
and in particular requires us to take care of internal wires that are not uniformly
distributed.2 For instance, this is the case for the multiplication gadget, where
internally we compute values x · y, where x and y are uniform over F.
Then, we also need to show that the gadgets we construct are composable
in a “safe” way, meaning that one cannot break the simulatability of a gadget
by looking at other parts of the circuit. This turns out to be quite involved, as
in particular the simulation must be careful with sampling the outputs of the
gadgets that are consistent with whatever an adversary has observed in the past.
To explain the main technical challenge, let us consider a concrete toy example
that highlights the technical diﬃculty of our analysis. Suppose that we are work-
ing in the ﬁnite ﬁeld F = F5 with 5 elements and that the leakage function α
leaks 0 with probability 1 and everything else with probability 0. Clearly, α is a
1
5-average probing function. We show two diﬀerent ways to construct a uniform
encoding of 4 ∈F5 which lead to two diﬀerent leakage distributions when we
consider leakage from the the whole circuit.
First, suppose the simplest way to generate an encoding (x1, x2)
$
←−Enc(4)
by sampling from the distribution Enc(4). Assuming that the leakage from the
encoding is (⊥, ⊥), then the possible encodings given the leakage are (1, 3), (2, 2),
(3, 1). Notice that they also all appear with the same probability of 1
3.
A second circuit that produces an encoding of 4 is through a sum of encod-
ings of 3 and 1. Suppose again that nothing in the circuit leaks, then the pos-
sible encodings for 3 are (4, 4), (2, 1), (1, 2) and the possible encodings for 1 are
(4, 2), (3, 3), (2, 4). By writing a table with all the possible sums, we can eliminate
some of the outcomes as they are impossible (since they contain 0, which leaks
with probability 1, and we assumed that nothing leaks); the remaining outcomes
are, again, (1, 3), (2, 2), (3, 1). However, this time (2, 2) appears slightly less often
as shown in the table below.
+
(4, 4)
(2, 1)
(1, 2)
(4, 2)
(3, 1)
(1, 3)
(0, 4)
(3, 3)
(2, 2)
(0, 4)
(4, 0)
(2, 4)
(1, 3)
(4, 0)
(3, 1)
This, in turn, means that the probability of the outcome being (2, 2) is 1
5, com-
pared to (1, 3) and (3, 1) which appear with probability 2
5. As can be seen from
the above example, the simulation of the leakage from a gadget depends on the
leakage that occured in other parts of the circuit. Notably, this is even true,
when nothing leaked, i.e., when the leakage was only ⊥. This is unlike in the
random probing model, where leaking ⊥gives freedom to the gadget simulator
and thus allows for much simpler composition results.
2 Recall that in the case of the encoding each of the xi is individual uniform over F.

From Random Probing to Noisy Leakages Without Field-Size Dependence
351
Approximation. In the above example, a naive simulation that does not take into
account leakage from other parts of the circuit fails because even if the output
distribution is uniform, it is not uniform anymore if we condition on some event
such as “something leaks from the circuit computation” or “nothing leaks from
the computation”. However, the above example also shows a way to deal with
such dependencies. Indeed, we can see that, even if the output distribution of the
gadget (i.e., the encoding of 4) is not uniform conditioned on the leakage, it is still
somewhat close to the simplest case in which we only consider leakage from the
encoding and nothing else. We exploit this observation to construct a simulator
that is able to approximate the output distribution of gadgets even when the
simulator knows nothing about the input or the rest of the circuit. Then, we can
follow a similar strategy as the one for simulating average probing leakage from
the simple encoding. Concretely, as previously, when the simulator receives some
additional information that allows to simulate the exact distributions, we can
compensate for the above approximation error such that the ﬁnal distribution
output by the simulator is identical to the real distribution, even conditioned on
the exact input encoding and leakage from the gadget.
In order to apply the above strategy, we need two additional properties from
our gadgets. The ﬁrst one is that all the wires on the gadget need to be uniform
when considered independently, so that we can apply the same idea as in the
simple encoding (x1, x2) ←Enc(x). Unfortunately, this is not possible due to
the presence of multiplication gates (recall that, when x, y are uniform over F,
the product xy takes the value 0 slightly more often); however, we are able to
show that the strategy still holds if we relax this requirement and only ask for
close-to-uniform wires. The second property, which we call output-independence,
states that the values on the wires of the gadget are (close-to-)uniform even when
the output of the gadget is known in full, and, additionally, the output of the
gadget is identically distributed to the one of a fresh encoding. Looking ahead,
this is needed so that the simulator is always able to approximate the output
distribution.
Fortunately, it turns out that the above two properties are not hard to
achieve. Indeed, the internal wires are close-to-uniform when all the input encod-
ings are re-randomized and, additionally, re-randomizing the output of the gad-
get allows to achieve the output-independence property. Furthermore, some of
the gadgets (i.e., addition, subtraction) already satisfy the output-independence
property due to the properties of Enc (i.e., Enc(x) + Enc(y) is identically dis-
tributed to Enc(x + y)).
Gadget Simulators. Now that we established the main strategy to construct the
gadgets and the basic idea to simulate their leakage, we will provide the high-
level idea of the composition. We start by describing the security guarantee that
the gadget simulator has to satisfy and which will suﬃce for composition. For
simplicity assume that the gate g only has 1 input and 1 output. A ﬁrst attempt
to deﬁne the gadget simulator Simg is to require for any input encoding x to the
gadget g that the following holds:

352
G. Brian et al.
Λ
?≡Simg (ρ(x)) ,
where Λ is the random variable of the average-probing leakage from the gadget
g on input x and x ∈F is the input value on the unmasked circuit. Unfortu-
nately, as discussed above, this is not suﬃcient, because the simulator needs to
receive some additional information from the environment to produce the output
encoding of the gadget as well:3
Realg(x) ≡Simg (ρ(x), info) ,
where Realg(x) = (Λ, y) is the joint distribution of the real leakage and the real
output upon input x. Moreover, info denotes some auxiliary information that we
will explain in a moment.
Unfortunately, the input ρ(x) does not suﬃce for the gadget simulator to
produce Realg(x) and hence we slightly strengthen the power of the simulator
by giving it as input Blindρ(x)(x) which outputs x if ρ(x) = x and outputs ⊥
otherwise. This allows us to let the simulator play “safe” and make it output
everywhere ⊥when ρ(x) = ⊥and compensate for this “overestimation” when
getting x as input. Hence, we get:
Realg (x) ≡Simg

Blindρ(x) (x) , info

,
where we explain the meaning of info next. Observe that the simulator needs to
correctly sample y as discussed in the previous paragraph. However, this cannot
be done if ρ(x) = ⊥. Looking ahead, the ﬁnal observation here is that y is only
needed by the simulator of the next gadget if the random probing of the output
value y = g(x) reveals y. When this is the case, we can give y to the simulator,
which can then approximate the correct distribution y as we described above; the
simulator will then compensate for this approximation error in the case in which
it receives x in full. Hence, the ﬁnal notion of a composable gadget simulator is
given by:
(Λ, Blindy?(y)) ≡Simg

Blindρ(x) (x) , y?

,
where (Λ, y) = Realg (x), y? = ρ(y) denotes the outcome of random probing
y = g(x), and the above holds for all x and all y = g(x). This notion states that
the above simulator outputs a leakage distribution Λ and a “blinded” output
distribution y that is identical to the real distribution even when considered
jointly.
Sadly, this approach only works when all the inputs of the gate are given
to the simulator, which, for gates with fan-in 2, causes the leakage parameter
to be squared, i.e., δ ≈ε2 when starting from ϵ-random probing. We leave the
problem of ﬁlling this gap open for future work.
3 Looking ahead, this information is needed for composition in order to produce a
consistent simulation.

From Random Probing to Noisy Leakages Without Field-Size Dependence
353
Composition of Gadget Simulators. Now that we established the correct notion
for the simulatable gadgets, we want to apply it to prove simulatability of the
whole circuit. We plan to do so by hybrid argument. Namely, we deﬁne as many
hybrid experiments as there are gates in the circuit, and we replace the real gad-
gets with the simulated gadgets one by one; then, we show that two consecutive
hybrids are identically distributed, by a reduction to the simulatability of the
gadgets. More in detail, the reduction would ﬁrst run the real circuit until the
challenge gadget, then receives some either real or simulated leakage/output pair
and ﬁnally continues with the simulated gadgets. This is enabled by the above
notion of simulatability, which states that the distribution of the output does
not change when moving from the real to the simulated gadget. In turns, this
means that we can completely replace the real gadget with the corresponding
simulator and use the output of the simulator to feed the subsequent simulators
in the circuit.
Structure of the Paper. We state formally all the necessary notions for the gad-
gets in Sect. 3, in which we also show how to achieve such notions. Then, in
Sect. 4 we state the simulatability notions for circuits, and we show how to use
the simulatable gadgets to achieve the simulatable circuit. Finally, we conclude
in Sect. 5 and pose some open problems for future research.
2
Preliminaries
Notation. For a number n ∈N, we denote by [n] the set {1, . . . , n}. We denote
sets by uppercase calligraphic letters A, B, X, Y, . . . and random variables by
bold letters A, B, x, y, . . .; similarly, we use bold letters for randomized functions,
like f, g, α, ρ. For a set X, we denote by x
$
←−X the fact that x is uniformly
sampled from X. For two random variables X, Y over the same set X, the
statistical distance between X and Y is denoted as Δ(X, Y) and deﬁned as
Δ(X, Y) := 1
2

x∈X
|Pr [X = x] −Pr [Y = x]| .
Whenever Δ(X, Y) = 0, we say that X and Y are identically distributed, and
we denote this fact by writing X ≡Y. We denote by d(X) := Δ(X, U) the
distance between X and the uniform random variable U over X. In general, we
will refer to X as uniform if d(X) = 0, and, for γ ∈[0, 1], as γ-close-to-uniform
if d(X) ≤γ.
For a function f : X →Y and a vector x = (x1, . . . , xn) ∈X n, we overload
the notation and write f(x) for the function (x1, . . . , xn) 
→(f(x1), . . . , f(xn));
this applies to randomized functions f as well. Furthermore, for x ∈(X ∪{⊥})n,
we overload the notation of ⊥as well and write x = ⊥if x = (⊥, . . . , ⊥).
Circuits. We model computation as an arithmetic circuit C carrying values from
an (arbitrary) ﬁnite ﬁeld F on their wires and using the following gates to carry
out computation in F:

354
G. Brian et al.
– ADD, SUB, MUL, which compute, respectively, the sum, the diﬀerence and the
product in F of their inputs,
– IN, which has no input and models either some constant or the external input
to the circuit,
– OUT, which has one input and no output, and models the output produced
by the circuit,
– RND, which has no input and produces a uniformly random and independent
element of F,
– and CPY, which takes as input a single value and outputs two copies.
We say that the gates ADD, SUB, MUL, CPY are functional gadgets, in that they
compute a function (respectively, (x, y) 
→x+y, (x, y) 
→x−y, (x, y) 
→xy, x 
→
(x, x)). Furthermore, we view the circuit as a directed acyclic graph C = (G, W)
in which
– G is the set of the gates of the circuit, seen as a set of nodes of the graph,
– W is the set of the wires of the circuit, seen as a set of edges of the graph.
We also assume that C is connected (otherwise, it suﬃces to look at each con-
nected component separately, since they act independently) and that G is topo-
logically sorted. Namely, for every two gates gi, gj ∈G with i < j, then gi comes
before gj. Intuitively, this means that gj is not needed to compute gi.
A circuit C models computation on some (possibly randomized) input x ∈
Fm∗and produces some output y ∈Fn∗; we denote this by writing y ←C(x). The
numbers m∗and n∗are respectively the fan-in and the fan-out of the circuit,
and they correspond respectively to the number of input gates and the number
of output gates of C. Sometimes, we need more detail about the computation of
the circuit. In this case, we denote by W(x) the list of all the values that the
wires of the circuit take upon input x.
Circuit Compiler. A circuit compiler Γ takes as input the original circuit C and
produces a new circuit C = Γ(C). Unless stated otherwise, we denote by regular
letters everything that belongs to the original circuit, like C, x, g ∈G, w ∈W,
and by letters with hats everything that belongs to the transformed circuit, like
C, x, g ∈G, w ∈
W.
The compiler Γ is associated with an encoding scheme Enc : F →Fℓ, Dec :
Fℓ→F such that, for all x ∈F, Dec(Enc(x)) = x (or, more formally, this happens
with probability 1 over the randomness of the encoding). Then, the wires of the
original circuit C are represented in the transformed circuit C as wire bundles
that carry the value of the wire in encoded form. The input x ∈Fm∗to C is
then transformed into the encoded input Enc(x) to C. The main challenge to
compile C to C is to describe how to transform the gates. For each gate g ∈G,
the compiler constructs a sub-circuit g, the so-called gadget, that represents the
computation of g in C and carries out the output of g in encoded form. We
emphasize that the computation in the gadgets use the standard gates deﬁned
in the previous section. Notice also that, for simplicity, we focus in this work on

From Random Probing to Noisy Leakages Without Field-Size Dependence
355
stateless circuits, i.e., the circuits do not have memory gates. Hence, we require
that compiled circuits C receive their inputs in encoded form.
In what follows, we partition the wires of every gadget g into three disjoint
subsets:
– the input wires are the wires that carry the input encoding x;
– the output wires are the wires that carry the output encoding y = g(x);
– all the other wires belong to the set of the internal wires, which carry the
computation inside g.
Notice that, whenever a gadget g1 is connected to g2, the wires from g1 to g2
are both input wires for g2 and output wires for g1. Since every value that is
output by a gadget is then input into another gadget, we can ignore the input
wires and consider every gadget to be just its internal and output wires.
Finally, we now establish some notation that is useful when reasoning about
gadgets. For a gadget g, we denote by Ing the set of the possible inputs and by
Outg(x) the set of the possible outputs upon input x.
Leakage. A leakage function is a (possibly randomized) function f : F →Ω for
some set Ω. As discussed in detail in the introduction, in this work we focus
on probing functions, and we use two probing models. Let F be a ﬁnite ﬁeld. A
randomized function ϕ : F →F ∪{⊥} is called a (wire) probing function (over
the ﬁeld F) if for every x ∈F we have that ϕ(x) is equal either to x or to ⊥,
where ⊥is a special symbol that denotes that the probing function failed to
probe the wire. For ε ∈(0, 1), such a function is called:
– ε-random if for every x ∈F, Pr [ϕ(x) = x] = ε, and
– ε-average if for the uniform random variable x over F, Pr [ϕ(x) = x] = ε.
In what follows, we use the letter ρ to denote random probing and the letter α
to denote average probing.
Sometimes we need to keep or discard values depending on the outcome of a
probing function. Towards this, for any x ∈F ∪{⊥} and any x ∈Fℓ, we deﬁne
the function
Blindx(x) :=

x
if x ∈F,
⊥
if x = ⊥.
We extend Blindx to a function Fn →Fℓn in the usual way, i.e., by applying it
to every component of x = (x1, . . . , xn) and x = (
x1, . . . , 
xn):
Blindx(x) := (Blindx1 (
x1) , . . . , Blindxn (
xn)) .
Furthermore, we consider an all-or-nothing function Blind∗
x deﬁned for every
x ∈(F ∪{⊥})n such that
Blind∗
x(x) :=

x
if x ∈Fn,
⊥
otherwise.

356
G. Brian et al.
2.1
Simple Facts
In this section we list some results that we are going to use later in this work.
First of all, we state two general fact about products of uniform distributions.
Lemma 1. Let F be a ﬁeld and let x, y be two independent and uniform random
variables over F. Then, the product xy is
1
|F|-close to uniform.
Lemma 2 ([22]). Let G be a group x, y be two independent random variables
over G. Then,
d(x + y) ≤2d(x)d(y).
A consequence of the above is the following.
Lemma 3. Let γ ∈
	
0, 1
2

be a parameter, let F be a ﬁeld and let x, y be two
independent and γ-close-to-uniform distributions over F. Then, x+y is γ-close-
to-uniform.
The following lemma states that, informally, if a distribution over a set of
values is “uniform enough”, then it is always possible that nothing leaks even in
the stronger model of average probing.
Lemma 4. Let γ ∈
	
0, 1
2

, δ ∈[0, 1] be parameters. Let x = (x1, . . . , xk) be a
distribution over Fk and assume that there exist k′ values xi1, . . . , xi′
k that are
γ-close to uniform and that all the other k −k′ values xi are uniform. Finally,
let α be any δ-average-probing function. Then,
Pr [α(x) = ⊥] ≥1 −(k + k′γ|F|) δ
The proof of the above facts can be found in the full version [9].
3
Composable Gadgets Against Average Probing
In this section, we design the gadgets that we are using in our circuit compiler.
In Sect. 4 we will deﬁne a circuit simulator to prove that, intuitively, our com-
piler transforms random-probing-resilient circuits into average-probing-resilient
circuits. To do so, the simulator only receives as input the random probing leak-
age ρ(W(x)) from the original circuit C. Our strategy is to construct gadgets in
a composable way so that we can reduce the simulatability of the circuit to the
simulatability of every gadget. In particular, the circuit simulator will forward
the random probing leakage (or part of it) to the gadget simulator, which will
then produce leakage from the wires of the gadgets. The main diﬃculty here is
that, for every gadget, the distribution of the values on the wires depends on the
distribution of the input values, and such distribution is not always the same if
we condition on all the leakage that happened before the gadget. However, if we
allow the gadget simulator to also receive, when available, the encoding of the

From Random Probing to Noisy Leakages Without Field-Size Dependence
357
input, then the simulation can be accurate. Intuitively, the notion of simulata-
bilty should look like
∀x ∈Fℓm : Λ ≡Simg

Blind∗
ρ(x) (x)

,
where Λ is the leakage from the wires of the real gadget and x = Dec(x). Looking
forward, when simulating two consecutive gadgets, the circuit simulator has no
way to generate the input to the second gadget simulator, since it does not come
from the real circuit. This means that every simulator is required to simulate
the output of the gadget as well, unless it is not needed (i.e., when the random
probing ρ(y) of the output value y results in ⊥). The following deﬁnition captures
exactly this property.
Deﬁnition 1 (Gadget simulatability). Let ε, δ ∈[0, 1], ℓ∈N be parameters.
Let g be a functional gate with fan-in m and fan-out n. Let g be the corresponding
gadget for an encoding of size ℓ. We say that g is ε-random to δ-average leakage-
simulatable if for every δ-average probing function α there exists a simulator
Simg such that
∀x ∈Fℓm : Realg (x) ≡Simg

Blind∗
ρ(x) (x) , y

and
∀x ∈Fℓm : (Λ, ⊥) ≡Simg

Blind∗
ρ(x) (x) , ⊥

.
In the above, x = Dec(x), y = g(x), ρ is the ε-random probing function and
(Λ, y) = Realg is a sample from the real experiment, which computes y ≡g(x),
obtains the average-probing leakage Λ from the wires and then outputs (Λ, y).
Additional Properties. Now that we established the notion, we want to show that
we are actually able to achieve it. Intuitively, we should construct every gadget
and then prove that they meet the above deﬁnitions; however, the proofs are
quite long and very similar. Instead, we proceed the other way around: ﬁrst, we
show a general technique to construct a simulator, and then we show that such
general technique can be applied to simulate all the gadgets that we construct. In
this way, we only have a general proof for the simulator and then one corollary for
every gadget. However, to proceed in this way, we need two additional properties
from the gadgets.
The ﬁrst property states, informally, that every wire on the gadget carries a
close-to-uniform value when considered independently of the rest of the gadget.
Deﬁnition 2 (Close-to-uniform gadget). Let g be any gate and let g be the
corresponding gadget. Let k be the number of wires in g and let γ ∈
	
0, 1
2

, k′ ∈N
be parameters such that k′ ≤k. Furthermore, let (w1, . . . , wk) be the random
variable of the values on the wires of g. We say that g is a (k, k′, γ)-close-to-
uniform gadget if w1, . . . , wk are all γ-close-to-uniform and, additionally, there
are k −k′ indices i ∈[k] such that wi is uniform. If k′ = 0 (i.e., the gadget does
not contain non-uniform wires), we simply say that the gadget is k-uniform.

358
G. Brian et al.
In the following corollary, which is a direct consequence of Lemma 4, we show
that, intuitively, close-to-uniform gadgets have nice “hiding” properties.
Corollary 1. Let δ ∈(0, 1), γ ∈
	
0, 1
2

, k, k′, ℓ, m ∈N be parameters such that
k′ ≤k and ℓis the size of the encoding. Let g be a functional gate with fan-in
m, and let g be the corresponding gadget for an encoding of size ℓ. Assume that
g is (k, k′, γ)-close-to-uniform. Then, for all x ∈Fℓm and all δ-average probing
functions α,
Pr [Λ = ⊥] ≥1 −kδ −k′γδ|F|,
where Λ := Leakg(α, x) is the distribution of the leakage from the wires of g upon
input x.
The second property states, informally, that every internal wire of the gadget
carries a value that, when considered independently of the other internal wires,
is also independent of the output of the gadget.
Deﬁnition 3 (Output independence). Let g be any gate with fan-out n and
let g be the corresponding gadget for an encoding of size ℓ∈N. Let k ∈N be
the number of wires in g and let n ∈N be the fan-out of g. Furthermore, let
(w1, . . . , wk−ℓn) be the random variable of the values on the internal wires of g
and let y be the random variable of the values on the output wires. We say that
g is output-independent if
∀i ∈[k −ℓn], ∀w ∈F : Pr [wi = w | y = y] = Pr [wi = w]
and, additionally,
y ≡Enc(Dec(y)).
The following lemma shows a useful lower bound on the distribution of any non-
leaking output of close-to-uniform gadgets with output-independence. Roughly
speaking, this means that, when the gadget does not leak anything (i.e., Λ = ⊥),
it is still possible to approximate from below the output distribution of the
gadget with a distribution that does not depend on the input value x, namely,
the distribution Enc(y)|α(Enc(y)) = ⊥.
Lemma 5. Let γ ∈
	
0, 1
2

, δ ∈(0, 1), k, k′, ℓ, m, n ∈N be parameters such that
k′ ≤k and (k + k′γ|F|)δ < 1. Let g be any gate with fan-in m and fan-out n
and let g be the corresponding gadget for an encoding of size ℓ. Assume that g
is (k, k′, γ)-close-to-uniform and output-independent. Then, for all x ∈Fℓm and
all y ∈Outg(x),
Pr [Enc(y) = y | α(Enc(y)) = ⊥] ≤Pr [Realg(x) = (⊥, y)]
1 −(k + k′γ|F|)δ
,
(1)
where y = Dec(y).
The proof of this fact can be found in the full version [9].

From Random Probing to Noisy Leakages Without Field-Size Dependence
359
The Gadget Simulator. Now we are ready to deﬁne the actual gadget simula-
tor. Recall that the simulator receives two inputs which are possibly “blinded”,
namely the input of the gadget x and the output of the original gate y. In what
follows, we assume that, whenever y ̸= ⊥, y ∈Fn or, in other words, y is given
in full to the simulator;4 it is easy to extend the simulator and the analysis to
the general case.
For a gate g with fan-in m and fan-out n and its respective gadget g for an
encoding of size ℓ, we consider the following simulator Simg.
– Upon input (⊥, ⊥), simply output (⊥, ⊥).
– Upon input (⊥, y), sample y with probability
Pr [Enc(y) = y | α(Enc(y)) = ⊥]
and output (⊥, y).
– Upon input (x, ⊥), sample Λ ̸= ⊥with probability
1
εm Pr [Λ = Λ] ,
where Λ is the leakage performed by the real experiment Realg, or set Λ = ⊥
with probability
1
εm Pr [Λ = ⊥] −1 −εm
εm
.
Then, output (Λ, ⊥).
– Upon input (x, y), sample (Λ, y) for Λ ̸= ⊥with probability
1
εm Pr [Realg(x) = (Λ, y)]
and sample (⊥, y) with probability
1
εm Pr [Realg(x) = (⊥, y)] −1 −εm
εm
Pr [Enc(y) = y | α(Enc(y)) = ⊥] .
Finally, output the sampled values.
The remainder of the section is dedicated to the proof of the following theo-
rem stating that, informally, the output of the simulator is identically distributed
to the output of the real experiment.
Theorem 1. Let γ ∈
	
0, 1
2

, ε, δ ∈(0, 1), k, k′, ℓ, m, n ∈N be parameters such
that k′ ≤k and
(k + k′γ|F|)δ < εm.
Let g be a functional gate with fan-in m and fan-out n and let g be the correspond-
ing gadget for an encoding of size ℓ. Assume that g is (k, k′, γ)-close-to-uniform
and output-independent. Then, the above simulator is such that
∀x ∈Fℓm : Realg (x) ≡Simg

Blind∗
ρ(x) (x) , y

4 Notice that the only gate with n > 1 is the copy gate, for which all the components
of y are the same.

360
G. Brian et al.
and
∀x ∈Fℓm : (Λ, ⊥) ≡Simg

Blind∗
ρ(x) (x) , ⊥

.
In the above, x = Dec(x), y = g(x), ρ is the ε-random probing function and
(Λ, y) = Realg is a sample from the real experiment, which computes y ≡g(x),
obtains the average-probing leakage Λ from the wires and then outputs (Λ, y).
Proof. First of all, we need to show that the simulator is well-deﬁned. Namely,
we need to show that the output of the simulator is actually a distribution,
meaning that all the probabilities are non-negative and sum up to 1. This is
trivial when the simulator receives (⊥, ⊥) or (⊥, y) as input, therefore, in what
follows, we focus on the case in which the simulator actually receives x.
– When the simulator receives (x, ⊥) as input, it samples Λ and outputs (Λ, ⊥).
All the probabilities of the simulator outputting Λ ̸= ⊥are trivially non-
negative. When summing all of them, we get that the probability of outputting
any Λ ̸= ⊥is
1
εm Pr [Λ ̸= ⊥] .
Since g is close-to-uniform, we can apply Corollary 1 to obtain that
1
εm Pr [Λ ̸= ⊥] ≤1
εm (k + k′γ|F|)δ < 1,
(2)
where the last inequality holds by the hypothesis on the parameters. On the
other side, the simulator outputs Λ = ⊥with probability
1
εm Pr [Λ = ⊥] −1 −εm
εm
= 1 −1
εm Pr [Λ ̸= ⊥] > 0,
where the last inequality follows from Eq. (2). It follows that the probabilities
are non-negative and that they sum up to 1.
– When the simulator receives (x, y) as input, the proof is very similar to the
above. Indeed, the simulator samples (Λ, y) for Λ ̸= ⊥always with non-
negative probability; on the other side, the probability of sampling (⊥, y) is
non-negative if and only if
Pr [Realg(x) = (⊥, y)] −(1 −εm) Pr [Enc(y) = y | α(Enc(y)) = ⊥] ≥0
or, by rearranging the terms, if and only if
Pr [Enc(y) = y | α(Enc(y)) = ⊥] ≤Pr [Realg(x) = (⊥, y)]
1 −εm
.
(3)
However, since g is close-to-uniform and output-independent by hypothesis,
we can apply Lemma 5, which gives
Pr [Enc(y) = y | α(Enc(y)) = ⊥] ≤Pr [Realg(x) = (⊥, y)]
1 −(k + k′γ|F|)δ
.
Then, Eq. (3) follows from the hypothesis (k + k′γ|F|)δ < εm. Finally, it is
easy to see that all the terms sum up to 1.

From Random Probing to Noisy Leakages Without Field-Size Dependence
361
Now it remains to show that the simulator perfectly simulates the real distri-
bution. We start the analysis of the simulator from the simple case of Λ ̸= ⊥.
Notice that Simg only outputs Λ ̸= ⊥if it receives x as input (otherwise, the
simulator plays safe and outputs ⊥). Therefore,
Pr

Simg

Blind∗
ρ(x) (x) , y

= (Λ, y)

= Pr

Blind∗
ρ(x) (x) = x

Pr [Simg (x, y) = (Λ, y)]
(4)
= Pr [ρ(x) = x] Pr [Simg (x, y) = (Λ, y)]
(5)
= εm Pr [Simg (x, y) = (Λ, y)]
(6)
= Pr [Realg (x) = (Λ, y)] ,
(7)
where Λ is the leakage produced by the real experiment Realg. In the above
derivation,
– Equation (4) follows by deﬁnition of conditional probability;
– Equation (5) holds because Blind∗
ρ(x) (x) = x if and only if ρ(x) = x;
– Equation (6) follows by deﬁnition of random probing and from the fact that
x ∈Fm;
– and ﬁnally, Eq. (7) follows by how we deﬁned the simulator to behave upon
input (x, y).
The proof for the case in which the simulator does not get y is analogous, there-
fore we now only focus on the case Λ = ⊥. This case is a bit more involved,
because Simg may output Λ = ⊥both when the input x is given and when the
simulator receives ⊥. Namely,
Pr

Simg

Blind∗
ρ(x) (x) , y

= (Λ, y)

= Pr

Blind∗
ρ(x) (x) = x

Pr [Simg (x, y) = (⊥, y)]
+ Pr

Blind∗
ρ(x) (x) = ⊥

Pr [Simg (⊥, y) = (⊥, y)]
(8)
= Pr [ρ(x) = x] Pr [Simg (x, y) = (⊥, y)]
+ Pr [ρ(x) = ⊥] Pr [Simg (⊥, y) = (⊥, y)]
(9)
= εm Pr [Simg (x, y) = (⊥, y)]
+ (1 −εm) Pr [Simg (⊥, y) = (⊥, y)]
(10)
= Pr [Realg(x) = (⊥, y)] −(1 −εm) Pr [Enc(y) = y | α(Enc(y)) = ⊥]
+ (1 −εm) Pr [Enc(y) = y | α(Enc(y)) = ⊥]
(11)
= Pr [Realg(x) = (⊥, y)] .
(12)
In the above derivation,
– Equations (8) to (10) follow for the same reasoning as in Eqs. (4) to (6);
– Equation (11) follows by how we deﬁned the simulator to behave upon input
(x, y);

362
G. Brian et al.
– and ﬁnally, Eq. (12) follows by simplifying the sum and subtraction of the
same term.
This concludes the proof.
⊓⊔
Now that we proved the main result of this section, we deﬁne the gadgets
that we are going to use in the ﬁnal construction.
3.1
Basic Arithmetic Gadgets

x11
$

x12

x21
$

x22
⊕
□
⊖
⊕
□
⊖
⊕
y1
Fig. 1. Scheme for the 
ADD gadget.
We start by constructing the 
ADD gadget, depicted in Fig. 1 and consisting of 2
RND gates, 2 CPY gates, 4 ADD gates and 2 SUB gates, for a total of 10 gates.
Furthermore, the 
ADD gadget consists of 12 wires. The random gates output
uniform random values r1 and r2, which are then copied and used to refresh the
input values. Then, the refreshed values are summed component-wise in order
to obtain y1, y2. Overall, without taking into account wires carrying the same
value, the wires in the gadget carry the following values:
r1, r2,
(From the random gates)

x11 + r1, 
x12 −r1,
(Refreshing of the ﬁrst input)

x21 + r2, 
x22 −r2,
(Refreshing of the second input)

x11 + r1 + 
x21 + r2, 
x12 −r1 + 
x22 −r2
(Output encoding)
It is easy to see that every one of the above values is uniformly distributed
when taken independently. Finally, ADD is a deterministic gate with fan-in 2
and fan-out 1, therefore it is a functional gate.
From the above, 
ADD is a 12-uniform gadget for a deterministic functional
gate. We now show that the gadget is output-independent. Indeed, we have that
y1 = 
x11 + r1 + 
x21 + r2
and
y2 = 
x12 −r1 + 
x22 −r2,

From Random Probing to Noisy Leakages Without Field-Size Dependence
363
which means that, by uniformity of r1 and r2, the output is identically dis-
tributed to a fresh encoding. Furthermore, for the internal wires we have that,
for every r ∈F, every x ∈F4, and every y ∈Out
ADD(x),
Pr [r1 = r | y = y] = Pr

r1 = r


x11 + r1 + 
x21 + r2 = y1

x12 −r1 + 
x22 −r2 = y2

= Pr [r1 = r | r1 = c1 −r2]
= Pr [r2 = c1 −r]
= Pr [r1 = r] ,
where c1 = y1 −
x11 −
x21, the ﬁrst equality follows from making y explicit,
the second equality follows by rearranging the terms and the fact that y ∈
Out
ADD(x), the third equality follows by replacing r1 with its value given by the
condition, and the last equality follows because both r1, r2 are uniform samples
from F. A similar reasoning can be applied to the values carried by all the other
internal wires, thus proving output-independence.
Now that we proved that the gadget is 12-uniform and output-independent,
we can apply Theorem 1 to obtain the following.
Corollary 2. Let ε, δ ∈(0, 1) be parameters such that
12δ < ε2.
Then, 
ADD is ε-random to δ-average simulatable.

x11
$

x12

x21
$

x22
⊕
□
⊖
⊕
□
⊖
⊖
y1
Fig. 2. Scheme for the 
SUB gadget.
By replacing the last two ADD gates with SUB gates in 
ADD, we obtain
the new gadget 
SUB, depicted in Fig. 2, which computes SUB. The analysis is
completely analogous to the one for 
SUB, hence we have the following.
Corollary 3. Let ε, δ ∈(0, 1) be parameters such that
12δ < ε2.
Then, 
SUB is ε-random to δ-average simulatable.

364
G. Brian et al.

x11
$

x12

x21
$

x22
⊕
□
⊖
⊕
□
⊖
□
□
□
⊗
⊕
⊗
⊕
y1
$
□
□
⊗
⊖
⊗
⊕
y2
Fig. 3. Scheme for the 
MUL gadget. To make the diagram easier to understand, the
wires carrying an encoding of x1 are marked in red, the wires carrying an encoding
of x2 are marked in green, and the wires after the multiplication are marked in blue.
(Color ﬁgure online)
3.2
Multiplication Gadget
The 
MUL gadget, depicted in Fig. 3, is probably the most complex gadget due
to the properties of multiplication. Indeed, it is the only non-uniform gadget,
consisting of 3 RND gates, 7 CPY gates, 5 ADD gates, 3 SUB gates, and 4 MUL
gates, for a total of 22 gates. Furthermore, the 
MUL gadget consists of 29 wires.
The ﬁrst two random gates output uniform random values r1 and r2, which are
then copied and used to refresh the input values. Then, the refreshed values
are (copied and) multiplied so to obtain the four terms of the product of two
binomials:
(a1 + a2) (b1 + b2) = a1b1 + a1b2 + a2b1 + a2b2.
Finally, the partial sums are computed, in order to have encodings of only two
elements, and then a third random gate is used to refresh the output encoding.
Overall, without taking into account wires carrying the same value, the wires in
the gadget carry the following values:

From Random Probing to Noisy Leakages Without Field-Size Dependence
365
r1, r2, r3
(From the random gates)

x11 + r1, 
x12 −r1,
(Refreshing of the ﬁrst input)

x21 + r2, 
x22 −r2,
(Refreshing of the second input)
(
x12 −r1) (
x21 + r2) ,
(First column of multiplications)
(
x11 + r1) (
x21 + r2)
(
x12 −r1) (
x22 −r2) ,
(Second column of multiplications)
(
x11 + r1) (
x22 −r2)
(
x12 −r1) (
x21 + r2) + r3,
(First column rerandomized)
(
x11 + r1) (
x21 + r2) −r3
(
x12 −r1) (
x21 + r2) + r3
(First output component)
+ (
x12 −r1) (
x22 −r2)
(
x11 + r1) (
x21 + r2) −r3
(Second output component)
+ (
x11 + r1) (
x22 −r2) .
It is easy to see that all the values on the red and green wires are uniform when
considered independently, and so are the output wires and the wires carrying
r3. The only wires that are not uniform are the outputs of the four MUL gates.
However, by Lemma 1, the outputs of the MUL gates are
1
|F|-close-to-uniform.
Finally, a reasoning similar to the one in Sect. 3.1 shows that multiplication
gadgets are also output-independent. This suﬃces to apply Theorem 1 with
parameters k = 29, k′ = 6 and γ =
1
|F|, and obtain the following result.
Corollary 4. Let ε, δ ∈(0, 1) be parameters such that

29 + 6 · 1
|F| · |F|

δ = 35δ < ε2.
Then, 
MUL is ε-random to δ-average simulatable.
3.3
Copy Gadget
The last functional gadget is the 
CPY gadget, depicted in Fig. 4, which is fairly
simple. It consists of 3 RND gates, 5 CPY gates, 3 ADD gates and 3 SUB gates,
for a total of 14 gates. Furthermore, the 
CPY gadget consists of 19 wires. There
are no arithmetic operations except for the ones needed to refresh the encodings;
on the other hand, the encodings are refreshed both on the input side, to ensure
that the gadget is uniform, and on the output side, to ensure that the gadget is
output-independent.
By applying Theorem 1, we obtain the following.
Corollary 5. Let ε, δ ∈(0, 1) be parameters such that
19δ < ε2.
Then, 
CPY is ε-random to δ-average simulatable.

366
G. Brian et al.
x1
⊕
□
⊕
y11
$
□
$
□
x2
⊖
□
⊖
y12
⊕
y21
$
□
Fig. 4. Scheme for the 
CPY gadget.
3.4
Putting Everything Together
The only missing gadgets are the ones for IN, OUT, RND. However, OUT only has
input wires, therefore the corresponding gadget would be empty. On the other
hand, IN and RND are very similar, therefore we focus on IN and then explain
later the diﬀerences with RND.
Let g0 be any input gate and let g1 be the gate that receives the input from
g0; ﬁnally, let w = (g0, g1) be the wire connecting the two gates. By assuming
a leak-free encoder before the circuit, the encoding that we would place on the
wire bundle w is already a fresh encoding or, in other words, the value on every
wire of the bundle is uniformly distributed when considered independently. This
actually means two things:
– there is no need to re-randomize the values directly coming from the input in
gadget g1;
– if we consider g0 ∪w ∪g1, we are only adding two uniform wires.
By applying the above, we can remove the re-randomization component (thus
removing 3 wires) and consider the input wires as part of the gadget instead
(thus adding 2 wires). As an example, Fig. 5 is what the 
ADD gadget looks like
when we apply the above strategy.
Corollary 6. Let k, k′ ∈N, γ ∈
	
0, 1
2

, ε, δ ∈(0, 1) be parameters such that
(k + k′γ|F|) δ ≤ε2
and assume that g is a (k, k′, γ)-close-to-uniform and output-independent gad-
get. Then, the above operation of merging the input wires and removing the
re-randomization component produces a new gadget g′ that is (k −1, k′, γ)-close-
to-uniform and output-independent.

From Random Probing to Noisy Leakages Without Field-Size Dependence
367

x11
x1

x12

x21
$

x22
⊕
□
⊖
⊕
y1
Fig. 5. Scheme for the 
ADD gadget, in which we replaced the rerandomizing component
with the input wires; the box represents the leak-free encoding circuit that takes as
input x1 and outputs the fresh encoding (
x11, 
x12).
Proof. Notice that the above operation removes three uniform wires (namely,
the ones from the random gate that are used to re-randomize the encoding) and
adds two uniform wires (namely, the ones carrying the fresh encoding). Hence,
this operation converts a (k, k′, γ)-close-to-uniform gadget into a (k −1, k′, γ)-
close-to-uniform gadget. Finally, this operation does not modify any other wire,
and it is easy to see that the output-independence property is preserved.
⊓⊔
Since we addressed all gadgets, we can have the following general corollary
that handles all of them.
Corollary 7. Let ε, δ ∈(0, 1) be parameters such that
35δ ≤ε2.
Then, all the gadgets deﬁned so far are ε-random to δ-average simulatable.
4
The Circuit Compiler
The circuit compiler simply replaces every wire with the respective wire bundle
and every gate with the respective gadget. Our goal is to achieve the following
deﬁnition.
Deﬁnition 4 (Simulatability of circuits). Let C be a circuit with fan-in m∗
and fan-out n∗. Let C be the corresponding transformed circuit. Let Φ, Ψ be two
families of (possibly randomized) functions. Finally, let ℓ∈N be the size of the
encoding. We say that C is Φ-to-Ψ-simulatable (from C) if there exists a simulator
SimC such that for every x∗∈Fm∗input to C and every function ψ ∈Ψ there
exists a function ϕ ∈Φ:
LeakC (Enc(x∗)) ≡SimC (ϕ (W(x∗))) .
(13)
In the above, W(x∗) is the distribution of the values on the wires of the original
circuit C upon input x∗.
In what follows, we show the following.

368
G. Brian et al.
Theorem 2. Let ε, δ ∈(0, 1) be parameters such that 35δ < ε2. Let C be a
circuit and let C be the circuit transformed in the following way:
– for every functional gate g ∈C, we place the corresponding gadget, as
described in Sect. 3, in C;
– for every wire w ∈C, we place the corresponding wire bundle in C, consisting
of 2 wires;
– if w = (g1, g2), the corresponding wire bundle w will connect g1 to g2.
Then, the transformed circuit C is ε-random to δ-average simulatable.
The proof proceeds by hybrid argument. Namely, let k∗be the number of
functional gates in C. Then, the real experiment LeakC(Enc(x∗)) can be rewritten
as follows.
1. Sample 
x∗= Enc(x∗).
2. For every j ∈[k∗], compute Λj, yj as follows.
(a) For every input bundle of gadget gj that comes from an input of the
circuit, place the corresponding value taken from the vector 
x∗.
(b) For every input bundle of gadget gj that comes from a random gate of
the circuit, sample uniform r ∈F and place Enc(r) on the wires.
(c) Since C is topologically sorted, every other input bundle of gadget gj
already has a value, which has been computed in a previous iteration as

yj′ for some j′ < j.
(d) Let 
Wj ∈Fkj be the list of values on all the kj wires of gj.
(e) The leakage Λj is set to be Λj := α( 
Wj), while the output yj is taken
from the output values stored in 
Wj.
3. Output Λ = Λ1|| . . . ||Λk∗.
The above experiment, which we denote as Hybk∗+1(x∗), only diﬀers from the
original experiment LeakC(Enc(x∗)) in when the leakage occurs. Namely, in LeakC
ﬁrst the circuit is computed entirely and then the leakage is computed, while
Hybk∗+1 computes the leakage immediately after the values on the wires are
available. Therefore,
LeakC(Enc(x∗)) ≡Hybk∗+1(x∗).
Now we deﬁne, for i ∈[k∗], the following hybrid experiment Hybi(x∗).
1. Sample 
x∗= Enc(x∗) and 
x∗
? = Blindρ(x∗)(
x∗).
2. For every j ∈[k∗], compute Λj, yj as follows.
– If j < i, do the following.
(a) For every input bundle of gadget gj that comes from an input of the
circuit, place the corresponding value taken from the vector 
x∗.
(b) For every input bundle of gadget gj that comes from a random gate
of the circuit, sample uniform r ∈F and place Enc(r) on the wires.

From Random Probing to Noisy Leakages Without Field-Size Dependence
369
(c) Since C is topologically sorted, every other input bundle of gadget gj
already has a value, which has been computed in a previous iteration
as 
yj′ for some j′ < j.
(d) Let 
Wj ∈Fkj be the list of values on all the kj wires of gj.
(e) The leakage Λj is set to be Λj := α( 
Wj), while the output yj is taken
from the output values stored in 
Wj.
(f) Compute yj = Dec( yj) and sample 
yj? = Blindρ(yj)( yj).
If j ≥i, the leakage and the output will be generated by the corresponding
simulator Sim 
gj. Namely, do the following.
(a) Let x? be possibly blinded the values on the input bundles of gadget
gj. Notice that, for every input bundle, there are only four possibili-
ties:
• the input bundle comes from input gates, in which case
x?
has already been computed among the circuit inputs 
x∗
?
=
Blindρ(x∗)(
x∗);
• the input bundle comes from random gates, in which case just
sample uniform r ∈F and sample x? = Blindρ(r)(Enc(r));
• the input bundle is an output bundle of a functional gadget 
gj′
for j′ < i, in which case we already computed x? as 
yj? =
Blindρ(yj)( yj) in a previous step;
• the input bundle is an output bundle of a functional gadget 
gj′
for j′ ≥i and j′ < j, in which case x? has already been output
by a previous simulator as 
yj?.
In any case, x? is always available.
(b) If some of the values of x? are ⊥, set x? ←⊥; otherwise, leave it
unchanged. This is equivalent to convert the output of Blind into the
output of Blind∗.
(c) Let y = g(x), where x = Dec(x) and x is the collection of the input
values computed as above. Notice that, even if x is not available to
the experiment, x is always available: indeed, the experiment knows
the input x∗and the random coins sampled so far, therefore is able
to deterministically reconstruct x.
(d) Probe y? ←ρ(y).
(e) Run the simulator (Λj, y?) ←Sim 
gi ( x?, y?).
3. Output Λ = Λ1|| . . . ||Λk∗.
Notice that, if we instantiate the above algorithm with i = k∗+1, the part j ≥i
is never executed, and the part j < i is exactly the same as in Hybk∗+1(x∗).
The following lemma says that the changes that we are introducing do not
aﬀect the ﬁnal distribution of the leakage.
Lemma 6. Let x∗be any input to C. Then, for every i ∈[k∗],
Hybi(x∗) ≡Hybi+1(x∗)
The proof of this fact is a simple but long reduction, which can be found in the
full version of the paper [9].

370
G. Brian et al.
For the next step of the proof, we take a closer look at Hyb1(x∗). Namely,
since the branch j < 1 is never executed and all the real functional gadgets have
been replaced with the respective simulators, the description of Hyb1(x∗) looks
as follows.
1. Sample 
x∗= Enc(x∗) and 
x∗
? = Blindρ(x∗)(
x∗).
2. For every j ∈[k∗], compute Λj, yj as follows.
(a) Let x? be the possibly blinded values on the input bundles of gadget gj.
Notice that, for every input bundle, there are only three possibilities:
– the input bundle comes from input gates, in which case x? has already
been computed among the circuit inputs 
x∗
? = Blindρ(x∗)(
x∗);
– the input bundle comes from random gates, in which case just sample
uniform r ∈F and sample x? = Blindρ(r)(Enc(r));
– the input bundle is an output bundle of a functional gadget 
gj′ for j′ <
j, in which case x? has already been output by a previous simulator
as 
yj?.
In any case, x? is always available.
(b) If some of the values of x? are ⊥, set x? ←⊥; otherwise, leave it
unchanged. This is equivalent to convert the output of Blind into the
output of Blind∗.
(c) Let y = g(x), where x = Dec(x) and x is the collection of the input values
computed as above. Notice that, even if x is not available to the exper-
iment, x is always available: indeed, the experiment knows the input x∗
and the random coins sampled so far, therefore is able to deterministically
reconstruct x.
(d) Probe y? ←ρ(y).
(e) Run the simulator (Λj, y?) ←Sim 
gi ( x?, y?).
3. Output Λ = Λ1|| . . . ||Λk∗.
We deﬁne the last hybrid experiment Hyb0 (x∗) as follows. Here we underline the
diﬀerences between Hyb1 and Hyb0.
1.
Run C(x∗) and sample W? := ρ(W(x∗)).
2. For every j ∈[k∗], compute Λj, yj as follows.
(a) Let x? be possibly blinded the values on the input bundles of gadget gj.
Notice that, for every input bundle, there are only three possibilities:
– the input bundle comes from input gates, in which case we set
x? = Enc(x) if the random probing on the original input x was suc-
cessful and x? = ⊥otherwise.
– the input bundle comes from random gates, in which case just sample
uniform r ∈F and sample x? = Blindρ(r)(Enc(r));
– the input bundle is an output bundle of a functional gadget 
gj′ for j′ <
j, in which case x? has already been output by a previous simulator
as 
yj?.
In any case, x? is always available.
(b) If some of the values of x? are ⊥, set x? ←⊥; otherwise, leave it
unchanged. This is equivalent to convert the output of Blind into the
output of Blind∗.

From Random Probing to Noisy Leakages Without Field-Size Dependence
371
(c)
Let y? be the random probing of the output y of the original gate gj, as
already sampled in W?.
(d) Run the simulator (Λj, y?) ←Sim 
gj ( x?, y?).
3. Output Λ = Λ1|| . . . ||Λk∗.
Lemma 7. Let x∗be any input to C. Then, for every i ∈[k∗],
Hyb0(x∗) ≡Hyb1(x∗)
Proof. The only diﬀerences between the two hybrid experiments are when and
how the random probing is sampled. In particular, Hyb1 runs the transformed
circuit C, decodes the values on the wires and then samples random and average
probing leakage. On the other hand, Hyb0 runs the original circuit C, computes
the random probing and then only samples the average probing when needed,
i.e., for the input bundles that are part of the input of the circuit or for the input
bundles that come from random gates. Finally, the average probing samples in
Hyb0 are identically distributed to the ones of Hyb1, since both are identically
distributed to the samples in the real case. The lemma follows.
⊓⊔
Finally, notice that the only use that Hyb0(x∗) makes of x∗is to compute the
values on the wires of the original circuit, which is then only used to sample the
random probing W? := ρ(W(x∗)). We can now extract this procedure outside
the hybrid experiment and directly give the value W? to the experiment; the
simulator is then deﬁned as receiving the random probing W? from the wires
and then running exactly as Hyb0(x∗) from the second step on. Therefore, the
following holds.
Corollary 8. Let x∗be any input to C. Then, for every i ∈[k∗],
Hyb0(x∗) ≡SimC(ρ(W(x∗))).
By putting everything together, we are ﬁnally able to prove Theorem 2.
Proof. As observed at the beginning, Hybk∗+1(x∗) is just a syntactic change from
LeakC(Enc(x∗)) and is, otherwise, identical. Hence:
LeakC(Enc(x∗)) ≡Hybk∗+1(x∗)
≡Hybk∗(x∗)
(By applying Lemma 6)
≡Hyb1(x∗)
(By repeatedly applying Lemma 6)
≡Hyb0(x∗)
(By applying Lemma 7)
≡SimC(ρ(W(x∗))).
(By applying Corollary 8)
This concludes the proof.

372
G. Brian et al.
5
Conclusions and Open Problems
In this work, we presented the ﬁrst generic compiler that compiles any ε-random
probing resilient circuit C into a δ-average probing resilient circuit C, as long as
35δ < ε2.
Our compiler takes a circuit C with W wires and G gates and produces a new
circuit C with W ′ ≤2W + 27G wires and G′ ≤22G gates. Notice that W ′ and
G′ are maximum when C only contains multiplication gates, and in practical
settings, we will usually be below such bounds.
As an immediate application, we are able to achieve the ﬁrst random-probing
to noisy-leakage compiler where the loss in the noise parameter does not depend
on the size of the underlying ﬁeld. We brieﬂy recall below the deﬁnition of noisy-
leakage from [24] and the main result of [17].
Deﬁnition 5 ([24]). Let ε ∈(0, 1) be a parameter. A (randomized) function
ν : F →Ω is ε-noisy leakage if
Δ ((ν(x), x) , (ν(x), x′)) ≤ε,
where x, x′ are uniform over F.
Theorem 3 ([17]). For every ε ∈(0, 1), and every circuit C, C is ε-average-
probing to ε-noisy-leakage simulatable.
In the above, we formalized the result of [17] using Deﬁnition 4. Notice that [17]
does not use a compiler to transform the circuit C, therefore the circuit is sim-
ulatable from C itself. The following corollary is an immediate consequence of
the above and Theorem 2. It implies that circuits transformed by our compiler
from Sect. 4 are δ-noisy secure, if the original circuit is secure against ϵ-random
probing leakage for parameters ϵ and δ as given in the corollary below.
Corollary 9. Let ε, δ ∈(0, 1) be parameters such that
35δ < ε2.
Let C be any circuit and let C be the circuit transformed according to the compiler
in Sect. 4. If C is ε-random-probing resilient, then C is δ-average-probing to δ-
noisy-leakage simulatable.
One limitation of our current analysis is a tightness loss in the noise param-
eters. Concretely, if the circuit C is ϵ-random probing secure, then C is δ-noisy
leakage resilient where 35δ < ε2. The quadratic loss is a consequence of the fact
that our gadget simulator in Sect. 3 only simulates the leakage when random-
probing is successful on all the inputs of the gate in the original circuit. This
happens with probability ε2 for gates with 2 inputs. With our current techniques,
this is somewhat inherent due to the nature of average-probing. In particular,
the simulator cannot simulate the leakage in a consistent way by just receiving

From Random Probing to Noisy Leakages Without Field-Size Dependence
373
partial leakage from one of the inputs (e.g., because the simulator may incor-
rectly assume some values being on the wires that contradict previous leakage
from the circuit). We leave it as an important open problem to further improve
our result and eliminate the quadratic loss.
Acknowledgements. Stefan Dziembowski and Gianluca Brian were supported by
an NCN Grant 2019/35/B/ST6/04138 and by the Copernicus Awards (agreement no.
COP/01/ 2020). This work has been partially funded by the German Research Foun-
dation (DFG) CRC 1119 CROSSING (project S7), the German Federal Ministry of
Education and Research and the Hessen State Ministry for Higher Education, Research
and the Arts within their joint support of the National Research Center for Applied
Cybersecurity ATHENE, by the ERC Grant 101044770 (CRYPTOLAYER) and the
Copernicus Award (INST 18989/419-1).
References
1. Ajtai, M.: Secure computation with information leaking to an adversary, pp. 715–
724 (2011)
2. Ananth, P., Ishai, Y., Sahai, A.: Private circuits: a modular approach. In: Shacham,
H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2018. LNCS, vol. 10993, pp. 427–455. Springer,
Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-96878-0 15
3. Andrychowicz, M., Dziembowski, S., Faust, S.: Circuit compilers with O(1/ log(n))
leakage rate. In: Fischlin, M., Coron, J.-S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2016. LNCS, vol.
9666, pp. 586–615. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
662-49896-5 21
4. Battistello, A., Coron, J.-S., Prouﬀ, E., Zeitoun, R.: Horizontal side-channel attacks
and countermeasures on the ISW masking scheme. In: Gierlichs, B., Poschmann,
A.Y. (eds.) CHES 2016. LNCS, vol. 9813, pp. 23–39. Springer, Heidelberg (2016).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53140-2 2
5. B´eguinot, J., et al.: Removing the ﬁeld size loss from Duc et al.’s conjectured
bound for masked encodings. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2022/1738 (2022).
https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/1738
6. Bela¨ıd, S., Mercadier, D., Rivain, M., Taleb, A.R.: IronMask: versatile veriﬁcation
of masking security, pp. 142–160 (2022)
7. Bela¨ıd, S., Rivain, M., Taleb, A.R.: On the power of expansion: more eﬃcient
constructions in the random probing model. In: Canteaut, A., Standaert, F.-X.
(eds.) EUROCRYPT 2021. LNCS, vol. 12697, pp. 313–343. Springer, Cham (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-77886-6 11
8. Bela¨ıd, S., Rivain, M., Taleb, A.R., Vergnaud, D.: Dynamic random probing
expansion with quasi linear asymptotic complexity. In: Tibouchi, M., Wang, H.
(eds.) ASIACRYPT 2021. LNCS, vol. 13091, pp. 157–188. Springer, Cham (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-92075-3 6
9. Brian, G., Dziembowski, S., Faust, S.: From random probing to noisy leakages
without ﬁeld-size dependence. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2024/339 (2024).
https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/339
10. Cassiers, G., Faust, S., Orlt, M., Standaert, F.-X.: Towards tight random probing
security. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) CRYPTO 2021. LNCS, vol. 12827, pp.
185–214. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84252-9 7

374
G. Brian et al.
11. Cassiers, G., Standaert, F.-X.: Towards globally optimized masking: from low ran-
domness to low noise rate 2019(2), 162–198 (2019). https://tches.iacr.org/index.
php/TCHES/article/view/7389
12. Chari, S., Jutla, C.S., Rao, J.R., Rohatgi, P.: Towards sound approaches to counter-
act power-analysis attacks. In: Wiener, M. (ed.) CRYPTO 1999. LNCS, vol. 1666,
pp. 398–412. Springer, Heidelberg (1999). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48405-
1 26
13. Coron, J.-S., Greuet, A., Zeitoun, R.: Side-channel masking with pseudo-random
generator. In: Canteaut, A., Ishai, Y. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2020. LNCS, vol. 12107,
pp. 342–375. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-45727-
3 12
14. Coron, J.-S., Rondepierre, F., Zeitoun, R.: High order masking of look-up tables
with common shares 2018(1):40–72 (2018). https://tches.iacr.org/index.php/
TCHES/article/view/832
15. Duc, A., Dziembowski, S., Faust, S.: Unifying leakage models: from probing attacks
to noisy leakage. In: Nguyen, P.Q., Oswald, E. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2014. LNCS,
vol. 8441, pp. 423–440. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-642-55220-5 24
16. Duc, A., Faust, S., Standaert, F.-X.: Making masking security proofs concrete (or
how to evaluate the security of any leaking device), extended version 32(4), 1263–
1297 (2019)
17. Dziembowski, S., Faust, S., Skorski, M.: Noisy leakage revisited. In: Oswald, E.,
Fischlin, M. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2015. LNCS, vol. 9057, pp. 159–188. Springer,
Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-46803-6 6
18. Goudarzi, D., Joux, A., Rivain, M.: How to securely compute with noisy leakage
in quasilinear complexity. In: Peyrin, T., Galbraith, S. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2018.
LNCS, vol. 11273, pp. 547–574. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-03329-3 19
19. Ishai, Y., Sahai, A., Wagner, D.: Private circuits: securing hardware against prob-
ing attacks. In: Boneh, D. (ed.) CRYPTO 2003. LNCS, vol. 2729, pp. 463–481.
Springer, Heidelberg (2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-45146-4 27
20. Kocher, P.C.: Timing attacks on implementations of Diﬃe-Hellman, RSA, DSS,
and other systems. In: Koblitz, N. (ed.) CRYPTO 1996. LNCS, vol. 1109, pp.
104–113. Springer, Heidelberg (1996). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-68697-5 9
21. Kocher, P.C., Jaﬀe, J., Jun, B.: Diﬀerential power analysis, pp. 388–397 (1999)
22. Maurer, U., Pietrzak, K., Renner, R.: Indistinguishability ampliﬁcation. In:
Menezes, A. (ed.) CRYPTO 2007. LNCS, vol. 4622, pp. 130–149. Springer, Heidel-
berg (2007). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-74143-5 8
23. Prest, T., Goudarzi, D., Martinelli, A., Passel`egue, A.: Unifying leakage models
on a R´enyi Day. In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio, D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019. LNCS,
vol. 11692, pp. 683–712. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-26948-7 24
24. Prouﬀ, E., Rivain, M.: Masking against side-channel attacks: a formal security
proof. In: Johansson, T., Nguyen, P.Q. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2013. LNCS, vol.
7881, pp. 142–159. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
642-38348-9 9

