Incompressible Cryptography
Jiaxin Guan1(B)
, Daniel Wichs2,3, and Mark Zhandry1,3
1 Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA
jiaxin@guan.io
2 Northeastern University, Boston, MA 02115, USA
3 NTT Research, Inc., Sunnyvale, CA 94085, USA
Abstract. Incompressible encryption allows us to make the ciphertext
size ﬂexibly large and ensures that an adversary learns nothing about
the encrypted data, even if the decryption key later leaks, unless she
stores essentially the entire ciphertext. Incompressible signatures can be
made arbitrarily large and ensure that an adversary cannot produce a
signature on any message, even one she has seen signed before, unless
she stores one of the signatures essentially in its entirety.
In this work, we give simple constructions of both incompressible
public-key encryption and signatures under minimal assumptions. Fur-
thermore, large incompressible ciphertexts (resp. signatures) can be
decrypted (resp. veriﬁed) in a streaming manner with low storage. In
particular, these notions strengthen the related concepts of disappearing
encryption and signatures, recently introduced by Guan and Zhandry
(TCC 2021), whose previous constructions relied on sophisticated tech-
niques and strong, non-standard assumptions. We extend our construc-
tions to achieve an optimal “rate”, meaning the large ciphertexts (resp.
signatures) can contain almost equally large messages, at the cost of
stronger assumptions.
1
Introduction
Security breaches are ubiquitous. Therefore, it is natural to wonder: will
encrypted messages remain secure, even if the secret decryption key is later
leaked? Forward secrecy deals exactly with this problem, but requires either
multi-round protocols or key updates, both of which may be undesirable in many
scenarios. And in the usual time-bounded adversary model, unfortunately, such
limitations are inherent: an adversary can simply store the ciphertext and wait
for the secret key to leak, at which point it can easily decrypt.
Incompressible encryption. In this work we ask: can we force a would-be “save-
it-for-later adversary” to actually store the ciphertext in its entirety, for the
entire length of time it is waiting for the secret key to leak? At a minimum such
storage may be inconvenient, and for very large ﬁles or long time frames, it may
J. Guan—Part of this research was conducted while this author was a research intern
at NTT Research, Inc.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
O. Dunkelman and S. Dziembowski (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2022, LNCS 13275, pp. 700–730, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-06944-4_24

Incompressible Cryptography
701
be prohibitively costly. Even for short messages, one may artiﬁcially increase the
ciphertext size, hopefully forcing the adversary to use much more storage than
message length. We may therefore hope that such an incompressible encryption
scheme maintains the privacy of messages even if the secret key is later revealed.
Remark 1. For an illustrative example, an individual with a gigabit internet
connection can transmit ∼10 TB per day, potentially much more than their own
storage. Of course many entities will have 10 TB or even vastly more, but an
incompressible scheme would force them to devote 10 TB to storing a particular
ciphertext for potentially years until the key is revealed. Across millions or bil-
lions of people, even powerful adversaries like state actors would only be able to
devote such storage to a small fraction of victims.
Unfortunately, traditional public key encryption schemes are not incompress-
ible; an adversary may be able to store only a short digest of the ciphertext and
still obtain non-trivial information about the plaintext once the secret key is
leaked. For example, for eﬃciency reasons, hybrid encryption is typically used
in the public key setting, where the encryption of a message m may look like:
(Enc(pk, s), G(s) ⊕m) .
Here, s is a short seed, and G is a pseudorandom generator used to stretch
the random seed into a pseudorandom pad for the message m. A save-it-for-
later adversary need not store the entire ciphertext; instead, they can store just
Enc(pk, s) as well as, say, the ﬁrst few bits of G(s) ⊕m. Once the secret key is
revealed, they can learn s and then recover the ﬁrst few bits of m. This may
already be enough to compromise the secrecy of m. Such an attack is especially
problematic if we wanted to artiﬁcially increase the ciphertext size by simply
padding the message and appending dummy bits, since then the ﬁrst few bits of
m would contain the entire secret plaintext.
The compressibility issue is not limited to the scheme above: we could replace
G(s)⊕m with a diﬀerent eﬃcient symmetric key encryption scheme such as CBC-
mode encryption, and essentially the same attack would work. The same goes
for bit encryption as well.
Incompressible public key encryption instead requires that if the adversary
stores anything much smaller than the ciphertext, the adversary learns absolutely
nothing about the message, even if the secret key later leaks.
Remark 2. We note that plain public key encryption does have some incompress-
ibility properties. In particular, it is impossible, in a plain public key encryption
scheme, for the adversary to signiﬁcantly compress the ciphertext and later be
able to reconstruct the original ciphertext. However, this guarantee implies noth-
ing about the privacy of the underlying message should the key leak.
Incompressible Signatures. A canonical application of signatures is to prevent
man-in-the-middle attacks: by authenticating each message with a signature,

702
J. Guan et al.
one is assured that the messages were not tampered with. However, a man-in-
the-middle can always delay sending an authenticated message, by storing it for
later. The only way to block such attacks in the usual time-bounded adversary
model is to use multi-round protocols, rely on synchronized clocks and timeouts,
or have the recipients keep state, all of which may be undesirable. We therefore
also consider the case of incompressible signatures, which force such a delaying
adversary to actually store the entire signature for the duration of the delay.
In slightly more detail, in the case of plain signatures, a forgery is a signature
on any new message, one the adversary did not previously see signed. The reason
only new signed messages are considered forgeries is because an adversary can
simply store a valid signature it sees, and later reproduce it. An incompressible
signature, essentially, requires that an adversary who produces a valid signature
on an existing message must have actually stored a string almost as large as the
signature. By making the signatures long, we may hope to make it prohibitively
costly to maintain such storage. As in the case of encryption, existing signature
schemes do not appear to oﬀer incompressible security; indeed, it is usually
desired that signatures are very short.
Feature: Low-storage for streaming honest users. Given that communication
will be inconveniently large for the adversary to store, a desirable feature of
incompressible ciphertexts and signatures is that they can be sent and received
with low storage requirements for the honest users. In such a setting, the honest
users would never store the entire ciphertext or signature, but instead generate,
send, and process the communication bit-by-bit in a streaming fashion.
Feature: High rate. With incompressible ciphertexts and signatures, communi-
cation is set to be deliberately large. If the messages themselves are also large, it
may be costly to further blow up the communication in order to achieve incom-
pressibility. Therefore, a desirable feature is to have the rate—the ratio of the
maximum message length to the communication size—be as close to 1 as possi-
ble. In this way, for very large messages, there is little communication overhead
to make the communication incompressible.
1.1
Prior Work
Dziembowski [Dzi06b] constructed information-theoretically secure symmetric-
key incompressible encryption (referred to as forward-secure encryption) via ran-
domness extractors. The focus of our work is on public-key encryption and sig-
nature schemes, which inherently cannot be information-theoretically secure.1
1 The symmetric-key scheme of [Dzi06b] also only oﬀers one-time security. However,
a simple hybrid argument shows that this implies many-time security, where the
adversary can compress each of many ciphertexts separately and later sees the secret
key. However, it inherently does not oﬀer any security if the adversary can jointly
compress many ciphertexts, even if the compressed value is much smaller than a
single ciphertext! In contrast, public-key incompressible encryption automatically
ensures security in such setting via a simple hybrid argument.

Incompressible Cryptography
703
Very recently, Guan and Zhandry [GZ21] deﬁne and construct what they
call disappearing public key encryption and digital signatures. Their notions are
very similar to ours, except with an important distinction: they assume both
honest and malicious parties operate as space-bounded streaming algorithms
throughout their operation. Honest users are assumed to have a somewhat lower
storage bound than the adversary’s.
In terms of the functionality requirement for honest users, their model cor-
responds to the low-storage streaming variant of incompressible cryptography.
However, in terms of the security requirement, disappearing cryptography is
somewhat weaker, since it restricts the adversary to also be space-bounded
throughout its entire operation, and observe the ciphertexts/signatures produced
by the cryptosystem in a streaming manner. On the other hand, incompressible
cryptography allows the adversary to observe each ciphertext/signature in its
entirety and compute on it using an unrestricted amount of local memory, but
then store some small compressed version of it afterwards. Some disappearing
schemes may be insecure in the incompressible threat model: for example, one
of the disappearing ciphertext schemes from [GZ21] could potentially even be
based on symmetric key cryptography, despite being a public key primitive.2 Yet
public key incompressible ciphertexts easily imply public key encryption, which
is believed to be stronger than symmetric key cryptography [IR90].
In summary, incompressible cryptography with low-storage streaming is also
disappearing, but the reverse direction does not hold.
Guan and Zhandry explain several interesting applications of disappearing
ciphertexts and signatures, including deniable encryption [CDNO97]. Here, one
imagines that the secret key holder is coerced into revealing their key. In order
to protect the contents of an encrypted message, traditional deniable encryp-
tion allows the key holder to generate a fake key that causes the ciphertext to
decrypt to any desired value. Unfortunately, such receiver-deniable encryption
is impossible in the standard model [BNNO11]. Disappearing ciphertexts oﬀer
a solution, since the contents are protected without even faking the key, as the
space-bounded attacker is unable to store the ciphertext.
However, in addition to achieving a weaker security model than incompress-
ible cryptography, the schemes of [GZ21] are based on non-standard heuristic
assumptions. In particular:
– Their schemes are built from a novel object called online obfuscation, a very
strong proposed form of program obfuscation in the bounded storage setting.
While [GZ21] gives plausible candidate constructions, the constructions are
complex and it is unclear how to prove security. It is even plausible that the
notion of online obfuscation is impossible.
– One of their candidates requires, at a minimum, standard-model virtual grey
box (VGB) obfuscation [BCKP14], which is stronger even than indistinguisha-
bility obfuscation [BGI+01], already one of the strongest known assumptions
2 It’s not hard to see that one-way functions, and therefore symmetric key cryptogra-
phy, are implied by disappearing ciphertexts, since the secret key can be information-
theoretically recovered from the public key.

704
J. Guan et al.
in cryptography. And even assuming VGB, the security remains unproven.
Their other candidate could plausibly be information-theoretic (but again,
currently not proven), but is limited to a quadratic separation between the
ciphertext/signature size and the honest users’ storage.
– Their encryption and signature schemes involve ciphertexts/signatures that
are signiﬁcantly larger than the messages, and so their schemes are low “rate”
when the messages are large.
To summarize, prior to this work it was not known how to achieve disappear-
ing/incompressible public-key encryption/signatures with provable security even
under very strong assumptions such as indistinguishability obfuscation!
1.2
Our Results
We give new positive results for incompressible cryptography:
– Under the minimal assumption of standard-model public key encryption, we
construct a simple incompressible public key encryption scheme. The scheme
supports streaming with constant storage, independent of the ciphertext
size. As a special case, we achieve provably secure disappearing ciphertexts
with optimal honest-user storage and under mild assumptions, signiﬁcantly
improving on [GZ21]. The ciphertext size is |c| = |S|+|m|×poly(λ), where |S|
is the adversary’s storage, |m| the message size, and λ the security parameter.
– Under the minimal assumption of one-way functions, we construct incom-
pressible signatures. Our scheme supports streaming with constant storage,
independent of the signature size. Thus we also achieve provably secure disap-
pearing signatures under minimal assumptions, again signiﬁcantly improving
on [GZ21]. The total communication (message length plus signature size) is
|S| + |m| + poly(λ).
– Under standard-model indistinguishability obfuscation (iO), we construct
“rate 1” incompressible public-key encryption, where |c| = |S| + poly(λ) and
the message length can be as large as roughly |S|. In particular, for very large
messages, the ciphertext size is roughly the same as the message size.
The public keys of our scheme are small, but the secret keys in this scheme
are at least as large as the message, which we explain is potentially inherent
amongst provably-secure high-rate schemes.
Along the way, we give the ﬁrst rate-1 construction of functional encryption
for circuits, where |c| = |m| + poly(λ).
– We consider a notion of “rate-1” incompressible signatures, where the total
communication is only |S| + poly(λ), and the message can be as large as
roughly |S|. Note that the signature by itself must have size at least |S|
for incompressibility (since m may be compressible), and so if we separately
send the message and signature, the total communication would be at least
|S| + |m|, which is not rate 1. Instead, we just send a signature and require
the message to be eﬃciently extractible from the signature.

Incompressible Cryptography
705
We show that rate-1 incompressible signatures are equivalent to incompress-
ible encodings, deﬁned by Moran and Wichs [MW20]. By relying on the posi-
tive results of [MW20], we obtain such signatures under either the Decisional
Composite Residuosity (DCR) or Learning With Errors (LWE) assumption,
in either the CRS or random oracle model. The random oracle version sup-
ports low-space streaming, as does the CRS model if we assume the (large)
CRS is streamed. On the other hand, by relying on the negative results
of [MW20], we conclude that a provably secure rate-1 construction in the
standard model is unlikely.
1.3
Other Related Work
Bounded Storage Model. Guan and Zhandry [GZ21] is set in Maurer’s [Mau92]
Bounded Storage Model (BSM), which leverages bounds on the adversary’s
storage to enable applications. Most prior work in the BSM is about achiev-
ing unconditionally secure schemes for the types of scenarios for which we
already have computationally secure schemes in the standard model (CPA
encryption [CM97,AR99,Lu02,Raz17,GZ19], Key Agreement [CM97,GZ19,
DQW21], Oblivious Transfer [CCM98,Din01,DHRS04,GZ19,DQW21], etc.).
Time-stamping [MST04] is perhaps the ﬁrst application of the BSM beyond
achieving information-theoretic security by assuming additional computational
assumptions. Similarly, our work, as well Guan and Zhandry [GZ21], considers
scenarios for which computationally secure schemes in the standard model are
impossible and which only make sense in the BSM (public-key encryption where
the adversary gets the secret key after seeing the ciphertext, signature schemes
where the adversary cannot sign messages whose signatures she has previously
observed). Our results necessarily rely on computational assumptions.
Big-Key Cryptography in the Bounded Retrieval Model. The study of big-key
cryptography in the Bounded Retrieval Model (BRM) has evolved through a
series of works [Dzi06a,DLW06,CDD+07,ADW09,ADN+10,BKR16]. The high-
level diﬀerence is that in the BRM, the secret keys are made large to prevent exﬁl-
tration, while the communication (e.g., ciphertexts, signatures) are kept small.
Incompressible cryptography is the reverse: we make the communication large
to prevent an adversary from being able to remember it in its entirety, while the
secret key is ideally small. On a technical level, while there are some high-level
similarities such as relying on a combination of computational and information-
theoretic techniques, the concrete schemes are quite diﬀerent.
Symmetric Cryptography with Memory-Bounded Adversaries. There has been
various studies into the symmetric-key setting where the adversaries are memory-
bounded. For instance, the work by Rivest [Riv97] introduces all-or-nothing
encryption, a symmetric-key encryption scheme such that only knowing some
individual bits of the ciphertext reveals no information about the message.
This is similar to the forward-secure encryption due to [Dzi06b], except that
in forward-secure encryption, the adversary is allowed to compute an arbitrary

706
J. Guan et al.
function (with a small-sized output) of the ciphertext, instead of only know-
ing a few individual bits of it. So all-or-nothing encryption can be thought
of as disappearing encryption in the symmetric-key setting, whereas forward-
secure encryption is cloaser the a symmetric-key incompressible encryption. The
work by Zaverucha [Zav15] further extends the idea of all-or-nothing encryp-
tion, constructing a password-based encryption scheme. Building on this, the
work by Biryukov and Khovratovich [BK16] constructs memory-hard encryp-
tion by combing the idea from [Zav15] together with an external memory-hard
function, which allows for high memory bounds even with a small block size. All
of these prior works are in the symmetric-key setting, and it is not obvious how
to extend them to the public-key setting as we study in this paper.
1.4
Technical Overview
Incompressible Encryption. We ﬁrst consider incompressible public key encryp-
tion. The syntax is identical to that of standard-model encryption, but the secu-
rity game is diﬀerent:
1. The challenger ﬁrst gives the adversary the public key.
2. The adversary then produces two messages m0, m1.
3. The challenger encrypts one of the two messages, as the ciphertext c.
4. Now the adversary produces a state s of size somewhat smaller than c.
5. The challenger then reveals the secret key.
6. The adversary, given only the small state s but also the secret key, now makes
a guess for which message was encrypted.
Note that, except for the size of the state s being bounded between Steps 4 and 6,
the size of the adversary’s storage is unbounded. It is also easy to see that this
deﬁnition implies standard semantic security of public-key encryption.
Remark 3. Note that this security deﬁnition is quite similar to that of disappear-
ing public key encryption by Guan and Zhandry [GZ21] with two distinctions.
Firstly, in the disappearing encryption security experiment, there is no Step 4
as above. Instead, the adversary is bounded by some space throughout the entire
experiment. Additionally, functionality wise, disappearing encryption requires
the protocol to be executable by honest parties with some space bound lower
than the adversary’s storage. In our setting, we do not consider this to be an
inherent requirement, but rather a desirable feature that some of our schemes
satisfy. As we will see in Remark 4, this feature is incompatible with rate-1
schemes, and hence we will drop it in that setting.
Our Solution. We give a construction of incompressible encryption in Sect. 3,
under the minimal assumption of generic public key encryption.
We describe our solution using functional encryption (FE), which is a form
of public key encryption where the secret key holder can give out function secret
keys for functions f; a function secret key allows for learning f(m) but noth-
ing else about the message. For our application, we only need a very special

Incompressible Cryptography
707
case of single-key functional encryption, which we instantiate with a simple and
potentially practical construction from generic public key encryption scheme.
Our incompressible encryption scheme works as follows:
– The public key is just the public key for the underlying FE scheme. The secret
key is a function secret key for the function fv deﬁned as
fv(s, b) =

s
if b = 0
s ⊕v
if b = 1
where the value v is chosen uniformly at random and hard-coded into fv.
Here, s, v are reasonably short strings, whose length will be discussed shortly.
– To encrypt m, choose a random s, and compute c ←FE.Enc(FE.mpk, (s, 0))
as an encryption of (s, 0) under the FE scheme. Then choose a large random
string R. Interpret s as the pair (s′, t), where t is a string of length equal to
the message length, and s′ is the seed for a strong extractor. Then compute
z = Extract(R; s′) ⊕t ⊕m. The ﬁnal ciphertext is (c, R, z).
– To decrypt, use the FE secret key to recover s = (s′, t) from c. Then recover
m = z ⊕Extract(R; s′) ⊕t.
We can generate and transmit the string R in a streaming fashion. We can then
use an online extractor [Vad03] so that Extract(R; s′) can be computed without
having to store R in its entirety. Note that R is the only “big” component of the
ciphertext, so encryption and decryption therefore require small space.
We prove security through a hybrid argument. First, we use FE security
to switch to c being generated as c ←FE.Enc(FE.mpk, (s ⊕v, 1)). Since this c
decrypts equivalently under the secret key, this change is indistinguishable.
We then observe that the string u = s ⊕v being encrypted under the FE
scheme, as well as the string z included in the ﬁnal ciphertext, are both just
uniformly random strings. We can therefore delay the generation of the secret
key and v until the very end of the experiment. Now we think of the adversary’s
state (as well as some other small values needed to complete the simulation) as
a leakage on the large random string R. Since the adversary’s storage is required
to be small compared to R, R has min-entropy conditioned on this leakage. This
means we can invoke the randomness guarantee of the randomness extractor to
replace Extract(R; s′) with a uniform random string. At this point, m is one-time-
padded with a uniform string, and therefore information-theoretically hidden.
We explain how to instantiate the functional encryption scheme. Since the
adversary only ever sees a single secret key, we can build such a functional
encryption scheme generically from public key encryption, using garbled circuit
techniques [GVW12]. On the other hand, our functional encryption scheme only
needs to support an extremely simple linear function. We show a very simple
and potentially practical solution from any public key encryption scheme.
Remark 4. We note that our scheme has a less-than-ideal rate, since the cipher-
text size is at least as large as the adversary’s storage plus the length of the

708
J. Guan et al.
message. Low rates, however, are inherent to schemes supporting low-storage
streaming. Indeed, the storage requirements of the honest users must be at least
as large as the message, and in the high-rate case this means the honest users
must be capable of storing the entire ciphertext. This remains true even if the
message itself is streamed bit-by-bit, which can be seen as follows: by incompress-
ibility, the decrypter cannot start outputting message bits until essentially the
entire stream has been sent. Otherwise, an attacker can store a short preﬁx of the
ciphertext, and then when it gets the secret key mimic the decrypter until it out-
puts the ﬁrst message bit. Now, at the point right before the decrypter outputs
the ﬁrst message bit, the entire contents of the message must be information-
theoretically contained within the remaining communication (which is short) and
the decrypter’s state, since the decrypter ultimately outputs the whole message.
Thus the decrypter’s state must be almost as large as the message.
A rate-1 solution. We now discuss how we achieve a rate-1 scheme, using indis-
tinguishability obfuscation. This is our most complicated construction, and we
only give a brief overview here with the full construction in Sect. 4.
The central diﬃculty in achieving a rate-1 scheme is that we cannot guarantee
a ciphertext with large information-theoretic entropy. Indeed, the ciphertext
must be almost as small as the message, so there is little room for added entropy
on top of the message. But the message itself, while large, many not have much
entropy. Therefore, our approach of using randomness extraction to extract a
random string from the ciphertext will not work naively.
Our solution, very roughly, is to have the large random value in the secret
key. Using a delicate argument, we switch to a hybrid where the ciphertext
is just an encryption of large randomness R, and the secret key contains the
message, masked by a string extracted from R. Now we can mimic the low-rate
case, arguing that given the small state produced by the adversary, R still has
min-entropy. Thus, the message m is information-theoretically hidden.
The result is that we achieve an incompressible encryption scheme whose
rate matches the rate of the underlying functional encryption scheme. Unlike the
low-rate case, our FE scheme appears to need the full power of FE for circuits,
since it will be evaluating cryptographic primitives such as PRGs and extractors.
Unfortunately, all existing FE schemes for general circuits, even using iO, have
poor rate. For example, if we look at the original iO scheme of [GGH+13], the
ciphertext contains two plain public key encryption encryptions of the message,
plus a NIZK proof of consistency. The result is that the rate is certainly at
most 1/3. Another construction due to [BCP14] sets the ciphertext to be an
obfuscated program containing the message; since known obfuscation schemes
incur a large blowup, the scheme is not rate-1.
We give a novel rate-1 FE scheme (with many key security), by building on
ideas from [BZ14]. They build an object called private linear broadcast encryp-
tion (PLBE), which can be seen as a special case of FE for simple comparison
functionalities. However, their approach readily generalizes to more complex
functionalities. The problem with their construction is that their proof incurs a
security loss proportional to the domain size. In their case, the domain is poly-

Incompressible Cryptography
709
nomial and this is not a problem. But in our case, the domain is the message
space, which is exponential. One may hope to use complexity leveraging, but
this would require setting the security parameter to be at least as large as the
message. However, this will not give a rate-1 scheme since the ciphertext is larger
than the message by an additive factor linear in the security parameter.
We therefore devise new techniques for proving security with just a poly-
nomial loss, even for large messages, thus giving the ﬁrst rate-1 FE scheme for
general circuits, from iO and one-way functions. Details in Sect. 7.
Remark 5. We note that the ﬁnal construction of rate-1 incompressible encryp-
tion has very short public keys, but large secret keys. We therefore leave as an
interesting open question devising a scheme that also has short secret keys. How-
ever, achieving such a scheme with provable security under standard assumptions
appears hard. Indeed, cryptographic assumptions typically make no restrictions
on the adversary’s storage. The issue is that the message itself may have little
entropy, and so to prove that a ciphertext is incompressible it seems the compu-
tational assumptions will be used to transition to a hybrid where the ciphertext
has nearly full entropy (indeed, this is how our proof works). But this transition
happens without space bounds, meaning the reduction actually is capable of
decrypting the ciphertext and recovering the message once the key is revealed.
Yet in this hybrid the ciphertext was “used up” in order to make it high-entropy,
and it seems the only place left to embed the message is the secret key (again,
this is how our proof works). If the message is large, it therefore seems the secret
key must be large as well. We believe this intuition can be formalized as a black-
box separation result, similarly to analogous results of [Wic13], but we leave this
for future work.
Incompressible Signatures. An incompressible signature scheme is deﬁned by the
following experiment:
1. The challenger ﬁrst gives the adversary the public key.
2. The adversary makes repeated signing queries on arbitrary messages. In
response, the challenger produces a signature on the message.
3. After observing many signatures, the adversary must produce a small state s
of size somewhat smaller than a single signature.
4. Next, the adversary, is given the small state s, and wins if it produces a valid
signature on any message, potentially even one used in a prior signing query.
Note that, except for the size of the state s being bounded between Steps
3
and 4, the size of the adversary’s storage is unbounded.
Remark 6. This deﬁnition is also quite similar to that of disappearing signature
due to Guan and Zhandry [GZ21] except for two diﬀerences. For disappearing
signatures, the security experiment does not have Step 3 as above, and instead
requires the adversary to be bounded by some space throughout the entire exper-
iment. Functionality wise, disappearing signature requires the scheme can be
run by honest parties with a space bound somewhat lower that the adversary’s
storage, whereas we don’t require that for incompressible signatures.

710
J. Guan et al.
Our Solution. We give a very simple construction of incompressible signatures
in Sect. 5. To sign m, ﬁrst choose a large uniformly random string R, and then
compute σ ←Sign(sk, (R, m)), where Sign is a standard-model signature scheme.
The overall signature is then (R, σ). Veriﬁcation is straightforward.
Both signing and veriﬁcation can be evaluated in a low-space streaming fash-
ion, provided Sign can be evaluated as such. One can always assume this property
of Sign: ﬁrst hash the message using a streaming-friendly hash function such as
Merkle-Damg˚ard, and then sign the hash. Since the hash is small and computing
the hash requires low-space, the overall signing algorithm is low space.
For security, consider an adversary which produces a small state s somewhat
smaller than the length of R. Since R is random, it will be infeasible for the
adversary to re-produce R in Step 4. Therefore, any valid signature must have
an R diﬀerent than any of the messages previously signed. But this then violates
the standard unforgeability of Sign.
A rate-1 solution. In Sect. 6, we modify the above construction to get a rate-
1 solution. We note that “rate” here has to be deﬁned carefully. In the above
solution, the signature size is independent of the message size, and so it seems
that the signature has good rate. However, communication will involve both
the signature and the message, and so the total length of the communication
will be signiﬁcantly larger than the message. We therefore want that the total
communication length is only slightly longer than the message being signed.
On the other hand, if the message is very long, one may naturally won-
der whether we can just sign the message using any standard-model signature
scheme, and have the resulting communication be rate-1. However, a long mes-
sage may in fact be compressible. What we want is to achieve rate-1 total com-
munication, and incompressibility, even if the message may be compressed.
We therefore deﬁne a rate-1 incompressible signature as an incompressible
signature where the signature is only slightly longer than the message, and where
there is a procedure to extract the message from the signature. In this way, all
that needs to be sent is the signature itself, and therefore the total communica-
tion remains roughly the same as the message.
Equivalence to incompressible encodings. We next demonstrate that incompress-
ible signatures are equivalent to incompressible encodings [MW20]. These are
public encoding schemes where the encoding encodes a message into a codeword
c that is only slightly longer than the message. From c, the original message
can be recovered using a decoding procedure. For security, the adversary then
receives the codeword as well as the message, tries to compress the codeword
into a small storage s. Then the adversary, given s and the message, tries to
recover the exact codeword c.
A rate-1 incompressible signature (with small public keys) gives an incom-
pressible encoding: to encode a message, simply generate a new public/secret key
pair, and sign the message. The codeword c is then the public key together with
the signature. Decoding and security follow readily from the message extraction
procedure and security of the incompressible signature.

Incompressible Cryptography
711
In the other direction, to sign a message, ﬁrst incompressibly encode the mes-
sage and then sign the result using a standard-model signature scheme. The ﬁnal
signature is the codeword together with the standard-model signature. Extrac-
tion follows from the decoding procedure. If the incompressible encoding sup-
ports low-space streaming, so does the signature scheme. For security, since the
adversary cannot produce the original codeword that was signed due to the secu-
rity of the incompressible encoding, they must produce some other codeword.
But a valid signature would also contain a standard-model signature on this new
codeword, violating the security of the signature scheme.
Moran and Wichs [MW20] instantiate incompressible encodings under either
the Decisional Composite Residuosity (DCR) or Learning With Errors (LWE)
assumptions, in either the CRS or random oracle models. We observe that their
incompressible encodings simply break the message into blocks of length poly(λ)
and encode each block separately; as such they can be easily streamed in low
space, though the CRS-based scheme would need the CRS to be streamed as
well. We obtain the incompressible signatures under the same assumptions in
the same models, with low-space streaming.
We also note that we can have the signer generate the CRS and include
it in the public key, giving a standard-model incompressible encoding scheme
with large public keys. Note that such a scheme is not immediately equivalent to
incompressible encodings, since the codeword contains the public key, and would
therefore be too large.
On the other hand, [MW20] show that a CRS or random oracle is somewhat
necessary, by giving a black box separation relative to falsiﬁable assumptions
in the standard model. Due to our equivalence, this implies such a black box
impossibility for incompressible signatures in the standard model as well.
2
Preliminaries
Min-Entropy Extractor. Recall the deﬁnition for average min-entropy:
Deﬁnition 1 (Average Min-Entropy). For two jointly distributed random
variables (X, Y ), the average min-entropy of X conditioned on Y is deﬁned as
H∞(X|Y ) = −log Ey
$
←Y [max
x
Pr[X = x|Y = y]].
Lemma 1 ([DRS04]). For random variables X, Y where Y is supported over a
set of size T, we have H∞(X|Y ) ≥H∞(X, Y ) −log T ≥H∞(X) −log T.
Deﬁnition 2 (Extractor [Nis90]). A function Extract : {0, 1}n × {0, 1}d →
{0, 1}m is a (k, ϵ) strong average min-entropy extractor if, for all jointly
distributed random variables (X, Y ) where X takes values in {0, 1}n and
H∞(X|Y ) ≥k, we have that (Ud, Extract(X; Ud), Y ) is ϵ-close to (s, Um, Y ),
where Ud and Um are uniformly random strings of length d and m respectively.
Remark 7. Any strong randomness extractor is also a strong average min-
entropy extractor, with a constant loss in ϵ.

712
J. Guan et al.
Digital Signatures. We also generalize the syntax of a signature scheme, which
will ultimately be necessary to achieve a meaningful high “rate”. Instead of
producing a signature that is sent along side the message, we would implicitly
embed or encode the message into the signature. The signature is then all that
is sent to the receiver, from which the message can be decoded and veriﬁed. Any
standard signature scheme can readily be viewed in our generalized syntax by
just calling (m, σ) the “signature.”
A public key signature scheme for message space {0, 1}Lm and signature
space {0, 1}Lσ is a tuple of PPT algorithms Π = (Gen, Sign, Ver) such that:
– Gen(1λ) →(vk, sk) samples a veriﬁcation key vk, and a signing key sk.
– Sign(sk, m) →σ takes as input the signing key sk and a message m, and
computes a signature σ that implicitly contains the message m.
– Ver(vk, σ) →m/⊥takes as input the veriﬁcation key vk and a signature
σ, and outputs either the message m or ⊥. Outputting m means that the
signature veriﬁes, and outputting ⊥means that the signature is invalid.
Deﬁnition 3 (Correctness). For all λ ∈N and message m ∈{0, 1}Lm, let
(vk, sk) ←Gen(1λ), then we have Pr[Ver(vk, Sign(sk, m)) = m] ≥1 −negl(λ).
We modify the security experiment slightly by asking the adversary to output
a signature σ instead of a message-signature pair, and the adversary wins the
game if and only if Ver(vk, σ) /∈{⊥, m1, . . . , mq} where mi’s are the previously
queried messages. The “rate” of the signature scheme is deﬁned to be Lm/Lσ.
Functional Encryption. For our constructions we also need single-key game-
based functional encryption. Let λ be the security parameter. Let {Cλ} be
a class of circuits with input space Xλ and output space Yλ. A functional
encryption scheme for the circuit class {Cλ} is a tuple of PPT algorithms
FE = (Setup, KeyGen, Enc, Dec) deﬁned as follows:
– Setup(1λ) →(mpk, msk) takes as input the security parameter λ, and outputs
the master public key mpk and the master secret key msk.
– KeyGen(msk, C) →skC takes as input the master secret key msk and a circuit
C ∈{Cλ}, and outputs a function key skC.
– Enc(mpk, m) →ct takes as input the public key mpk and a message m ∈Xλ,
and outputs the ciphertext ct.
– Dec(skC, ct) →y takes as input a function key skC and a ciphertext ct, and
outputs a value y ∈Yλ.
We can analogously deﬁne the “rate” of an FE scheme to be the ratio between
the message length to the ciphertext length. We require correctness and security
of a functional encryption scheme.

Incompressible Cryptography
713
Deﬁnition 4 (Correctness). A functional encryption scheme FE = (Setup,
KeyGen, Enc, Dec) is said to be correct if for all C ∈{Cλ} and m ∈Xλ:
Pr
⎡
⎢⎢⎣y = C(m) :
(mpk, msk) ←Setup(1λ)
skC ←KeyGen(msk, C)
ct ←Enc(mpk, m)
y ←Dec(skC, ct)
⎤
⎥⎥⎦≥1 −negl(λ).
Consider the following Semi-Adaptive Security Experiment, DistSemiAdpt
FE,A
(λ):
– Run FE.Setup(1λ) to obtain (mpk, msk) and sample a random bit b ←{0, 1}.
– On input 1λ and mpk, The adversary A submits the challenge query consisting
of two messages m0 and m1. It then receives ct ←FE.Enc(mpk, mb).
– The adversary now submits a circuit C ∈{Cλ} s.t. C(m0) = C(m1), and
receives skC ←FE.KeyGen(msk, C).
– The adversary A outputs a guess b′ for b. If b′ = b, we say that the adversary
succeeds and experiment outputs 1. Otherwise, the experiment outputs 0.
Deﬁnition 5 (Single-Key Semi-Adaptive Security). For security param-
eter λ, a functional encryption scheme FE = (Setup, KeyGen, Enc, Dec) is said to
have single-key semi-adaptive security if for all PPT adversaries A :
Pr
	
DistSemiAdpt
FE,A
(λ) = 1

≤1
2 + negl(λ).
We can also consider selective security, where the adversary only receives mpk
after sending the challenge messages. We can also consider many-time semi-
adaptive/selective security, where the adversary is able to adaptively query for
as many skC as it would like, provided they all occur after the challenge query.
3
Incompressible Encryption: Our Basic Construction
Here we show how to construct an incompressible public key encryption scheme
with low “rate”, i.e. the ratio of the message size to the ciphertext size. First, we
deﬁne what it means for a public key encryption scheme to be incompressible.
3.1
Deﬁnition
We give the deﬁnition of incompressible encryption, which is based on the similar
deﬁnition of disappearing encryption [GZ21]. For security parameters λ and S,
an incompressible public key encryption scheme with message space {0, 1}Lm
and ciphertext space {0, 1}Lct is a tuple of PPT algorithms Π = (Gen, Enc, Dec).
Remark 8. For the original disappearing PKE deﬁned in [GZ21], it is addition-
ally required that Gen, Enc, and Dec can be run in space N ≪Lct. Here, we will
consider schemes that have both large and small space.

714
J. Guan et al.
The rest of the syntax of an incompressible PKE scheme is identical to that
of a classical PKE scheme. The “rate” of the PKE scheme is simply Lm/Lct.
For the security deﬁnition, consider the following indistinguishability exper-
iment for an adversary A = (A1, A2):
Incompressible Encryption Security Experiment DistIncomEnc
A,Π
(λ):
1. The adversary A1, on input 1λ, outputs a space bound 1S.
2. Run Gen(1λ, 1S) to obtain keys (pk, sk).
3. Sample a uniform bit b ∈{0, 1}.
4. The adversary is then provided the public key pk.
5. The adversary replies with the challenge query consisting of two messages m0
and m1, receives ct ←Enc(pk, mb).
6. A1 produces a state st of size at most S.
7. The adversary A2 is given the tuple (pk, sk, m0, m1, st) and outputs a guess
b′ for b. If b′ = b, we say that the adversary succeeds and the output of the
experiment is 1. Otherwise, the experiment outputs 0.
Deﬁnition 6 (Incompressible Encryption Security). For security param-
eters λ and S, a public key encryption scheme Π = (Gen, Enc, Dec) has incom-
pressible encryption security if for all PPT adversaries A = (A1, A2):
Pr
	
DistIncomEnc
A,Π
(λ) = 1

≤1
2 + negl(λ).
Remark 9. The original Disappearing Ciphertext Security [GZ21] has a very sim-
ilar security notion, except that the adversary has a space bound of S throughout
the entire experiment, and that the ciphertext is a long stream sent bit by bit.
Notice that our deﬁnition of Incompressible Encryption Security is a strictly
stronger security deﬁnition than Disappearing Ciphertext Security.
3.2
Construction
Construction 1. Given FE = (Setup, KeyGen, Enc, Dec) a single-key selectively
secure functional encryption scheme with a rate of ρFE and a strong average
min-entropy extractor Extract : {0, 1}n × {0, 1}d →{0, 1}Lm, with d = poly(λ)
and n = S + poly(λ) the construction Π = (Gen, Enc, Dec) works as follows:
– Gen(1λ, 1S): First, obtain (FE.mpk, FE.msk) ←FE.Setup(1λ). Then, generate
the secret key for the following function fv with a hardcoded v ∈{0, 1}d+Lm:
fv(s′ = (s, t), ﬂag) =

s′
if ﬂag = 0
s′ ⊕v
if ﬂag = 1 .
Output pk = FE.mpk and sk = FE.skfv ←FE.KeyGen(FE.msk, fv).
– Enc(pk, m): Sample a random tuple s′ = (s, t) where s ∈{0, 1}d is used as
a seed for the extractor and t ∈{0, 1}Lm is used as a one-time pad. The
ciphertext consists of three parts: FE.ct ←FE.Enc(FE.mpk, (s′, 0)), a long
randomness R ∈{0, 1}n, and z = Extract(R; s) ⊕t ⊕m.

Incompressible Cryptography
715
– Dec(sk, ct = (FE.ct, R, z)): First, obtain s′ ←FE.Dec(FE.skfv, FE.ct), and
then use the seed s to compute Extract(R; s) ⊕z ⊕t to recover m.
Note that if Extract is an online extractor [Vad03], then encryption and decryp-
tion can be run in a low-space streaming fashion, by ﬁrst sending FE.ct, then
streaming R, and then sending z. The rate of this construction is
Lm
Lct
= Lm
d + Lm + 1
ρFE
+ n + Lm
−1
=
1
(1/ρFE + 1) + S/Lm
−o(1).
Theorem 1. Assuming the existence of a functional encryption scheme with
single-key selective security and a rate of 1/poly(λ), and a (poly(λ), negl(λ))
average min-entropy extractor, there exists an incompressible PKE with cipher-
text size S+Lm+poly(λ)+poly(λ)Lm, public key size poly(λ) and secret key size
poly(λ). It supports streaming decryption using Lm + poly(λ) bits of memory.
3.3
Proof of Security
We organize our proof of security into a sequence of hybrids.
Sequence of Hybrids
– H0: The original incompressible encryption security experiment DistIncomEnc
A,Π
,
where the bit b in the experiment is ﬁxed to be 0.
– H1: In step 5, instead of computing FE.ct ←FE.Enc(FE.mpk, (s′, 0)), compute
FE.ct ←FE.Enc(FE.mpk, (s′ ⊕v, 1)).
– H2: In step 2, only sample (FE.mpk, FE.msk) ←FE.Setup(1λ). In step 5,
after receiving the challenge query, sample uniformly random z ∈{0, 1}Lm,
u ∈{0, 1}d+Lm, R ∈{0, 1}n and send back FE.ct ←FE.Enc(FE.mpk, (u, 1)),
R, and z as the ciphertext. In step 7, sample a uniformly random s ∈{0, 1}d,
and compute t = Extract(R; s) ⊕z ⊕m0, and v = s′ ⊕u where s′ is the tuple
(s, t). Use this v to compute sk = FE.skfv ←FE.KeyGen(FE.msk, fv).
– H3: In step 7, sample a uniformly random r ∈{0, 1}Lm and compute t =
r ⊕z ⊕m0 instead.
– H4: Swap the bit b in the security experiment to be 1 instead of 0.
– H5: Switch back to the case where t = Extract(R; s) ⊕z ⊕m1.
– H6: Switch back to the case where we produce sk in step 2 instead of step 5.
– H7: Switch the FE ciphertext back to the real one FE.Enc(FE.mpk, (s′, 0)).
Notice here we’re at the original incompressible encryption security experi-
ment, where the bit b is ﬁxed to be 1.
Proof of Hybrid Arguments
Lemma 2. If the functional encryption scheme FE has single-key selective secu-
rity, then no PPT adversary can distinguish between H0 and H1 (respectively H6
and H7) with non-negligible probability.

716
J. Guan et al.
Proof. Here we will prove the case for H0 and H1. The case for H6 and H7 follows
analogously. This is by a simple reduction to the single-key selective security
of the functional encryption scheme. If an adversary A is able to distinguish
between H0 and H1, we show how to construct an adversary A′ that breaks
security of the functional encryption scheme FE. The only diﬀerence between
H0 and H1 is that in H0 the adversary receives an encryption of (s′, 0), while in
H1 the adversary receives an encryption of (s′ ⊕v, 1). But notice that fv(s′, 0) =
s′ = fv(s′ ⊕v, 1), so the adversary A is able to distinguish between two FE
ciphertexts that have the same functional output on function fv, for which it has
a secret key. This directly breaks the underlying functional encryption security.
Concretely, A′ works as follows by using A = (A1, A2) as a subroutine:
– On input 1λ, sample uniform values s′ and v, and submit the challenge query
FE.m0 = (s′, 0) and FE.m1 = (s′ ⊕v, 1) to the challenger. Receive FE.mpk
and FE.ct in response.
– Send 1λ to A1 and receive 1S.
– Send FE.mpk to A1, receive challenge query m0 and m1, and respond with
FE.ct, R and z, where R is a random string of length S + poly(λ), and z =
Extract(R; s) ⊕t ⊕m0. The adversary A1 produces a state st. Notice that
the only component that’s diﬀerent for H0 and H1 is FE.ct, and it does not
depend on the challenge query from A1. R and z remain unchanged.
– Send fv to the challenger and receive FE.skfv. Forward sk = FE.skfv to A2
together with (FE.mpk, m0, m1, st).
– If A2 outputs that it is in H0, output 0. Otherwise, output 1.
It is straightforward to verify that if A wins the game, A′ wins as well.
⊓⊔
Lemma 3. No adversary can distinguish between H1 and H2 (respectively H5
and H6) with non-negligible probability.
Proof. We prove the case for H1 and H2, the case for H5 and H6 follows analo-
gously. Since pk does not depend on sk, and sk is not used until in step 7, now
instead of ﬁxing fv (and thus sk = FE.skfv) in step 2, we sample it lazily in
step 7. Our new sampling procedure in H2 makes the following two changes to
H1: First, in H1, we sample a uniform t and compute z = Extract(R; s)⊕t⊕m0,
while in H2, we sample a uniform z and compute t = Extract(R; s)⊕z⊕m0. This
is just a change of variables, and gives two identical distributions. Second, in H1
we sample a uniform v and encrypt u = v ⊕s′, while in H2 we encrypt a uniform
u and compute v = u ⊕s′. Again, these are identical distributions. Thus, no
adversary can distinguish between H1 and H2 with non-negligible probability. ⊓⊔
Lemma 4. If the extractor Extract is a (poly(λ), negl(λ)) average min-entropy
extractor, then no adversary that produces a state st of size at most S can dis-
tinguish between H2 and H3 (resp. H4 and H5) with non-negligible probability.
Proof. We prove the case for H2 and H3. The other case follows naturally.

Incompressible Cryptography
717
Here let the random variables X = R, and Y = (FE.mpk, FE.msk, m0, m1,
u, z) and Z = st. By Lemma 1, we have
H∞(X|Y, Z) ≥min
y
H∞(X|Y = y, Z) ≥min
y
H∞(X|Y = y) −S = poly(λ).
The last equality above follows since X = R is a uniformly random string,
independent of Y , of length S + poly(λ). By extractor security, no adversary
can distinguish (s, Extract(R; s), Y, Z) from (s, ULm, Y, Z) except with negl(λ)
probability. Since we now sample u ←ULm, no adversary can now distinguish
between t = Extract(R; s) ⊕z ⊕m0 and t = u ⊕z ⊕m0, i.e. H2 and H3.
⊓⊔
Lemma 5. No adversary can distinguish H3 from H4 with non-zero probability.
Proof. Notice that the only diﬀerence between H3 and H4 is that in H3 we have
t = r ⊕z ⊕m0 while in H4 we have t = r ⊕z ⊕m1, where r is uniformly random.
Thus t is uniformly random in both cases, and H3 and H4 are identical.
⊓⊔
Theorem 2. If FE is a functional encryption scheme with single-key selective
security, and Extract is a (poly(λ), negl(λ)) average min-entropy extractor, then
Construction 1 has incompressible encryption security.
Proof. The lemmas above show a sequence of hybrids where no PPT adversary
that produces a state with size at most S can distinguish one from the next with
non-negligible probability. The ﬁrst hybrid H0 corresponds to the incompressible
encryption security game where b = 0, and the last one H7 corresponds to the
case where b = 1. The security of the indistinguishability game follows.
⊓⊔
3.4
Instantiating Our FE
We now give a simple construction of functional encryption for our needed func-
tionality. Recall that our functions fv have the form fv(s, ﬂag) = s ⊕(ﬂag · v).
Construction 2. Let (Gen′, Enc′, Dec′) be a public key encryption scheme. Our
scheme FE = (Setup, KeyGen, Enc, Dec) for message length n + 1 is deﬁned as:
– Setup(1λ): For i ∈{1, . . . , n}, b ∈{0, 1}, run (pki,b, ski,b) ←Gen′(1λ). Output
(mpk = (pki,b)i,b, msk = (ski,b)i,b).
– KeyGen(msk, fv) = (ski,vi)i.
– Enc(mpk, (s, ﬂag)): For i
∈
{1, . . . , n}, b
∈
{0, 1}, compute ci,b
=
Enc′(pki,b, si ⊕(ﬂag · b)). Output c = (ci,b)i,b.
– Dec(skfv, c): Output x = x1x2 · · · xn where xi = Dec′(ski,vi, ci,vi)
For correctness, note that xi = si⊕(ﬂag·vi), and therefore x = s⊕(ﬂag·v) =
fv(s, ﬂag). Note that the rate of this scheme is 1/poly(λ). Thus the overall rate
of our incompressible encryption scheme is 1/poly(λ).
Theorem 3. If (Gen′, Enc′, Dec′) is a CPA secure public key encryption scheme,
then Construction 2 is single key semi-adaptively secure for the functions fv.

718
J. Guan et al.
Proof. Consider a single key semi-adaptive adversary for Construction 2. Let
m0 = (s0, ﬂag0), m1 = (s1, ﬂag1) be the challenge messages. For a ﬁxed ﬂag bit,
fv is injective. Therefore, if m0 ̸= m1, it must be that ﬂag0 ̸= ﬂag1. Then if the
adversary’s secret key query is on fv, we must have v = s0 ⊕s1. Thus the two
possibilities for the challenge ciphertext are the same for ci,vi, but encrypt oppo-
site bits in ci,1−vi. Since the adversary never gets to see the secret keys ski,1−vi,
a simple hybrid argument shows that ﬂipping these bits is indistinguishable. ⊓⊔
Corollary 1. Assuming the existence of a CPA secure public key encryption
scheme and a (poly(λ), negl(λ)) average min-entropy extractor, there exists an
incompressible PKE with ciphertext size S + Lm + poly(λ) + poly(λ)Lm, public
key size poly(λ) and secret key size poly(λ). Furthermore, it supports streaming
decryption using Lm + poly(λ) bits of memory.
4
Rate-1 Incompressible Encryption
Here, we construct incompressible encryption with an optimal rate of 1 −o(1),
i.e. the message length is (almost) the same as the ciphertext length.
4.1
Construction
For our construction, we require a functional encryption scheme with single-key
semi-adaptive security and a rate of 1, a strong average min-entropy extractor,
and a secure pseudorandom generator (PRG). Our construction works as follows.
Construction 3. Given FE
=
(Setup, KeyGen, Enc, Dec) a rate-1 func-
tional encryption scheme satisfying single-key semi-adaptive security, Extract :
{0, 1}Lm × {0, 1}d →{0, 1}n a strong average min-entropy extractor where
d, n = poly(λ), and PRG : {0, 1}n →{0, 1}Lm a secure PRG, the construction
Π = (Gen, Enc, Dec) works as follows:
– Gen(1λ, 1S): First, obtain (FE.mpk, FE.msk) ←FE.Setup(1λ). Then, generate
the secret key for the following function fv,s with a hardcoded large random
pad v ∈{0, 1}Lm and a small extractor seed s ∈{0, 1}d:
fv,s(x, ﬂag) =

x
if ﬂag = 0
PRG(Extract(x; s)) ⊕v
if ﬂag = 1 .
Output pk = FE.mpk and sk = FE.skfv,s ←FE.KeyGen(FE.msk, fv,s). Set
Lm = S + poly(λ).
– Enc(pk, m): The ciphertext is simply an encryption of (m, 0) using the under-
lying FE scheme, i.e. FE.ct ←FE.Enc(FE.mpk, (m, 0)).
– Dec(sk, ct): Decryption also corresponds to FE decryption. The output is sim-
ply FE.Dec(FE.skfv,s, ct) = fv,s(m, 0) = m as desired.

Incompressible Cryptography
719
Let ρFE be the rate of FE. Then the ciphertext size is (Lm + 1)/ρFE and
the rate of our incompressible encryption scheme is ρΠ = ρFE/(1 + L−1
m ). If
ρFE = 1 −o(1), then ρΠ = 1 −o(1) as well.
Theorem 4. Assuming the existence of a functional encryption scheme with
single-key semi-adaptive security and a rate of 1 −o(1), and a (poly(λ), negl(λ))
average min-entropy extractor, there exists an incompressible PKE with message
size of up to S −poly(λ), ciphertext size S + poly(λ), public key size poly(λ) and
secret key size poly(S, λ).
4.2
Proof of Security
We organize our proof of security into a sequence of hybrids.
Sequence of Hybrids
– H0: The original incompressible encryption security experiment DistIncomEnc
A,Π
,
where the bit b in the experiment is ﬁxed to be 0.
– H1: Instead of ﬁxing v and s in step 2 of the security experiment, lazily sample
v and s in step 7 where we need to provide sk. Also, instead of sampling v
directly, ﬁrst sample a uniformly random u ∈{0, 1}Lm, and then compute
v = u ⊕m0.
– H2: We further modify how we sample v. Now instead of sampling a random
u, we sample a random PRG key k ∈{0, 1}n, and set v = PRG(k) ⊕m0.
– H3: We once more modify how we sample v. We now sample a long random-
ness R ∈{0, 1}Lm and use that to compute v = PRG(Extract(R; s)) ⊕m0.
– H4: In step 5, set the ciphertext to be FE.ct ←FE.Enc(FE.mpk, (R, 1)).
– H5: In step 7, revert to computing v = PRG(k) ⊕m0 for a uniform k.
– H6: In step 7, revert to computing v = u ⊕m0 for a uniform u.
– H7: Switch the bit b of the experiment from 0 to 1.
– H8: In step 7, sample v as PRG(k) ⊕m1.
– H9: In step 7, sample v as PRG(Extract(R; s)) ⊕m1.
– H10: In step 5, change the ciphertext back to FE.ct ←FE.Enc(FE.mpk,
(m1, 0)).
– H11: In step 7, sample v as PRG(k) ⊕m1.
– H12: In step 7, sample v as u ⊕m1.
– H13: Sample a uniform v back at the beginning of the experiment in step 2.
Notice that now we’re back at the original incompressible encryption security
experiment, where the bit b is ﬁxed to be 1.
For the proofs of the hybrids and Theorem 4, please refer to the full version.
5
Incompressible Signatures: Our Basic Construction
5.1
Deﬁnition
Here we give the deﬁnition of incompressible signatures. An incompressible sig-
nature scheme Π = (Gen, Sign, Ver) takes an additional space parameter S, and

720
J. Guan et al.
in addition to the standard model signature security (where the adversary has
unbounded space throughout the game), we also require incompressible signature
security that utilizes the following experiment for adversary A = (A1, A2):
Signature Forgery Experiment SigForgeIncomSig
A,Π
(λ):
– The adversary A1, on input 1λ, outputs a space bound 1S.
– Run Gen(1λ, 1S) to obtain keys (vk, sk).
– The adversary A1 is given the public key vk.
– For q = poly(λ) rounds, A1 submits a message m, and receives σ ←
Sign(sk, m). At the end of the last round, A1 produces a state st of size
at most S.
– The adversary A2 is given the public key vk, the state st, and all the queried
messages m, and outputs a signature σ′. If Ver(vk, σ′) outputs ⊥, output 0.
Otherwise, output 1.
Notice that traditionally, we would require Ver(vk, σ′) to be distinct from the
messages m’s queried before, but here we have no such requirement. With this
experiment in mind, we now deﬁne the additional security requirement for an
incompressible signature scheme.
Deﬁnition 7 (Incompressible Signature Security). For security parame-
ters λ and S, an incompressible signature scheme Π = (Gen, Sig, Ver) has incom-
pressible signature security, if for all PPT adversaries A = (A1, A2):
Pr
	
SigForgeIncomSig
A,Π
(λ) = 1

≤negl(λ).
5.2
Construction
We present a very simple construction from classical public key signature
schemes.
Construction 4. Let λ, S be security parameters. Given Sig = (Gen, Sign, Ver)
a classical public key signature scheme with message space {0, 1}n+Lm where
n = S + poly(λ) and rate ρ′, we construct an incompressible signature scheme
Π = (Gen, Sign, Ver) as follows:
– Gen(1λ, 1S): Run Sig.Gen(1λ) to obtain (Sig.vk, Sig.sk). Output vk = Sig.vk
and sk = Sig.sk.
– Sign(sk, m):
Sample
randomness
R
∈
{0, 1}n,
and
output
σ
←
Sig.Sign(Sig.sk, (R, m)).
– Ver(vk, σ): Run M ←Sig.Ver(Sig.vk, σ). If M = ⊥, output ⊥. Otherwise, if
M = (R, m), output m.
Sig can be computed in an low-space streaming fashion, since we can hash the
message in low space ﬁrst using Merkle-Damg˚ard. Then Construction 5 can
readily be computed with low space streaming. The rate of this construction is
Lm
Lσ
=
Lm
(S + Lm)/ρ′ = ρ′(1 + S/Lm)−1.

Incompressible Cryptography
721
5.3
Proof of Security
Theorem 5. Assuming the existence of a secure public key signature scheme
with rate ρ′, there exists an incompressible signature scheme with signature size
ρ′(S + Lm + poly(λ)), public key size poly(λ) and secret key size poly(λ). Fur-
thermore, it supports streaming computation using poly(λ) bits of memory.
Proof. We show this through a reduction proof. Concretely, we show how one
can use an adversary A = (A1, A2) that breaks the incompressible signature
security as a subroutine to build an adversary A′ the breaks the underlying
classical Sig scheme. The adversary A′ works as follows:
– Send 1λ to A1, receive 1S, and set n = S + poly(λ).
– Receive vk from the challenger, and forward it to A1.
– For each signing query mi made by A1, sample a random Ri ∈{0, 1}n and
make a query (Ri, mi) to the challenger. Receive back σi and forward it
directly to A1.
– When A1 produces a state st, send vk, st and all the signing queries {mi}i to
A2. Output what A2 outputs as σ′.
Notice that if A wins, that means Ver(vk, σ′) = (R′, m′) ̸= ⊥. If m′ ̸∈{mi}i,
then (R′, m′) is a pair not queried before by A′, and thus A′ wins the game. If
m′ = mj for some j, then we argue that with overwhelming probability R′ ̸= Rj,
and hence A′ wins as well. Indeed this is true since
H∞(Rj|st, vk, {mi}i) ≥S + poly(λ) −S = poly(λ).
Therefore Rj is unpredictable conditioned on A2’s view, so the probability of
A2 producing some R′ = Rj is negligible.
⊓⊔
6
Rate-1 Incompressible Signatures
6.1
Incompressible Encoding
Moran and Wichs [MW20] give the deﬁnition for incompressible encodings and
show construction based on either the Decisional Composite Residuosity (DCR)
or Learning With Errors (LWE) assumptions. We modify the deﬁnition slightly
to better accommodate the syntax in this paper.
Deﬁnition 8 (Incompressible
Encodings
[MW20]). Let λ be security
parameters. An incompressible encoding scheme for message space {0, 1}Lm and
codeword space {0, 1}Lc is a pair of PPT algorithms Code = (Enc, Dec) that
utilizes the following syntax:
– Enc(1λ, m) →c on input the security parameter and a message, outputs a
codeword c.
– Dec(c) →m on input a codeword, outputs the decoded message m.

722
J. Guan et al.
The “rate” of the incompressible encoding is Lm/Lc.3
We additionally require correctness and S-incompressibility4:
Deﬁnition 9 (Correctness). For all λ ∈N and m ∈M, Pr[Dec(Enc(1λ,
m)) = m] ≥1 −negl(λ).
Next, consider the following experiment for adversary A = (A1, A2):
Codeword Compression Experiment CompIncomCode
A,Code
(λ, S):
– On input 1λ, the adversary A1 submits a message m and auxiliary input aux.
It receives c ←Enc(1λ, m), and produces a state st of size at most S.
– The adversary A2 is given the state st, the message m, and the auxiliary
information aux; it produces a codeword c′. Output 1 if and only if c′ = c.
Deﬁnition 10 (S-Incompressibility). For security parameter λ, we require
that for all PPT adversary A = (A1, A2):
Pr
	
CompIncomCode
A,Code
(λ, S) = 1

≤negl(λ).
6.2
Construction
Now we show how we modify Construction 4 to get an incompressible signature
scheme with a rate of 1. Essentially we can think of the procedure of attaching
a long random string in Construction 4 as a form of an incompressible encoding
with a poor rate. Here we just need to replace it with an incompressible encoding
with a rate of 1.
Construction 5. Let λ, S be security parameters. Given Sig = (Gen, Sign, Ver)
a classical signature scheme with rate 1, and Code = (Enc, Dec) an incompress-
ible encoding scheme with rate 1 and S-incompressibility, we construct an incom-
pressible signature scheme Π = (Gen, Sign, Ver) as follows:
– Gen(1λ, 1S): Run Sig.Gen(1λ) to obtain (Sig.vk, Sig.sk). Output vk = Sig.vk
and sk = Sig.sk.
– Sign(sk, m): First compute the codeword c ←Code.Enc(1λ, m), and then com-
pute σ ←Sig.Sign(Sig.sk, c).
– Ver(vk, σ): Run c ←Sig.Ver(Sig.vk, σ). If c = ⊥, output ⊥. Otherwise, output
m ←Code.Dec(c).
The rate of our scheme is the product of the rates of the incompressible
encoding and standard-model signature scheme. We can construct a classical
signature scheme with rate 1 −o(1) from any one-way function by hashing the
message using a universal one-way hash function, and then signing the hash
value. Our incompressible signatures therefore have rate 1 −o(1), in the CRS or
random oracle model. The following is proved in the full version:
3 This is equivalent to the α-expansion property as deﬁned in [MW20] for α = Lc/Lm.
4 This is equivalent to β-incompressibility as deﬁned in [MW20] for β = S.

Incompressible Cryptography
723
Theorem 6. Assuming the existence of a secure public key signature scheme
with rate 1 and an incompressible encoding scheme with rate 1, there exists an
incompressible signature scheme with signature size Lm, public key size poly(λ)
and secret key size poly(λ). Furthermore, it supports streaming computation
using poly(λ) bits of memory, assuming either the random oracle model, or the
streaming of the CRS in the CRS model.
6.3
Equivalence to Incompressible Encoding
Lastly, we quickly show that incompressible signatures are equivalent to incom-
pressible encodings (plus one-way functions) by showing how to construct an
incompressible encoding scheme from an incompressible signature scheme.
Construction 6. Let λ be a security parameter. Given Sig = (Gen, Sign, Ver)
an incompressible signature scheme with rate 1 and small veriﬁcation keys, we
construct an incompressible encoding scheme Π = (Enc, Dec, Ver) as follows:
– Enc(1λ, m): Sample (Sig.vk, Sig.sk) ←Sig.Gen(1λ, 1S), and then compute σ ←
Sig.Sign(Sig.sk, m). Output c = (Sig.vk, σ).
– Dec(c = (Sig.vk, σ)): Simply output m ←Sig.Ver(Sig.vk, σ).
The codeword length is the signature length (equal to message length if Sig
has rate 1) plus the length of the veriﬁcation length. Hence the rate is 1 if the
veriﬁcation keys are short. Correctness follows directly from the correctness of
the signature scheme. Security also follows directly: if an adversary using a state
st of size at most S is able to produce c′ = c, then it has also produced a valid sig-
nature σ and hence wins the incompressible signature security game. Therefore,
by Construction 5 and 6, incompressible signatures and incompressible encodings
(plus one-way functions) are equivalent.
7
Constructing Rate-1 Functional Encryption
Here, we build rate-1 functional encryption (FE). For our application, we only
need one key security. However, our construction satisﬁes many-key security,
though we need indistingishability obfuscation (iO). We leave it as an open
question whether such high-rate single key FE can be built from standard tools.
Our construction is based on the techniques of Boneh and Zhandry [BZ14],
who build from iO something called private linear broadcast encryption, which
is a special case of general FE. A number of issues arise in generalizing their
construction to general functions, which we demonstrate how to handle.
7.1
Building Blocks
Deﬁnition 11 (Indistinguishability Obfuscation [BGI+01]). An indistin-
guiability obfuscator iO for a circuit class {Cλ} is a PPT uniform algorithm
satisfying the following conditions:

724
J. Guan et al.
– Functionality: For any C ∈Cλ, then with probability 1 over the choice of
C′ ←iO(1λ, C), C′(x) = C(x) for all inputs x.
– Security: For all pairs of PPT adversaries (S, D), if there exists a negligible
function α such that
Pr[∀x, C0(x) = C1(x) : (C0, C1, σ) ←S(λ)] > 1 −α(λ)
then there exists a negligible function β such that
 Pr[D(σ, iO(λ, C0)) = 1] −Pr[D(σ, iO(λ, C1)) = 1]
 < β(λ)
When Cλ is the class of all polynomial-size circuits, we simply call iO an
indistinguishability obfuscator. There are several known ways to construct indis-
tinguishability obfuscation:
– Garg et al. [GGH+13] build the ﬁrst candidate obfuscation from crypto-
graphic multilinear maps.
– Provably from novel strong circularity assumptions [BDGM20,GP21,WW20]
– Provably from “standard” assumptions [JLS21]: (sub-exponentially secure)
LWE, LPN over ﬁelds, bilinear maps, and constant-locality PRGs
Deﬁnition 12 (Puncturable PRF [BW13,KPTZ13,BGI14]). A puncturable
PRF with domain Xλ and range Yλ is a pair (Gen, Punc) where:
– Gen(1λ) outputs an eﬃciently computable function PRF : Xλ →Yλ
– Punc(PRF, x) takes as input a function PRF and an input x ∈Xλ, and outputs
a “punctured” function PRFx.
– Correctness: With probability 1 over the choice of PRF ←Gen(1λ),
PRFx(x′) =

PRF(x′)
if x′ ̸= x
⊥
if x′ = x
– Security: For all x ∈Xλ, (PRFx, PRF(x)) is computationally indistinguish-
able from (PRFx, y), where PRF ←Gen(1λ) and y ←Yλ.
Such puncturable PRFs can be built from any one-way function [GGM86].
We now give a new deﬁnition of a type of signature scheme with a single-
point binding (SPB) property. This allows, given a message m, for generating a
fake veriﬁcation key together with a signature on m. The fake veriﬁcation key
and signature should be indistinguishable from the honest case. Yet there are no
signatures on messages other than m relative to the fake veriﬁcation key. [BZ14]
implicitly constructs such signatures from iO and one-way functions, but with a
logarithmic message space, which was good enough for their special-purpose FE
scheme. In our case, we need to handle very large exponential message spaces.
The problem with [BZ14]’s approach is that the security loss is proportional to
the message space; to compensate requires assuming (sub)exponential hardness,
and also setting the security parameter to be larger than the message length.
This results in the signature size being polynomial in the message size, resulting
in a low-rate FE scheme. SPB signatures avoid the exponential loss, so we can
keep the security parameter small, resulting in a rate-1 FE scheme.

Incompressible Cryptography
725
Deﬁnition 13. A single-point binding (SPB) signature is a quadruple of algo-
rithms (Gen, Sign, Ver, GenBind) where Gen, Sign, Ver satisfy the usual properties
of a signature scheme. Additionally, we have the following:
– (vk, σ) ←GenBind(1λ, m) takes as input a message m, and produces a veriﬁ-
cation key vk and signature σ.
– For any messages m and with overwhelming probability over the choice of
(vk, σ) ←GenBind(1λ, m), Ver(vk, σ′) ∈{m, ⊥} for any σ′. That is, there is
no message m′ ̸= m such that there is a valid signature of m′ relative to vk.
– For any m, GenBind(1λ, m) and (vk, Sign(sk, m)) are indistinguishable, where
(vk, sk) ←Gen(1λ). Note that this property implies that Ver(vk, σ) accepts and
output m, when (vk, σ) ←GenBind(1λ, m).
We explain how to construct SPB signatures in the full version of the paper,
either from leveled FHE (and hence LWE), or from iO and one-way functions.
Our Rate-1 FE Scheme. We now give our rate-1 FE scheme:
Construction 7. Let iO be an indistinguishability obfuscator, Gen be a PRF,
(Gen′, Sig, Ver) a signature scheme, and PRG : {0, 1}λ →{0, 1}2λ, PRG′ :
{0, 1}λ →{0, 1}Lm be a PRG.
– Setup(1λ): Sample PRF ←Gen(1λ). Set msk = PRF and mpk = iO(1λ, PEnc),
where PEnc is the program given in Fig. 1.
– KeyGen(msk, f): output skf ←iO(1λ, PDec,f), where PDec,f is the program
given in Fig. 2.
– Enc(mpk, m): Choose a random r, and evaluate (t, v) ←mpk(r). Then parse
v = (w, u). Set c = PRG′(w) ⊕m. Next run (vk, sk) ←Gen′(1λ; u), using u as
the random coins for Gen′. Compute σ ←Sign(sk, c). Output (t, σ).
– Dec(skf, (t, σ)) = skf(t, σ)
Inputs: r
Constants: PRF
1. t ←PRG(r).
2. v ←PRF(t).
3. Output (t, v).
Fig. 1. The program PEnc.
Inputs: t, σ
Constants: PRF
1. (w, u) ←PRF(t)
2. (vk, sk) ←Gen (1λ; u).
3. c ←Ver(vk, c, σ). If c = ⊥, abort and output ⊥.
4. Output f(PRG (w) ⊕c).
Fig. 2. The program PDec,f.
Correctness follows immediately from the correctness of the various compo-
nents. Notice that the ciphertext size is Lm + poly(λ), provided the signature
scheme outputs short signatures. Therefore, construction 7 has rate 1 −o(1).
Provided the random coins for (Gen′, Sign, Ver) are independent of the mes-
sage length, PEnc has size poly(λ), independent of the message length. If Gen′, Sign
can be evaluated in a low-space streaming fashion, then so can Enc.

726
J. Guan et al.
7.2
Proof of Security
Sequence of Hybrids
– H0: This is the FE security experiment, where the bit b in the experiment is
ﬁxed to be 0. Note that in this hybrid, the challenge ciphertext is generated
as (t∗, σ∗), where r∗←{0, 1}λ, t∗←PRG(r∗), (w∗, u∗) ←PRF(t∗), x∗←
PRG′(w∗), c∗←x∗⊕m0, (vk∗, sk∗) ←Gen′(1λ; u∗), and σ∗←Sign(sk∗, c∗).
– H1: This is identical to H0, except that we now generate t∗uniformly at
random: t∗←{0, 1}2λ.
– H2: This is the same as H1, except that we change the way we generate
mpk, skf. First compute PRFt∗←Punc(PRF, t∗), (w∗, u∗) ←PRF(t∗). Then
let (vk∗, sk∗) ←Gen′(1λ; u∗) and x∗= PRG(w∗). We now compute mpk ←
iO(1λ, P punc
Enc ) and answer secret key queries with skf ←iO(1λ, P punc
Dec ). Here,
P punc
Enc
and P punc
Dec,f are the programs in Figs. 3 and 4
– H3: This is identical to H2, except that now we generate w∗, u∗uniformly at
random, instead of (w∗, u∗) ←PRF(t∗).
– H4: This is identical to H3 except that we now generate x∗uniformly at
random instead of x∗←PRG(w∗).
– H5: This is identical to H4, except for the following changes:
• We generate c∗uniformly at random at the beginning of the experiment.
• After the challenge query, we generate x∗= c∗⊕m0. Note that x∗is the
only place m0 enters the experiment.
– H6: This is identical to H5, except now we generate (vk∗, σ∗)
←
GenBind(1λ, c∗).
– H7 through H13: Hybrid H7+i is identical to H6−i, except that m0 is replaced
with m1. Thus H13 is the FE security experiment where b is ﬁxed to be 1.
Fig. 3. The program P punc
Enc . Diﬀerences from PEnc highlighted in yellow. (Color ﬁgure
onine)

Incompressible Cryptography
727
Fig. 4. The program P punc
Dec,f. Diﬀerences from PEnc,f highlighted in yellow. (Color ﬁgure
onine)
For the proofs of the hybrid arguments, please refer to the full version.
References
[ADN+10] Alwen, J., Dodis, Y., Naor, M., Segev, G., Walﬁsh, S., Wichs, D.: Public-
Key encryption in the bounded-retrieval model. In: Gilbert, H. (ed.)
EUROCRYPT 2010. LNCS, vol. 6110, pp. 113–134. Springer, Heidelberg
(2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-13190-5 6
[ADW09] Alwen, J., Dodis, Y., Wichs, D.: Leakage-resilient public-key cryptography
in the bounded-retrieval model. In: Halevi, S. (ed.) CRYPTO 2009. LNCS,
vol. 5677, pp. 36–54. Springer, Heidelberg (2009). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-642-03356-8 3
[AR99] Aumann, Y., Rabin, M.O.: Information theoretically secure communication
in the limited storage space model. In: Wiener, M. (ed.) CRYPTO 1999.
LNCS, vol. 1666, pp. 65–79. Springer, Heidelberg (1999). https://doi.org/
10.1007/3-540-48405-1 5
[BCKP14] Bitansky, N., Canetti, R., Kalai, Y.T., Paneth, O.: On virtual grey
box obfuscation for general circuits. In: Garay, J.A., Gennaro, R. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2014. LNCS, vol. 8617, pp. 108–125. Springer, Heidelberg (2014).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-44381-1 7
[BCP14] Boyle, E., Chung, K.-M., Pass, R.: On extractability obfuscation. In: Lin-
dell, Y. (ed.) TCC 2014. LNCS, vol. 8349, pp. 52–73. Springer, Heidelberg
(2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-54242-8 3
[BDGM20] Brakerski, Z., D¨ottling, N., Garg, S., Malavolta, G.: Candidate iO from
homomorphic encryption schemes. In: Canteaut, A., Ishai, Y. (eds.) EURO-
CRYPT 2020. LNCS, vol. 12105, pp. 79–109. Springer, Cham (2020).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-45721-1 4
[BGI+01] Barak, B., Goldreich, O., Impagliazzo, R., Rudich, S., Sahai, A., Vadhan,
S., Yang, K.: On the (Im)possibility of obfuscating programs. In: Kilian,
J. (ed.) CRYPTO 2001. LNCS, vol. 2139, pp. 1–18. Springer, Heidelberg
(2001). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44647-8 1

728
J. Guan et al.
[BGI14] Boyle, E., Goldwasser, S., Ivan, I.: Functional signatures and pseudoran-
dom functions. In: Krawczyk, H. (ed.) PKC 2014. LNCS, vol. 8383, pp.
501–519. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-
54631-0 29
[BK16] Biryukov, A., Khovratovich, D.: Egalitarian computing. In: Holz, T., Sav-
age, S. (eds.) USENIX Security 2016, pp. 315–326. USENIX Association
(2016)
[BKR16] Bellare, M., Kane, D., Rogaway, P.: Big-key symmetric encryption: resist-
ing key exﬁltration. In: Robshaw, M., Katz, J. (eds.) CRYPTO 2016.
LNCS, vol. 9814, pp. 373–402. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-662-53018-4 14
[BNNO11] Bendlin, R., Nielsen, J.B., Nordholt, P.S., Orlandi, C.: Lower and upper
bounds for deniable public-key encryption. In: Lee, D.H., Wang, X. (eds.)
ASIACRYPT 2011. LNCS, vol. 7073, pp. 125–142. Springer, Heidelberg
(2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-25385-0 7
[BW13] Boneh, D., Waters, B.: Constrained pseudorandom functions and their
applications. In: Sako, K., Sarkar, P. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2013. LNCS, vol.
8270, pp. 280–300. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-642-42045-0 15
[BZ14] Boneh, D., Zhandry, M.: Multiparty key exchange, eﬃcient traitor tracing,
and more from indistinguishability obfuscation. In: Garay, J.A., Gennaro,
R. (eds.) CRYPTO 2014. LNCS, vol. 8616, pp. 480–499. Springer, Heidel-
berg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-44371-2 27
[CCM98] Cachin, C., Cr´epeau, C., Marcil, J.: Oblivious transfer with a memory-
bounded receiver. In: 39th FOCS, pp. 493–502. IEEE Computer Society
Press (1998)
[CDD+07] Cash, D., Ding, Y.Z., Dodis, Y., Lee, W., Lipton, R., Walﬁsh, S.: Intrusion-
resilient key exchange in the bounded retrieval model. In: Vadhan, S.P.
(ed.) TCC 2007. LNCS, vol. 4392, pp. 479–498. Springer, Heidelberg
(2007). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-70936-7 26
[CDNO97] Canetti, R., Dwork, C., Naor, M., Ostrovsky, R.: Deniable encryption. In:
Kaliski, B.S. (ed.) CRYPTO 1997. LNCS, vol. 1294, pp. 90–104. Springer,
Heidelberg (1997). https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0052229
[CM97] Cachin,
C.,
Maurer,
U.:
Unconditional
security
against
memory-
bounded adversaries. In: Kaliski, B.S. (ed.) CRYPTO 1997. LNCS, vol.
1294, pp. 292–306. Springer, Heidelberg (1997). https://doi.org/10.1007/
BFb0052243
[DHRS04] Ding, Y.Z., Harnik, D., Rosen, A., Shaltiel, R.: Constant-round oblivi-
ous transfer in the bounded storage model. In: Naor, M. (ed.) TCC 2004.
LNCS, vol. 2951, pp. 446–472. Springer, Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-540-24638-1 25
[Din01] Ding, Y.Z.: Oblivious transfer in the bounded storage model. In: Kilian, J.
(ed.) CRYPTO 2001. LNCS, vol. 2139, pp. 155–170. Springer, Heidelberg
(2001). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44647-8 9
[DLW06] Di Crescenzo, G., Lipton, R., Walﬁsh, S.: Perfectly secure password proto-
cols in the bounded retrieval model. In: Halevi, S., Rabin, T. (eds.) TCC
2006. LNCS, vol. 3876, pp. 225–244. Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://
doi.org/10.1007/11681878 12
[DQW21] Dodis, Y., Quach, W., Wichs, D.: Speak much, remember little: cryptog-
raphy in the bounded storage model, revisited. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Report 2021/1270 (2021). https://ia.cr/2021/1270

Incompressible Cryptography
729
[DRS04] Dodis, Y., Reyzin, L., Smith, A.: Fuzzy extractors: how to generate strong
keys from biometrics and other noisy data. In: Cachin, C., Camenisch,
J.L. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2004. LNCS, vol. 3027, pp. 523–540. Springer,
Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-24676-3 31
[Dzi06a] Dziembowski, S.: Intrusion-resilience via the bounded-storage model. In:
Halevi, S., Rabin, T. (eds.) TCC 2006. LNCS, vol. 3876, pp. 207–224.
Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/10.1007/11681878 11
[Dzi06b] Dziembowski, S.: On forward-secure storage. In: Dwork, C. (ed.) CRYPTO
2006. LNCS, vol. 4117, pp. 251–270. Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://
doi.org/10.1007/11818175 15
[GGH+13] Garg, S., Gentry, C., Halevi, S., Raykova, M., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Can-
didate indistinguishability obfuscation and functional encryption for all
circuits. In: 54th FOCS, pp. 40–49. IEEE Computer Society Press (2013)
[GGM86] Goldreich, O., Goldwasser, S., Micali, S.: How to construct random func-
tions. J. ACM 33(4), 792–807 (1986)
[GP21] Gay, R., Pass, R.: Indistinguishability obfuscation from circular security.
In: Proceedings of the 53rd Annual ACM SIGACT Symposium on Theory
of Computing, STOC 2021, pp. 736–749 (2021)
[GVW12] Gorbunov, S., Vaikuntanathan, V., Wee, H.: Functional encryption with
bounded collusions via multi-party computation. In: Safavi-Naini, R.,
Canetti, R. (eds.) CRYPTO 2012. LNCS, vol. 7417, pp. 162–179. Springer,
Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-32009-5 11
[GZ19] Guan, J., Zhandary, M.: Simple schemes in the bounded storage model.
In: Ishai, Y., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2019. LNCS, vol. 11478,
pp. 500–524. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
17659-4 17
[GZ21] Guan, J., Zhandry, M.: Disappearing cryptography in the bounded stor-
age model. In: Theoretical Cryptography Conference (2021). https://ia.cr/
2021/406
[IR90] Impagliazzo, R., Rudich, S.: Limits on the provable consequences of one-
way permutations. In: Goldwasser, S. (ed.) CRYPTO 1988. LNCS, vol.
403, pp. 8–26. Springer, New York (1990). https://doi.org/10.1007/0-387-
34799-2 2
[JLS21] Jain, A., Lin, H., Sahai, A.: Indistinguishability obfuscation from well-
founded assumptions. In: Proceedings of the 53rd Annual ACM SIGACT
Symposium on Theory of Computing, STOC 2021, pp. 60–73 (2021)
[KPTZ13] Kiayias, A., Papadopoulos, S., Triandopoulos, N., Zacharias, T.: Delegat-
able pseudorandom functions and applications. In: Sadeghi, A.R., Gligor,
V.D., Yung, M. (eds.) ACM CCS 2013, pp. 669–684. ACM Press (2013)
[Lu02] Lu, C.-J.: Hyper-encryption against space-bounded adversaries from on-
line strong extractors. In: Yung, M. (ed.) CRYPTO 2002. LNCS, vol. 2442,
pp. 257–271. Springer, Heidelberg (2002). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-
45708-9 17
[Mau92] Maurer, U.M.: Conditionally-perfect secrecy and a provably-secure ran-
domized cipher. J. Cryptol. 5(1), 53–66 (1992). https://doi.org/10.1007/
BF00191321
[MST04] Moran, T., Shaltiel, R., Ta-Shma, A.: Non-interactive timestamping in the
bounded storage model. In: Franklin, M. (ed.) CRYPTO 2004. LNCS, vol.
3152, pp. 460–476. Springer, Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-540-28628-8 28

730
J. Guan et al.
[MW20] Moran, T., Wichs, D.: Incompressible encodings. In: Micciancio, D., Ris-
tenpart, T. (eds.) CRYPTO 2020. LNCS, vol. 12170, pp. 494–523. Springer,
Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-56784-2 17
[Nis90] Nisan, N.: Psuedorandom generators for space-bounded computation. In:
22nd ACM STOC, pp. 204–212. ACM Press (1990)
[Raz17] Raz, R.: A time-space lower bound for a large class of learning problems.
In: Umans, C. (ed.) 58th FOCS, pp. 732–742. IEEE Computer Society
Press (2017)
[Riv97] Rivest, R.L.: All-or-nothing encryption and the package transform. In:
Biham, E. (ed.) FSE 1997. LNCS, vol. 1267, pp. 210–218. Springer, Hei-
delberg (1997). https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0052348
[Vad03] Vadhan, S.P.: On constructing locally computable extractors and cryp-
tosystems in the bounded storage model. In: Boneh, D. (ed.) CRYPTO
2003. LNCS, vol. 2729, pp. 61–77. Springer, Heidelberg (2003). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-45146-4 4
[Wic13] Wichs, D.: Barriers in cryptography with weak, correlated and leaky
sources. In: Kleinberg, R.D. (ed.) ITCS 2013, pp. 111–126. ACM (2013)
[WW20] Wee, H., Wichs, D.: Candidate obfuscation via oblivious LWE sampling.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/1042 (2020). https://eprint.iacr.
org/2020/1042
[Zav15] Zaverucha, G.: Stronger password-based encryption using all-or-nothing
transforms (2015)

