Laconic Function Evaluation, Functional
Encryption and Obfuscation for RAMs
with Sublinear Computation
Fangqi Dong1(B), Zihan Hao1, Ethan Mook2, and Daniel Wichs2,3
1 IIIS, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China
{dfq20,haozh20}@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn
2 Northeastern University, Boston, USA
mook.e@northeastern.edu, wichs@ccs.neu.edu
3 NTT Research, Sunnyvale, USA
Abstract. Laconic function evaluation (LFE) is a “ﬂipped” version of
fully homomorphic encryption, where the server performing the com-
putation gets the output. The server commits itself to a function f by
outputting a small digest. Clients can later eﬃciently encrypt inputs x
with respect to the digest in much less time than computing f, and ensure
that the server only decrypts f(x), but does not learn anything else about
x. Prior works constructed LFE for circuits under LWE, and for Tur-
ing Machines (TMs) from indistinguishability obfuscation (iO). In this
work we introduce LFE for Random-Access Machines (RAM-LFE). The
server commits itself to a potentially huge database y via a short digest.
Clients can later eﬃciently encrypt inputs x with respect to the digest
and the server decrypts f(x, y) for some speciﬁed RAM program f (e.g.,
a universal RAM), without learning anything else about x. The main
advantage of RAM-LFE is that the server’s decryption run-time only
scales with the RAM run-time T of the computation f(x, y), which can
be sublinear in both |x| and |y|. We consider a weakly eﬃcient variant,
where the client’s run-time is also allowed to scale linearly with T, but
not |y|, and a fully eﬃcient variant, where the client’s run-time must be
sublinear in both T and |y|. We construct the former from doubly eﬃ-
cient private information retrieval (DEPIR) and laconic OT (LOT), both
of which are known from RingLWE, and the latter from an additional
use of iO. We then show how to leverage fully eﬃcient RAM-LFE to
also get (many-key) functional encryption for RAMs (RAM-FE) where
secret keys are associate with big databases y and the decryption time is
sublinear in |y|, as well as iO for RAMs where the obfuscated program
contains a big database y and the evaluation time is sublinear in |y|.
1
Introduction
Laconic Function Evaluation. Laconic function evaluation (LFE), introduced
by Quach, Wee and Wichs [QWW18], can be seen as a “ﬂipped” version of
Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material
available at https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-58723-8 7.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2024
M. Joye and G. Leander (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2024, LNCS 14652, pp. 190–218, 2024.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-58723-8_7

LFE, FE and Obfuscation for RAMs with Sublinear Computation
191
fully homomorphic encryption (FHE). Consider a powerful server who has some
function f and a weak client who holds an input x, but does not have the
computational power to run f. They want to run a 2-round protocol to compute
f(x) without revealing x to the server. FHE provides a solution where the client
learns f(x), while LFE provides one where the server learns f(x).
In more detail, in an LFE scheme, the server computes a short digest digf
that commits it to the function f. The client encrypts an input x using the digest
digf, and the server decrypts the ciphertext to recover f(x). Security ensures that
the server does not learn anything about x beyond f(x). This is formalized by
requiring the ciphertext to be simulatable given only f(x). Eﬃciency requires
that the encryption time is smaller than simply computing f.1
For example, consider a scenario where the FBI has a database of most-
wanted suspects. There are many security cameras in public spaces, and we
want to allow the FBI to learn when one of the suspects passes in front of
one of the cameras, but not to learn anything else about what the cameras are
observing. LFE gives a simple non-interactive solution to this problem. The FBI
publishes a digest digf for the function f that contains a hard-coded database
of suspects and, on input an image x, it outputs whether x has a match in the
database. The cameras have the digest digf, periodically capture images x of
their surroundings, encrypt them using this digest, and send the ciphertexts to
the FBI.
LFE has many applications, such as MPC where the online run-time of the
parties is sublinear in the complexity of the function being computed. Further-
more, as shown in [QWW18], it implies 1-key succinct functional encryption,
which in turn implies succinct reusable garbled circuits [GKP+13] as a special
case.
Prior Work on LFE. The prior work of [QWW18] constructed leveled LFE for
circuits under the LWE assumption. In particular, if the function f is represented
by a boolean circuit of size |f| and depth d, then the server’s run-time (to
generate the digest and to decrypt) is |f| · poly(d), the size of the digest is O(1),
and the client’s run-time (to encrypt) is |x| · poly(d). A recent work of [DGM23]
constructed LFE for Turing Machines assuming indistinguishability obfuscation
and somewhere statistically binding hash functions. The main advantage is that
1 It is known that LFE schemes require a common reference/random string (CRS);
for simplicity we largely omit it from the discussion in the introduction. Also, by
default we require that the digest is derived deterministically given f, which is a
crucial feature for some applications. In this case, the digest cannot fully hide f,
and we do not require any “function hiding” security. However, [QWW18] showed a
generic transformation to achieve function hiding at the cost of having a randomized
procedure to generate the digest. The security guarantee implicitly assumes a semi-
honest server that computes digf correctly. If the function f is public, anyone can
audit the digest by re-computing it to check that it is correct, or the server can
provide a SNARG (for P) that it was computed correctly. If f is secret, the server
can still provide a SNARK (for NP) that f belongs to some restricted class of
functions deemed safe.

192
F. Dong et al.
computing the digest is more eﬃcient than computing the function. In particular,
for a function f represented as a Turing Machine of size |f| and run-time T, the
server’s run-time to generate a digest is O(|f|), the size of the digest is O(1), the
client’s run-time (to encrypt) is O(|x|), and the server’s run-time to decrypt is
O(T).2
RAM Computation and RAM-FHE. A major limitation, aﬀecting prior LFE and
FHE constructions, is that the server’s run-time scales with the circuit size of the
computation, which may potentially be much larger than the natural run-time
of the computation in the random-access machine (RAM) model. In particular,
consider a function fy(x) = f(x, y) that depends on some large database y held
by the server. Then the server’s run-time in FHE/LFE for fy will be at least
linear in y (and in x), even if the function can be computed in vastly smaller
sublinear time in the RAM model. For example, in the FBI scenario mentioned
above, the FBI’s computation to decrypt each LFE ciphertext would be linear in
the database of suspects, even though more eﬃcient sublinear time algorithms
for image comparison are possible [Gra10]. The recent work of Lin, Mook and
Wichs [LMW22] (see also [HHWW19]) showed how to get around this limitation
in the context of FHE, by constructing a RAM-FHE scheme where the server
preprocesses the database y once ahead of time, but can then homomorphically
evaluate f(x, y) over various encrypted inputs x in time that only scales with
the (worst-case) RAM run-time of f. The main tool in their construction is
doubly eﬃcient private information retrieval (DEPIR), which allows the server
to deterministically preprocess a database y into some data structure y and later
run (2-round) PIR protocols with various clients, where both the server and client
run-times are only polylogarithmic in the database size. Constructions of both
RAM-FHE and DEPIR were given under the RingLWE assumption.
RAM-LFE and Our Results. In this work we extend LFE to the RAM setting,
and deﬁne the new notion of RAM-LFE, analogously to RAM-FHE. In a RAM-
LFE scheme, the server holds some large database y and produces a short digest
digy that commits it to y, along with a large data-structure y that it holds locally
and uses during decryption. The client encrypts x using the digest digy and the
server decrypts the ciphertext using the data-structure y to recover f(x, y), where
f is some ﬁxed RAM program (e.g., a universal RAM) with boolean output.3 As
with standard LFE, security ensures that the ciphertext hides everything about
x beyond the output f(x, y), as formalized via the simulation paradigm.
2 Throughout the introduction we omit ﬁxed polynomial factors in the security param-
eter or polyogarithmic terms. We also restrict to boolean functions with 1-bit output.
3 We rely on the above formulation for simplicity in the intro, but it is equivalent
to formulations where the client or the server chooses the program f since we can
always embed the code of the actual program to be executed inside either x or y.
Our technical deﬁnition allows the client to choose the program, but this is just for
notational convenience. We also require the procedure that maps y to (digy, y) to
be deterministic and do not require digy to fully hide y. However, we can generi-
cally apply the transformation of [QWW18] to fully hide y at the cost of having a
randomized procedure.

LFE, FE and Obfuscation for RAMs with Sublinear Computation
193
For eﬃciency, we assume the client knows some upper-bound on the RAM
run-time T of the computation at encryption time, and we denote the actual
RAM run-time of f(x, y) by t ≤T. We consider two notions of eﬃciency that we
call weak eﬃciency and full eﬃciency. Roughly speaking weak eﬃciency allows
the client’s run time to scale with T but not with |y|, while full eﬃciency doesn’t
allow it to scale with either T or |y|. Our results are as follows:
– Weak Eﬃciency: Assuming DEPIR and laconic OT [CDG+17] (both of which
follow from RingLWE), we construct a RAM-LFE scheme where, for any
constant ε > 0:
• The size of the common random string is O(1).
• The server’s run-time to generate digy, y is O(|y|1+ε). The size of digy is
O(1) and the size of y is O(|y|1+ε).
• The client’s encryption run-time and the ciphertext size is O(|x| + T).
• The server’s decryption run-time given random-access to y and to the
ciphertext is just O(t).
– Full Eﬃciency: Assuming DEPIR, laconic OT, and iO, we construct a RAM-
LFE scheme with the same parameters as above, except that the client’s
encryption run-time and the ciphertext size is just O(|x|).
We remark that we assume the RAM program f can have random-access to
both x and y as well as to any additional read/write random access memory. In
particular, T, t can both be sublinear in |x| and |y|. Note that, in the full eﬃciency
setting, we can remove the restriction that the client knows an upper bound on
the computation run-time T at encryption time, and instead have the client
try all possible powers of 2: T = 2, 4, . . . , 2ω(log λ) up to some super-polynomial
upper bound, and the server tries each one in order until the ﬁrst that completes.
However, this comes at the cost of needing to assume slightly super-polynomial
security level of the underlying assumptions since our reduction has a security
loss of O(T). Also, the above results hold for boolean functions f that output
1 bit. We can generically extend this to arbitrary output size m by incurring a
multiplicative factor in m for the encryption time and the decryption time. (We
also sketch at how to optimize this to only incur an additive factor in m with
some additional eﬀort.)
Remarks on RAM-LFE. We note that RAM-LFE implies 3-round DEPIR (in
the CRS model), and therefore it is not surprising that we need to rely on DEPIR
as a building block.4
4 In particular, consider the RAM program f(x, y) that interprets x = (i, b) as an
index i and a bit b and outputs y[i] ⊕b denoting the i’th location of y one-time
padded with b. This program runs in time T = O(1). Using a RAM-LFE for f
we can construct a 3-round DEPIR as follows. The server preprocesses y to derive
digy, y. To privately retrieve y[i], the server/client run the following 3 round protocol:
In the ﬁrst round, the server sends digy to the client, in the second round the client
encrypts x = (i, b) with b ←{0, 1} chosen uniformly at random under the LFE and
sends the ciphertext, and in the third round the server decrypts the ciphertext and
sends y[i]⊕b to the client who removes the pad to recover y[i]. LFE security ensures
that the servers view can be simulated given y[i]⊕b, which is uniformly random and
therefore reveals no information about the client’s index i.

194
F. Dong et al.
RAM-LFE with weak eﬃciency is conceptually similar to garbled RAM
[LO13,GHL+14]. In a garbled RAM scheme, the client garbles a database y
and sends the garbled version y to a server. Later the client garbles some pro-
gram f(x, ·) and sends the garbled program to the server who can evaluate the
garbled program over the garbled database to recover f(x, y), but cannot learn
anything else about x, y. In both garbled RAM and RAM-LFE with weak eﬃ-
ciency, the client’s run time to garble f(x, ·) (resp. encrypt x) and the server’s
run-time to evaluate the garbled program (resp. decrypt) scale with the RAM
run-time of the computation T. The main diﬀerence is that, in garbled RAM, the
database y belongs to a single client and only that designated client can create
garbled programs f(x, ·) that the server can execute over this database to learn
f(x, y), while in RAM-LFE the database y belongs to the server and once the
server publishes digy, any client can encrypt inputs x to allow the server to learn
f(x, y). One can think of the diﬀerence between garbled RAM and RAM-LFE
with weak eﬃciency as the diﬀerence between ORAM and DEPIR; the former
only allows a single designated client to privately access her own remotely stored
data, while the latter allows any arbitrary client to privately access the server’s
data. Note that RAM-LFE with weak eﬃciency is a generalization that implies
garbled RAM as a special case.5
Analogously, RAM-LFE with full eﬃciency is conceptually similar to succinct
garbled RAM [GHRW14,CHJV15,CH16,BCG+18,JLL23], which requires the
client’s run-time to garble f(x, ·) to be independent of the RAM run-time T. The
main diﬀerence is that RAM-LFE allows for computations over the server’s data
y, while succinct garbled RAM only allows for computations over the designated
client’s previously garbled data y. It is again easy to show that RAM-LFE with
full eﬃciency is a generalization that implies succinct garbled RAM as a special
case. All known construction of succinct garbled RAM rely on iO and therefore
it is not surprising that we need to rely on iO as a building block.
Application: Functional Encryption for RAMs. LFE is also very related to (1-
key) functional encryption (FE). The main diﬀerence is that FE requires some
trusted third party to create a master public key mpk for the client and a secret
key skf for the server: the client encrypts x under mpk and the server decrypts
with skf to recover f(x). In contrast, LFE allows the server itself to create the
digest digf that the client uses to encrypt x; the server does not need any secret
key to decrypt the ciphertext and can recover f(x) using only knowledge of f.
The work of [QWW18] showed that LFE generically implies succinct 1-key FE
and the construction there directly extends to the RAM setting and preserves
weak/full eﬃciency.
5 Garbled RAM has weaker functionality in that the database y must be preprocessed
by the client, but then provides stronger security by ensuring that y is hidden from
the server. However, it is easy to also use RAM-LFE to achieve the stronger security
guarantee by having the client encrypt the database y via one-time pad derived from
a PRF, and then include the PRF key as part of the encrypted input x and have
the program execution use the PRF to decrypt each bit it reads from the database.

LFE, FE and Obfuscation for RAMs with Sublinear Computation
195
What about multi-key FE? A recent work of [ACFQ22] constructed a variant
of multi-key FE for RAMs from functional encryption for circuits (which is
equivalent to iO up to a sub-exponential security loss) and DEPIR. This may
appear highly related to our notion. However, beyond the distinction of FE vs
LFE, there is an even more crucial distinction between our work and [ACFQ22]
in the type of RAM setting considered. The latter thinks of the server (decryptor)
as having a short RAM program f and only the client has some large data x that
is encrypted such that the server can decrypt f(x), where f has random access
to x. In particular, their notion does not allow the program f to have random-
access to a large server input y. In contrast, our RAM-LFE setting envisions
the server as also having some potentially large y and the computation f(x, y)
has random-access to both x and y. Arguably, allowing the decryption run-time
to be sublinear in the server’s input y is more crucial than making it sublinear
in the client’s input x, since anyway the server needs to spend linear time in x
just to download the ciphertext from the client. We deﬁne a notion of FE for
RAMs (RAM-FE), analogous to our notion of RAM-LFE, where the server gets
a secret key sky tied to some potentially large input y, the client encrypts an
input x, and the server decrypts f(x, y) where f is some ﬁxed RAM program
(e.g., a universal RAM) with random-access to both x and y. We then show how
to use RAM-LFE with full eﬃciency together with FE for circuits to construct
multi-key RAM-FE.
Application: iO for RAMs. We also explore the notion of indistinguishability
obfuscation for RAM programs with huge data (RAM-iO). In this setting, we
consider obfuscating a RAM program f(·, y) containing some potentially huge
data y and having worst-case run-time T for some ﬁxed input length n. The
obfuscated program f(·, y) contains obfuscated data y.6 On any input x ∈{0, 1}n
it should be possible to evaluate f(x, y) = f(x, y) in time that scales propor-
tionally to T but can be sublinear in |y|.7 Indistinguishability security requires
that for any two functionally equivalent program/data tuples f(·, y), f ′(·, y′) such
that f(x, y) = f ′(x, y′) for all x ∈{0, 1}n, the obfuscation of f(·, y) is compu-
tationally indistinguishable from that of f ′(·, y′). We show how to generically
construct iO for RAMs using iO for circuits and RAM-LFE with full eﬃciency
(both with sub-exponential security).
We compare to the prior work of [BCG+18] on iO for RAMs. In that work, the
obfuscated program f does not contain any large data y and there is no attempt
to achieve sublinear run-time. Instead, the goal is just to (1) minimize the size of
the obfuscated program to be proportional to the RAM/TM description length
rather than circuit size of f and (2) to achieve the potential quadratic savings of
evaluating f(x) in the RAM model with random access to read/write memory
6 We can simply think of f as just being a universal RAM and all the actual code as
being contained in y.
7 Note that we cannot achieve sublinear run-time in |x| since it is not preprocessed in
this setting. Hence if evaluation reads only a subset of the positions of x that would
reveal additional information about the computation.

196
F. Dong et al.
over thinking of f as TM or circuit. While our work achieves (1) and (2), our
main focus is sublinear run-time.
1.1
Our Techniques
As our starting point, we want to take prior (succinct/not succinct) garbled
RAM schemes and transform them into (resp. fully eﬃcient/weakly eﬃcient)
RAM-LFE. The main diﬃculty is how to incorporate the server’s input y into
the computation. The constructions of garbled RAM consist of 2 steps: (1) con-
struct a scheme with unprotected memory and access (UMA), where the memory
data and the access pattern of the computation are revealed to the server, but the
program remains hidden, (2) hide the data and the access pattern using obliv-
ious RAM (ORAM) [GO96]. The ﬁrst issue is that, already in step (1), even
though the data and the access pattern are not protected, many garbled RAM
constructions still need to garble all the data using a secret key held by the client.
Therefore these constructions don’t allow us to incorporate the server’s input y,
which is preprocessed publicly by the server, into the computations. However, it
turns out that some of the more recent constructions of garbled RAM based on
laconic OT do achieve UMA security while allowing the data to be preprocessed
publicly. In fact, the preprocessing simply computes a “laconic OT digest” of
the data. Therefore such schemes give us RAM-LFE with unprotected memory
and access. The second issue comes from step (2), which protects the memory
access pattern via ORAM. Unfortunately, ORAM can only be used to protect
client data that is encoded using a secret key held by the client, and therefore
cannot be used to protect the access pattern to the server’s data y. Instead, we
replace ORAM by DEPIR to protect the access pattern to y. While this is the
high-level template, instantiating it correctly is quite subtle. One of the bigger
diﬃculties that comes up is that, in the case of succinct garbled RAM needed
for fully eﬃcient RAM-LFE, part (1) only achieves an indistinguishability-based
notion of UMA security, where the server cannot distinguish between two gar-
bled programs with the same output and the same access pattern. Upgrading
such schemes into simulation-secure ones with full security requires a complex
hybrid argument using a special type of ORAM with “localized randomness”
[CH16]. We show how to adapt this type of argument using DEPIR as well.
Our techniques borrow heavily from recent prior works on garbled circuits, gar-
bled RAMs, succinct garbled TMs, FE for RAMs and succinct garbled RAMs;
see e.g., [CDG+17,GS18a,GOS18,GS18b,ACFQ22,DGM23]. These schemes are
quite involved and combine many diﬀerent elements (laconic OT, garbled cir-
cuits, pebbling games, ORAM, and iO) via a subtle and brittle security proofs.
Essentially, we show how to correctly combine these techniques together with
DEPIR to upgrade the prior results into RAM-LFE schemes. Part of our con-
tribution is to ﬁnd the right abstractions for how to encapsulate prior results
in a way that allows us to extend them to our setting. We sketch some of our
techniques for RAM-LFE with weak eﬃciency and full eﬃciency respectively.
Then we discuss our applications to FE and iO.

LFE, FE and Obfuscation for RAMs with Sublinear Computation
197
RAM-LFE with Weak Eﬃciency. This case turns out to be relatively simple.
The scheme of [CDG+17] for “non-interactive secure computation in RAM Set-
ting (RAM-NISC)” can already almost be thought of as a RAM-LFE with weak
eﬃciency and with unprotected memory access (UMA) security. In particular,
it allows the server to publish a short digest digy of y, the client to eﬃciently
encrypt x using this digest, and the server to decrypt f(x, y). The eﬃciency
requirements are similar to RAM-LFE with weak-eﬃciency (except for one
caveat mentioned below). Security states that the server learns nothing more
than the output f(x, y) and the memory access pattern of the computation.
The construction of [CDG+17] works by combining updatable laconic oblivious
transfer (LOT) and garbled circuits. At a high level the digest is an LOT digest
of the data y. For a computation of f with run-time T, the client’s ciphertext
is a sequence of O(T) garbled circuits that have x hard-coded and perform the
computation of f while using LOT for random-access to the data y as well as
any additional read/write memory. The main diﬀerences between RAM-NISC
and our notion of RAM-LFE with UMA security are as follows:
– A minor diﬀerence is that in the RAM-NISC scheme the computation of the
digest is randomized and the digest hides y. As discussed earlier, we chose to
make our default deﬁnition require a deterministic digest generation and not
require hiding security (and rely on the fact that the latter can be generically
upgraded to the former).
To bridge this gap, we simply remove the part of their scheme that implicitly
performs this upgrade.
– While the RAM-NISC scheme allows f to have random-access to y, it thinks
of x as a short input and does not allow random access to it. In particular, x
is hard-coded in the garbled circuits and therefore decryption scales linearly
in |x|.
To bridge this gap, we can think of the client’s input x as being treated
similarly to y. The client encrypts x via a symmetric-key encryption and
computes an LOT digest of it. The garbled circuits use LOT to make random-
access queries to the encrypted x and decrypt the resulting bits.
With the above modiﬁcations, we get RAM-LFE with UMA security, where
the server’s view can be simulated given the output and the memory access
pattern of the computation. To upgrade to full security, we simply use DEPIR
to hide the access pattern to y and ORAM to hide the access pattern to x
and any read/write memory. In particular the server initially applies DEPIR
preprocessing on its input y to get y and computes the digest of y using the
UMA scheme. The client initially puts its input x inside an ORAM x and we
then run a UMA scheme for the function f(x, y) that runs f but uses ORAM
queries to x to privately access x and any read/write memory, and DEPIR queries
on y to privately access y.
RAM-LFE with Full Eﬃciency. As in the previous case, we start by constructing
RAM-LFE with UMA security and then upgrade to full security. Our idea is
to start with a construction of succinct garbled RAM that has a very similar

198
F. Dong et al.
structure to the above RAM-NISC scheme, but gets a succinct ciphertext size
and eﬃcient encryption using iO: instead of the client computing the sequence
of O(T) garbled circuits, the client creates an obfuscated program that on input
i outputs the i’th garbled circuit. Analyzing security using iO is however quite
involved and requires a careful sequence of hybrids making small local changes
to the garbled circuits. While the ideas to do so appeared in several prior works,
(e.g.,) [BCG+18,GS18a,GOS18,GS18b,ACFQ22], we cannot use these results
as a black box. Instead, we start with the work of [ACFQ22], which gets the
closest to what we need, and modify it. In particular, that work constructs a
succinct garbled RAM, where a client holds a database x and RAM program
P. The client ﬁrst processes the database x into some garbled database x and
stores some associated secret key sk. Then the client can use sk to garble the
program. A server can then recover P(x) by evaluating the garbled program on
the garbled database. The work of [ACFQ22] ﬁrst constructs this in the UMA
setting and then upgrades to full security. In the UMA model of security, the
server learns nothing about P other than its access pattern and output when
evaluated on x. We observe that in the UMA setting, the prepocessing of x
is actually public/deterministic and the “secret key” sk is just an LOT digest.
Therefore, the server can apply the same preprocessing on its input y and and
we can think of the program P(x, y) as having random-access to both the client’s
value and the server’s value as an input.
To upgrade from UMA security to full security is conceptually similar to
the weakly eﬃcient case: we encrypt the client’s database and hide the access
patterns to x and y under an ORAM and DEPIR respectively. However, analyz-
ing security is signiﬁcantly more complicated. The main reason is that the fully
eﬃcient RAM LFE with UMA security can only achieve an indistinguishability-
based notion of UMA, where the server cannot distinguish between ciphertexts
that yield the same output and the exact same access pattern. This is in con-
trast to the weakly eﬃcient case, which allowed for simulation security where
the ciphertext can be simulated given the output and the access pattern. Using
the indistinguishability based notion of UMA is more diﬃcult. Essentially we
need a sequence of hybrids that make only local changes to the access pattern.
We use the techniques of [CH16] using “ORAM with localized randomness”
along with punctured programming. We do so in two steps. In the ﬁrst step we
upgrade to a security notion where we hide the content of the client’s database
x and the contents of read/write memory, but where the pattern of addresses
accessed are still unprotected. Then we show how to go from this intermediate
notion to full (simulation-based) RAM-LFE security. The main observation is
that the use of DEPIR works well with these techniques – since every access uses
fresh/independent random coins, it essentially already satisﬁes a notion akin to
the “localized randomness” needed in ORAM.
Application to FE. We show how to use fully eﬃcient RAM-LFE to also con-
struct RAM-FE where secret keys are associated with large databases y and the
decryption time is sublinear in y. In particular, a key generation authority gen-
erates a master public key mpk and a master secret key msk. Using msk it can

LFE, FE and Obfuscation for RAMs with Sublinear Computation
199
generate secret keys sky corresponding to some potentially large databases y for
various servers. A client uses the master public-key to encrypt an input x and
any server with secret key sky should only decrypt the output f(x, y) for some
ﬁxed RAM program f (e.g., the universal RAM). We consider security against
an adversary that can see many keys sky1, . . . , skyq. In this setting simulation-
based security is unachievable [AGVW13], and instead we must opt for indis-
tinguishability based security where the adversary cannot distinguish between
encryptions of x vs x′ as long as f(x, yi) = f(x′, yi) for all i ∈[q]. Assuming
standard functional encryption for circuits and fully eﬃcient RAM-LFE (with
some augmentations supported by our construction, as discussed below) we get
a RAM-FE scheme where, for any constant ε > 0, generating (mpk, msk) takes
O(1) time, generating sky takes time |y|1+ε encrypting x takes time |x|1+ε and
decrypting f(x, y) takes time O(t) where t is the RAM run-time of f. The high-
level idea is to use FE for circuits for the circuit that, on input x, generates the
RAM-LFE encryption of x under the digest of y. One issue is that the circuit
FE only satisﬁes indistinguishability based security and we overcome this via
relatively standard (but non-trivial) output-programming tricks. This gives a
scheme that achieve sublinear eﬃciency in y but not in x. To get sublinear eﬃ-
ciency in x we also observe that in our fully eﬃcient RAM-LFE, the encryption
of x can be split into two components: a digest-independent component that’s
at least linear in x, and a short digest-dependent component that’s sublienar in
x. We therefore have the client compute the digest-independent component as
part of the RAM-FE ciphertext, and only use the circuit FE to compute the
digest-dependent component.
Application to iO. We show how to use fully eﬃcient RAM-LFE to also construct
iO for RAMs (RAM-iO). Here we want to obfuscate a RAM program f(·, y) con-
taining some large database y. We assume the program has some ﬁxed input sizes
and run-time T. The obfuscation procedure should run in time linear in y, but
sublinear in T, while evaluating the obfuscated program should run in time linear
in T but sublinear in y. We want standard indistinguishability security guaran-
teeing that the obfuscations of any functionally equivalent f(·, y) ≡f ′(·, y′) are
computationally indistinguishable. We construct such RAM-iO using iO for cir-
cuits and RAM-LFE. The high-level idea is to encrypt y using a symmetric-key
encryption with key k, and preprocess the ciphertext using DEPIR to get digy, y.
The we use iO for circuits that on input x generates a RAM-LFE encryption
of (k, x) for the modiﬁed function f ′((k, x), Enck(y)) that computes f(x, y) by
making random-access to the bits of the ciphertext and decrypting the answers.
The obfuscated RAM program consists of y and the obfuscated circuit. Again,
this high-level idea does not work as is since the iO for circuits only provides
indistinguishability based security. We show to how make it work by using punc-
turing/programming tricks. Unfortunately, we need a sequence of 2|x| hybrids,
where we reprogram the output of the obfuscated circuit for every input x one
by one. This comes at the cost of relying on sub-exponential security of the
underlying components. However, iO constructions from falsiﬁable assumptions

200
F. Dong et al.
anyway already rely on sub-exponential assumptions [JLS21,JLS22] and hence
this cost was needed already anyway.
1.2
Organization
In this conference version of this paper, we focus on our constructions of RAM-
LFE in the weak and strong eﬃciency settings. In Sect. 3 we formally deﬁne
RAM-LFE. In Sect. 4 we construct RAM-LFE for the weaker security notion
of unprotected memory and access. In Sect. 5 we show how to upgrade from
this weaker notion of security to full RAM-LFE security. We defer our formal
constructions of RAM-FE and RAM-iO to the full version [DHMW24].
2
Preliminaries
Deﬁne N = {0, 1, 2, . . .} to be the set of natural numbers. For any integer n ≥1,
deﬁne [n] = {1, . . . , n}. For an array A ∈{0, 1}n, we index the array from
1, and A[i] denotes the bit in position i ∈[n]. By default, all our logarithms
are base 2 and log n stands for log2 n. A function ν : N →N is said to be
negligible, denoted ν(n) = negl(n), if for every positive polynomial p(·) and all
suﬃciently large n it holds that ν(n) < 1/p(n). We use the abbreviation PPT
for probabilistic polynomial time. For a ﬁnite set S, we write a ←S to mean
a is sampled uniformly randomly from S. For a randomized algorithm A, we
let a ←A(·) denote the process of running A(·) and assigning the outcome to
a; when A is deterministic, we write a := A(·) instead. We denote the security
parameter by λ. For two distributions X, Y parameterized by λ we say that they
are computationally indistinguishable, denoted by X ≈c Y if for every PPT
distinguisher D we have | Pr[D(X) = 1] −Pr[D(Y ) = 1]| = negl(λ).
We refer the reader to the full version [DHMW24] for the formal deﬁnitions
of all of the cryptographic primitives we use in our constructions.
3
Laconic Function Evaluation for RAM Programs
In this section we deﬁne Laconic Function Evaluation for RAM Programs (RAM-
LFE). At a high level, a RAM-LFE is a protocol between a server who holds
a public database y and a client who holds a private database x and a private
RAM program P. The protocol begins with the server committing itself to y
by compressing it down to some short digest that it sends to the client. Then,
the client is able to use this digest to encrypt its inputs P and x and produce
a ciphertext ct, in a process that doesn’t depend on the size of y. Finally using
its database and the ciphertext, the server can decrypt the ciphertext to recover
the output of the RAM program P(x, y) without learning anything else about P
or x. Moreover, this decryption process should run in time that is roughly linear
in the RAM run time of evaluating P(x, y) in the clear. We note that during the
protocol we do not allow P to make updates to the server’s database that would
persist to later executions of the protocol.

LFE, FE and Obfuscation for RAMs with Sublinear Computation
201
3.1
RAM Model
Before we can formally deﬁne RAM-LFE, we ﬁrst specify the model we use for
RAM computation in this work. We consider RAM programs P that take two
inputs x and y. Because we will ultimately model y as the server’s database
and we don’t permit persistent updates to y, we think of y as being stored in
read-only memory, and x is stored in read/write enabled memory which has a
larger size to include both the data content and some additional empty cells
at the end portion of database. We note that we make this choice without loss
of generality because any program that makes updates to y can be converted
into one that stores its edits in a working memory that is located in the end
portion of x with only little overhead. Evaluation of a RAM program consists of
a sequence of steps, where in each step the program reads one memory cell each
from x and y and writes one cell to x.
Formally, a RAM program P is deﬁned by a tuple (C, Q, T, nx, ny, Σ, Z),
where C is a binary circuit called the step circuit that deﬁnes a transition func-
tion C : Q × Σ2 →(Q × [nx] × [ny] × (Σ × [nx])) ∪Z, Q is a set of states,
T ∈N is an upper bound on the number of steps the computation will take,
nx and ny are upper bounds on the sizes of the inputs x and y respectively,
Σ is a set deﬁning the alphabet of symbols that can appear in a memory cell,
and Z is the set of possible outputs. Throughout this work we exclusively con-
sider Z = {0, 1}. Unless otherwise speciﬁed, we identify Q with a set of binary
strings having length polynomial in the security parameter, and we assume that
Σ = {0, 1}.
Evaluation of a RAM program P = (C, Q, T, nx, ny, Σ, Z) on inputs x and y
proceeds iteratively as follows. We begin by initializing st0 ∈Q to the all zeros
string and arbitrarily initializing v0
x, v0
y ∈Σ. For each t ∈[T]:
1. Evaluate the step circuit to obtain out = C(stt−1, vt−1
x
, vt−1
y
).
2. If out = z ∈Z, halt and output z. Otherwise, parse out = (stt, it
x, it
y, jt
x, wt)
and continue.
3. Write x[jt
x] = wt to x.
4. Read values vt
x = x[it
x] and vt
y = y[it
y] from x and y respectively.
If the computation halts in step 2 after t steps, then we write P(x, y) = z and
say its run time is t, otherwise we write P(x, y) = ⊥and the program has run
time T.
For a RAM program P
= (C, Q, T, nx, ny, Σ, Z) we deﬁne md(P) =
(|C|, Q, T, nx, ny, Σ, Z) to denote all of the metadata associate with a RAM
program. We write |P| = |C|, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, we assume that
|P| = poly(λ, log T, log nx, log ny).
Remark 1 (Uniform vs non-uniform computation). We note that the above is a
non-uniform model of computation, where the size and description of the step
circuit necessarily depend on the lengths |x| and |y|. We can implicitly assume
that the step circuit C and time upper bound T are eﬃciently computable by
a Turing machine that is given the database sizes as input. This ﬁts our setting

202
F. Dong et al.
as we can assume without loss of generality that the digest of the servers input
contains the length |y| and thus the client knows both |x| and |y| when it needs
to specify the description of the RAM program.
3.2
Deﬁnition
Deﬁnition 1 (RAM-LFE).
A laconic function evaluation for RAM programs (RAM-LFE) is a tuple of
algorithms (LFE.Gen, LFE.Hash, LFE.Enc, LFE.Dec) that has the following syntax:
– crs ←LFE.Gen(1λ): Given the security parameter 1λ, the generation algorithm
returns a common reference string crs.
– (dig, y) := LFE.Hash(crs, y): Given the common reference string crs and the
database y, the compression algorithm deterministically outputs a short digest
dig and a preprocessed database y.
– ct ←LFE.Enc(crs, dig, P, x): Given the common reference string crs, the digest
dig, a RAM program P, and a secret input database x, the encoding algorithm
returns a ciphertext ct.
– z := LFE.Dec(crs, y, ct): Given the common reference string crs, the prepro-
cessed database y, and a ciphertext ct, the decoding algorithm returns a RAM
program output z ∈{0, 1}.
We require the algorithms to satisfy the following correctness and security
properties.
Correctness: We require that for all λ ∈N, for databases D ∈{0, 1}N, and all
messages input x ∈{0, 1}n it holds that
Pr
⎡
⎢⎢⎢⎣z = P(x, y)

crs ←LFE.Gen(1λ)
(dig, y) := LFE.Hash(crs, y)
ct ←LFE.Enc(crs, dig, P, x)
z := LFE.Dec(crs, y, ct)
⎤
⎥⎥⎥⎦= 1.
Security: There exists a PPT algorithm LFESim such that for any stateful PPT
adversary A, we have
Pr

RealLFE(1λ) = 1

−Pr

IdealLFE(1λ) = 1
 = negl(λ),
where the experiments RealLFE and IdealLFE are deﬁned as follows:
RealLFE(1λ) :
1. Sample crs ←LFE.Gen(1λ)
2. (P, x, y) ←A(crs)
3. (dig, y) := LFE.Hash(crs, y);
ct ←LFE.Enc(crs, dig, P, x)
4. Output A(ct)
IdealLFE(1λ) :
1. Sample crs ←LFE.Gen(1λ)
2. (P, x, y) ←A(crs)
3. ct ←LFESim(crs, y, P(x, y), t, md)
where t is the run time of P(x, y)
and md = md(P)
4. Output A(ct)

LFE, FE and Obfuscation for RAMs with Sublinear Computation
203
Eﬃciency. In the above deﬁnition, we don’t explicitly deﬁne desired eﬃciency
properties for a RAM-LFE. Thus the trivial scheme where the server simply
sends the entire database y to the client who then computes P(x, y) and sends
it back to the server does satisfy the deﬁnition. However, our goal will be to
achieve a RAM-LFE where the decryption run time is nearly linear in the RAM
run time of P(x, y) and the encryption run time is independent of the size of y.
Additionally, we consider two broad classes of eﬃciency within this goal. If
a RAM-LFE satisﬁes the above eﬃciency requirements and has encryption run
time that is at least linear in the worst case complexity T of P(x, ·), then we say
it is weakly eﬃcient. On the other hand, if the encryption run time is sublinear
in T (or, ideally, polylogarithmic) we say it is fully eﬃcient.
Remark 2 (Universal programs). In the above deﬁnition, we adopt the conven-
tion that the client chooses the RAM program P that is to be evaluated. We make
this choice merely for notational convenience and conceptual clarity throughout
security arguments. This deﬁnition is equivalent to an alternate version where
the server chooses the program or where the program is ﬁxed in advance. These
equivalences can be seen by viewing the program P as a universal RAM program
that reads instructions from either the server’s database y or the client’s private
database x (or both).
Remark 3 (Known upper bound on P). Implicit in our formulation of the RAM
model, we assume that the client knows an a priori upper bound T on the
run time of P. In the weakly eﬃcient setting, this is unavoidable because the
client’s run time is proportional to T. In the strongly eﬃcient setting, we can
set T = 2ω(log λ) to be super-polynomial without aﬀecting the eﬃciency of our
scheme. However, simply setting T this way requires us to assume slightly super-
polynomial security of the underlying assumptions because the security reduction
has a security loss linear in T.
It is possible to generically transform the scheme to avoid this super-
polynomial security loss using a trick from [AL18]. The client samples
a sequence of keys sk4, sk8, . . . , sk2ω(log λ)
for a symmetric-key encryption
scheme, then it produces a sequence of LFE ciphertexts ct2, ct4, . . . , ct2ω(log λ)
respectively encrypting the pairs (P2, x), (P4, x), . . . , (P2i, x), . . . , (P2ω(log λ), x),
where the program P2i
runs P
for 2i
steps. If P
halts in the ﬁrst
2i steps, P2i halts and returns the output of P, otherwise P2i returns
sk2i+1. The ﬁnal ciphertext consists of symmetric-key encryptions of each
of the LFE ciphertexts after the ﬁrst under corresponding keys, that is,
(ct2, Encsk4(ct4), . . . , Encsk2i(ct2i), . . . , Encsk2ω(log λ)(ct2ω(log λ))). The server can
then work its way up the chain using LFE decryption to learn exactly the secret
keys necessary to recover the ciphertext that can fully evaluate P.
Remark 4 (Larger output lengths). The above deﬁnition restricts the client’s pro-
gram to having single bit output. We can somewhat ease this restriction generi-
cally by permitting RAM programs P with longer output lengths. However, in
that case, the step circuit (and hence the description size |P|) must necessarily
have size that is at least linear in |z|. Therefore we incur an additional cost

204
F. Dong et al.
of |z| · T in the server’s decryption time. Later in Remark 5 we sketch how to
achieve only additive cost in |z|, but this transformation will require going under
the hood of our construction.
4
RAM-LFE with Unprotected Memory and Access
As a stepping stone toward RAM-LFE, we deﬁne and construct a notion of RAM-
LFE with a weaker security guarantee which we call RAM-LFE with unprotected
memory and access. In this notion, the client’s long input x is not hidden, and
neither is the memory access pattern the program makes to x and y throughout
the computation. Instead we’re only attempting to hide the short RAM program
description P. We give the formal deﬁnition below.
Deﬁnition 2 (RAM-LFE with Unprotected Memory and Access).
A
RAM-LFE with unprotected memory and access (UMA RAM-LFE) is a tuple
of algorithms (LFE.Gen, LFE.Hash, LFE.Enc, LFE.Dec) that satisﬁes the same syn-
tax and correctness properties as in Deﬁnition 1, but only satisﬁes the following
weaker notion of security: There exists a PPT algorithm SimUMA such that for
any PPT adversary A, we have
Pr

RealUMA
LFE (1λ) = 1

−Pr

IdealUMA
LFE (1λ) = 1
 = negl(λ),
where the experiment RealUMA
LFE is the same as RealLFE, and IdealUMA
LFE is the same
as IdealLFE except for the third step, which is changed to 3′ as follows:
3’. ct ←SimUMA(crs, x, y, P(x, y), t, md, MemAccess) where t is the run time of
P(x, y), md = md(P) and MemAccess = (it
x, vt
x, it
y, vt
y, jt
x, wt)t∈[T ] is the mem-
ory access pattern of P(x, y).
It turns out that full simulation based UMA security is not achievable in
the full eﬃciency setting. To get around this, we deﬁne an analogous version of
UMA security that is indistinguishability based as follows.
Deﬁnition 3 (RAM-LFE with Indistinguishability-based UMA Secu-
rity).
A RAM-LFE with indistinguishability based UMA security (indUMA
RAM-LFE) is a tuple of algorithms (LFE.Gen, LFE.Hash, LFE.Enc, LFE.Dec)
that satisﬁes the same syntax and correctness properties as in Deﬁnition 1, but
only satisﬁes the following game-based security notion. For all PPT adversaries
A,
Pr[ExptA
indUMA(1λ, 0) = 1] −Pr[ExptA
indUMA(1λ, 1) = 1]
 ≤negl(λ),
where the experiment ExptA
indUMA(1λ, b) is deﬁned as follows:
1. The challenger samples crs ←LFE.Gen(1λ) and sends it to A.
2. A chooses the public database y and a pair of private inputs (P0, x0), (P1, x1)
and sends them to the challenger.

LFE, FE and Obfuscation for RAMs with Sublinear Computation
205
3. The challenger checks that md(P0) = md(P1), that P0(x0, y) = P1(x1, y) and
that each execution runs for the same number of time steps. Then it addition-
ally checks that x0 = x1 and both computations access memory in an identical
manner (i.e. each program would write the same bit to the same location in
every step, and similar for reads).
4. If either of the checks fail, the challenger aborts the experiment; other-
wise, it computes (dig, y) := LFE.Hash(crs, y) and the ciphertext ctb ←
LFE.Enc(crs, dig, P, xb) and sends it to A.
5. A outputs b′. The output of the experiment is b′.
In this section, we give two constructions of RAM-LFE with unprotected mem-
ory and access. In Sect. 4.1, we construct a scheme that is weakly eﬃcient and
satisﬁes simulation-based UMA security. Then in Sect. 4.2, we show how combin-
ing the same techniques and additionally using indistinguishability obfuscation
can yield a fully eﬃcient RAM-LFE but only with indistinguishability-based
UMA security.
4.1
UMA RAM-LFE with Weak Eﬃciency
In the weak eﬃciency setting where we allow the running time of LFE.Enc and
the size of the ciphertext to scale proportionally to the running time of the
RAM program, we can build UMA secure RAM-LFE based on laconic oblivious
transfer and garbled circuits. Our construction is adapted from the construction
of non-interactive secure computation for RAM computation (RAM-NISC) from
[CDG+17], so we begin by summarizing it below.
The [CDG+17] RAM-NISC. The setting of RAM-NISC is very similar to that
of (UMA) RAM-LFE. A RAM NISC is a protocol between a server that holds a
large database private y and a client that holds a RAM program P (potentially
with short private data hardcoded into it). Like RAM-LFE, the protocol consists
of two messages: ﬁrst the server deterministically preprocesses the database y
into a digest dig and preprocessed database y, then the client can use dig to
encrypt P into a ciphertext ct that can be decrypted by the server to recover
P(y). Client security states that the server learns nothing more than P(y) and
its memory access pattern MemAccess. The main diﬀerences from RAM-NISC
and our model of RAM-LFE are that the [CDG+17] RAM-NISC does not permit
random accesses to a client input database x and it additionally requires security
for the server’s database.
The construction of [CDG+17] works by combining updatable laconic obliv-
ious transfer (LOT), standard oblivious transfer (OT) and garbled circuits. At a
high level the construction works as follows.
– The server uses the LOT hash function to compute dig and y. For each bit in
dig, the server sends a OT receiver message to the client.
– To encrypt P, the client garbles each of the T-many step circuits that may
need to be evaluated to compute P(·). However, before each step circuit is
garbled, it is modiﬁed in the following way so that it hides the intermediate
states of the computation.

206
F. Dong et al.
• Instead of outputting the local state, it outputs labels corresponding to
that state to be used as the input to the next garbled step circuit.
• When the step circuit would read from the database in position i, it
instead outputs an LOT message with respect to dig encrypting the label
corresponding to the value of the bit y[i].
• When the step circuit would write to the database, it instead outputs an
LOT update message along with the labels for the updated LOT digest.
The client sends these garbled circuits along with the labels for the ﬁrst step
circuit and OT sender messages encrypting the labels corresponding to the
bits of dig.
– The server can then evaluate P(y) by evaluating each garbled step circuit in
sequence. Any time the server needs to access at a location i in y, it will use
the LOT message from the step circuit to recover (only) the garbled circuit
labels corresponding to y[i].
In order to adapt this construction to our setting, we make the following
modiﬁcations. First, we observe that, since we don’t require security for the
server’s input y, we can remove the OT and have the server simply send dig to
the client. Second, we can use LOT to permit random access to the client’s input
x in addition to y. While this modiﬁcation does reveal x to the server, this is
ﬁne for UMA security, and we note that any secret information stored in the
description of P will still be hidden from the server.
Theorem 1 (Adapted from [CDG+17], Sect. 6). Assuming the existence of
updatable laconic oblivious transfer, there exists a UMA RAM-LFE with the
following eﬃciency properties:
– LFE.Hash(crs, y) runs in time |y| · poly(λ, log |y|)
– LFE.Enc(crs, dig, P, x) runs in time T · poly(λ, |P|) + |x| · poly(λ, log |x|)
– LFE.Dec(crs, y, ct) runs in time t · poly(λ, |P|)
where T is the maximum running time of P, and t is the actual running time of
P(x, y).
Proof (Proof Sketch). After performing the modiﬁcations to the [CDG+17] con-
struction as described above, we obtain the following construction of UMA RAM-
LFE.
– LFE.Gen(1λ): Sample an LOT CRS corresponding to each database x and y
and output crs = (crsx, crsy).
– LFE.Hash(crs, y): Run the LOT hash on the server’s database y, and output
the resultant digest digy and preprocessed database y.
– LFE.Enc(crs, digy, P, x): First run the LOT hash on the client’s database x,
obtaining the digest digx and preprocessed state ˆx. Then garble the step
circuits of P as in [CDG+17], handling accesses to x in an analogous way as
accesses to y. Output a ciphertext ct containing the garbled step circuits and
preprocessed state ˆx.

LFE, FE and Obfuscation for RAMs with Sublinear Computation
207
– LFE.Dec(crs, y, ct): Evaluate the garbled circuits step by step with the labels
from decrypting the LOT messages (for both x and y) that are output by the
previous step circuit. Ultimately recover the RAM program output z from
the ﬁnal step circuit.
It is easy to see that the modiﬁcations we made to the [CDG+17] construction
do not aﬀect the hiding property on P. We provide a sketch of the proof of
security here and refer the reader to [CDG+17] for the full details.
It suﬃces to deﬁne a simulator that when given the output of P(x, y) along
with the databases x, y and the memory access pattern MemAccess, outputs
a simulated sequence of garbled step circuits. Since the simulator is give the
databases and the access pattern, it can use the LOT send and update simu-
lators to simulate the LOT messages output by each garbled step circuit over
the course of the computation. Then, using the garbled circuit simulator and the
ﬁnal output of the computation, we can produce a sequence of simulated garbled
step circuit that output the simulated LOT messages and labels that eventually
lead to the ﬁnal circuit outputting P(x, y).
We argue that this simulated ciphertext distribution is indistinguishable from
the real world ciphertext distribution over a sequence of hybrid experiments
where we gradually switch each garbled step circuit to a simulated one, one at
a time beginning with the ﬁrst. The indistinguishability of consecutive hybrids
follows from the garble circuit security and LOT sender security.
4.2
UMA RAM-LFE with Full Eﬃciency
In this section we show how to build on the techniques of the previous section
to build UMA RAM-LFE with full eﬃciency where the running time of LFE.Enc
scales only polylogarithmically with the worst case run time of the RAM pro-
gram P. However, we recall that simulation based security is not achievable in
this setting, so we instead construct UMA RAM-LFE with indistinguishability
based security (see Deﬁnition 3). Our construction relies on updatable laconic OT
and garbled circuits as before, along with the additional assumption of indistin-
guishability obfuscation (iO). Our construction is adapted from the construction
of UMA-secure garbled RAM (UMA GRAM) from [ACFQ22], which we sum-
marize below.
The [ACFQ22] UMA GRAM. The construction of UMA GRAM from [ACFQ22]
is in the model of garbled RAM, which is slightly diﬀerent than our model
of RAM-LFE. In the GRAM setting, the client holds a database x and RAM
program P. The client ﬁrst processes the database into some garbled database ˆx
and stores some associated secret key sk. Then the client can use sk to garble the
program. A server can then recover P(x) by evaluating the garbled program on
the garbled database. In the UMA model of security, the server learns nothing
about P other than its access pattern and output when evaluated on x.
At its core, the [ACFQ22] GRAM construction follows the same rough tem-
plate as the [CDG+17] RAM-NISC (see Sect. 4.1): The database is compressed

208
F. Dong et al.
into a digest using the LOT hash, then the RAM program is encrypted and eval-
uated as a sequence of garbled step circuits that pass along labels for database
accesses through LOT send and update messages. The main conceptual diﬀerence
here is the use of iO to reduce the encryption time and compress the ciphertext.
Instead of garbling each step circuit individually, the encryptor outputs an obfus-
cated program that, when evaluated on a step t, outputs the t-th garbled step
circuit. At a high level the construction works as follows.
– To garble the database x, the client samples an LOT CRS crs and uses the
LOT hash function to compute a digest dig and preprocessed database ˆx. It
then outputs ˆx as the garbled database and sk = (crs, dig) as the secret key.
– To garble the program P, the client generates a “program generator” circuit
PG that, on input a step t ∈[T], outputs the t-th garbled step circuit that has
been modiﬁed in the same way as in [CDG+17] (see Sect. 4.1). The program
generator PG uses a (puncturable) PRF evaluated on its input as the source
for the randomness of the circuit garbling. The client outputs the obfuscation

PG = iO(PG) as the garbled program.
– Finally, to evaluate the garbled program, in each step the server runs the
obfuscated program 
PG to recover the next garbled step circuit to evaluate,
and uses the LOT to handle database accesses.
In order to cast the [ACFQ22] UMA GRAM as a UMA RAM-LFE, we need
only make a few modiﬁcations. First, we observe that in the UMA setting, all of
the information stored in the garbled database secret key can actually be made
public. Indeed, LOT security holds when the CRS is public, and the digest dig
can be computed deterministically from the CRS and x. For this reason, we can
have the server also produce a “garbled” database and send its digest to the
client so that it can garble the program. This leads naturally into our second
modiﬁcation that, as in the previous section, we can modify the protocol to
handle both client and server databases x and y.
Theorem 2 (Adapted from [ACFQ22], Theorem 5.6).
Assuming the
existence of updatable laconic oblivious transfer and iO with log-sized inputs,
there exists a UMA RAM-LFE scheme LFE = ( LFE.Gen, LFE.Hash, LFE.Enc,
LFE.Dec) with the following eﬃciency:
– LFE.Hash(crs, y) runs in time |y| · poly(λ, log |y|)
– LFE.Enc(crs, dig, P, x) runs in time poly(λ, |P|) + |x| · poly(λ, log |x|)
– LFE.Dec(crs, y, ct) runs in time t · poly(λ, |P|)
where t is the running time of P(x, y).
Proof (Proof Sketch). After performing the modiﬁcations to the [ACFQ22] UMA
GRAM construction as described above, we obtain the following construction of
UMA RAM-LFE with full eﬃciency.
– LFE.Gen(1λ): Sample an LOT CRS corresponding to each database x and y
and output crs = (crsx, crsy).

LFE, FE and Obfuscation for RAMs with Sublinear Computation
209
– LFE.Hash(crs, y): Run the LOT hash on the server’s database y using crsy,
and output the resultant digest digy and preprocessed database y.
– LFE.Enc(crs, dy, P, x): First, run the LOT hash on the client’s database x using
crsx, obtaining digest digx and state ˆx. Then construct the program generator
circuit PG as in [ACFQ22], hardcoding inside of it both digests digx and digy,
as well as a puncturable PRF key. The program generator PG handles accesses
to y in an analogous manner to accesses to x. Finally, output the preprocessed
client database ˆx, the obfuscation of the program generator 
PG = iO(PG) as
well as labels for the ﬁrst step circuit.
– LFE.Dec(crs, y, c): For each t ∈[T], evaluate the obfuscated the program
generator to recover the t-th garbled step circuit. Then evaluate the step
circuit and use the LOT to recover the labels corresponding to the memory
accesses to x and y. Ultimately recover the RAM program output z from the
ﬁnal step circuit.
It is clear that the modiﬁcations we described above do not aﬀect the security
of the client’s chosen RAM program P. We modiﬁed the protocol so that the
LOT CRS for the client’s input x is revealed to the adversary rather than being
hidden in the garbled database secret key. However, that CRS is only used in
performing LOT operations, and LOT sender and update security still holds
when the CRS is made public. Therefore the security argument from [ACFQ22],
simply adjusted to account for the two independent LOT schemes for x and y,
will still apply to prove security of our construction. We brieﬂy outline the proof
of security below, and we refer the reader to [ACFQ22] for the full details.
To show security of the construction it suﬃces to show that an encryption
of (P0, x) under the digest of some y is indistinguishable from the encryption of
(P1, x) under the same digest, so long as P0(x, y) and P1(x, y) have the same
output, running time and memory access pattern. We begin by switching to a
hybrid world where the obfuscated program generator has both P0 and P1 hard-
coded into it, however it always outputs garbled step circuits for P0. Then we will
gradually switch the program generator to output garbled step circuits for P1
by hardcoding randomness in the generator for speciﬁc steps of the computation
using the puncturable PRF, and appealing to the security of the garbled circuit
and LOT schemes. This strategy of hardcoding at speciﬁc steps of the computa-
tion must be done carefully via a pebbling argument so as to avoid hardcoding
too much data at any one time.
5
Upgrading to Full Security
In this section we upgrade the UMA RAM-LFE constructions of the previous
section to achieve full security. We consider the weak eﬃciency and full eﬃciency
setting separately.
5.1
The Weak Eﬃciency Case
In this section we show how to upgrade the weakly eﬃcient UMA RAM-LFE
from Sect. 4.1 to full security. Recall that in the weak eﬃciency setting we allow

210
F. Dong et al.
the client’s run time to be proportional to the running time of P. In this case we
can upgrade from UMA RAM-LFE by hiding the program’s memory and access
pattern by additionally using symmetric-key encryption, DEPIR and ORAM,
all of which follow from RingLWE.
At a high level, we will use a symmetric-key encryption scheme to encrypt
the client’s database together with the memory contents, and use ORAM and
DEPIR to hide the memory address in the access pattern. Simulation security of
the construction will follow from CPA-security of the encryption scheme and the
simulation security of UMA RAM-LFE and ORAM and security of the DEPIR.
Theorem 3. Assuming the existence of a (simulation-secure) UMA RAM-LFE
and DEPIR, there exists a fully-secure RAM-LFE scheme. In particular, assum-
ing the RingLWE assumption holds there exists a weakly eﬃcient RAM-LFE
scheme with the following eﬃciency properties: for any constant ϵ > 0
– LFE.Hash(crs, y) runs in time |y|1+ϵ · poly(λ)
– LFE.Enc(crs, dig, P, x) runs in time T · poly(λ, |P|) + |x| · poly(λ, log |x|, log T)
– LFE.Dec(crs, y, ct) runs in time t · poly(λ, |P|)
where T is the maximum running time of P, and t is the actual running time of
P(x, y).
Construction. We construct a fully-secure RAM-LFE scheme with weak eﬃ-
ciency. We use the following building blocks
– A CPA-secure symmetric-key encryption scheme SKE = (SKE.Gen, SKE.Enc,
SKE.Dec)
– A DEPIR scheme: DEPIR = (Prep, Query, Dec)
– An ORAM scheme: ORAM = (ORAM.Setup, ORAM.Access)
– A UMA RAM-LFE scheme uLFE = (uLFE.Gen, uLFE.Hash, uLFE.Enc,
uLFE.Dec)
At a high level our construction proceeds as follows. We use the encryption
scheme to encrypt the client’s input x bit by bit. Then we compile P into an
oblivious program P ∗that accesses x under the encryption and hides the access
pattern of P by accessing x through ORAM and y through DEPIR. Because
making one logical access via DEPIR or ORAM takes multiple physical accesses,
each logical step in evaluating P will be compiled into η steps in P ∗where η is
the number of physical accesses it takes to make an ORAM or DEPIR query.
For convenience we assume that the value η is the same for the ORAM and
DEPIR schemes. This is without loss of generality because we can simply pad
the shorter one with dummy accesses without aﬀecting security. We additionally
note that the encryption scheme, the ORAM and the DEPIR all necessarily
require randomness for security. We provide this by hardcoding randomness into
P ∗to serve as the random tapes. We formally deﬁne our RAM-LFE = (LFE.Gen,
LFE.Hash, LFE.Enc, LFE.Dec) as follows:
– LFE.Gen(1λ) does the same as uLFE.Gen, generating crs = (crsx, crsy) for the
two LOT scheme.

LFE, FE and Obfuscation for RAMs with Sublinear Computation
211
– LFE.Hash(crs, y) outputs the digest of DEPIR preprocessed database.
1. Run DEPIR preprocessing ˆy := Prep(1λ, y).
2. Compute (dig, y) := uLFE.Hash(crsy, ˆy) and output it.
– LFE.Enc(crs, dig, P, x):
1. Sample a secret key sk ←SKE.Gen(1λ) and encrypt the database x to get
x′ ←SKE.Enc(sk, x). Then run (ck0, x∗) ←ORAM.Setup(1λ, x′, |x| + T).
Here T is the maximum running time of P(x, ·).
2. Sample PRFs FO, FD, FE. Construct the oblivious program P ∗as
described in Algorithm 4, hardcoding the program P, the encryption key
sk, the ORAM client key ck along with the PRFs.
3. Run ct ←uLFE.Enc(crs, dig, P ∗, x∗) and output ct to the server.
– LFE.Dec(crs, y, ct) simply evaluates uLFE.Dec(crs, y, ct) and outputs the
result.
Algorithm 4. The oblivious program P ∗
Hardcoded: The step circuit C for P, secret key sk for symmetric-key encryp-
tion, an ORAM client secret key ck0, pseudorandom functions FO, FE, FD.
Inputs: The encrypted database x∗and the preprocessed database y
Algorithm: Initialize st∗,0 = (st0, ck0), v0
x = 0, v0
y = 0, where st0 is the initial
state for the ﬁrst step circuit C of P. For τ ∈[T], run the following:
1. Parse st∗,τ−1
= (stτ−1, ckτ−1). Run (stτ, iτ
x, iτ
y, jτ
x, wτ) := C(stτ−1,
vτ−1
x
, vτ−1
y
).
2. Encrypt wτ
e ←SKE.Enc(sk, wτ), and FE(τ) is the randomness used for
encryption. Then run the following two ORAM access in order as a sub-
routine:
(a) Run (ckτ−1
1
, ⊥) ←ORAM.Accessx∗(ckτ−1, write, jτ
x, wτ
e ).
(b) Run (ckτ, vτ
x∗) ←ORAM.Accessx∗(ckτ−1
1
, read, iτ
x, ⊥).
Where here we use FO(τ) as the random tape used in the ORAM.Access
function.
3. Run DEPIR encryption (Qτ, sτ) ←Query(1λ, |y|, iτ
y), and make read
access to ˆy at the locations in set Qτ, obtaining V τ
ˆy = {ˆy[qτ] : qτ ∈Qτ}.
Here we use FD(τ) as the randomness used for DEPIR query.
4. Decrypt vτ
x := SKE.Dec(sk, vx∗) and vτ
y := Dec(sτ, V τ
ˆy ). Update st∗,τ =
(stτ, ckτ)
The security of the above construction follows by a standard hybrid argument
leveraging the simulation security of the UMA RAM-LFE together with that of
the DEPIR and ORAM schemes. We defer the details of the proof to the full
version [DHMW24].
Remark 5 (Larger outputs with additive cost). The RAM-LFE we constructed
above only handles RAM programs that have one-bit output. Here we brieﬂy
sketch how to remove this constraint while only incurring an additive cost in the
output length, however we omit the precise details for the sake of brevity. We

212
F. Dong et al.
notice that our construction can actually be modiﬁed to allow the client to send
a batch of multiple encrypted programs for the server to evaluate in sequence
on the same inputs (and hence consistent working memory). This can be done
by having the ﬁnal garbled step circuit output one bit in the clear in addition
to the labels that would be required to begin evaluating another garbled circuit
on the updated database. Using this observed property, the client can construct
a program P that writes its desired output to working memory and then follow
that program with a sequence of programs that simply read one bit each from
memory and output it. In this way, the server can decrypt the output z in time
proportional to T + |z|.
5.2
The Full Eﬃciency Case
In this section we construct fully eﬃcient RAM-LFE by upgrading the fully
eﬃcient UMA RAM-LFE from Sect. 4.2. Ultimately the construction we use will
be conceptually very similar to that of the weakly eﬃcient case in the previous
section: we encrypt the client’s database and hide the access patterns to x and
y under an ORAM and DEPIR respectively. However, because Theorem 2 only
gives indistinguishability-based UMA security in the full eﬃciency setting, the
security proof for this construction requires signiﬁcantly more care. We use the
techniques of punctured programming and follow the outline of [CH16], working
in two steps. In the ﬁrst step we upgrade to a security notion where we hide the
content of the client’s database and memory accesses, but where the addresses
accessed are still unprotected. Then we show how to go from this intermediate
notion to full (simulation-based) RAM-LFE security.
Hiding Database Content
Deﬁnition 1 (RAM-LFE with Unprotected Access). A RAM-LFE with
unprotected access (UA RAM-LFE) is a tuple of algorithms (LFE.Gen, LFE.Hash,
LFE.Enc, LFE.Dec) that satisﬁes the same syntax and correctness properties as
in Deﬁnition 1, but only satisﬁes the following weaker notion of security. For all
PPT adversaries A,
Pr[ExptA
UA(1λ, 0) = 1] −Pr[ExptA
UA(1λ, 1) = 1]
 ≤negl(λ),
where the experiment ExptA
UA(1λ, b) is deﬁned as follows:
1. The challenger samples crs ←LFE.Gen(1λ) and sends it to A.
2. A chooses the public database y and a pair of private inputs (P0, x0), (P1, x1)
and sends them to the challenger.
3. The challenger checks that md(P0) = md(P1), that P0(x0, y) = P1(x1, y) and
that each execution runs for the same number of time steps. Then it only
checks that both computations access the same sequence of memory addresses
(i.e. the locations read from and written to, not the content).

LFE, FE and Obfuscation for RAMs with Sublinear Computation
213
4. If either of the checks fail, the challenger aborts the experiment; other-
wise, it computes (dig, y) := LFE.Hash(crs, y) and the ciphertext ctb ←
LFE.Enc(crs, dig, Pb, xb) and sends it to A.
5. A outputs b′. The output of the experiment is b′.
Theorem 5. Assuming the existence of an indistinguishability-based UMA
RAM-LFE, there exists an indistinguishability-based UA RAM-LFE. In partic-
ular, assuming the existence of updatable laconic oblivious transfer and indis-
tinguishability obfuscation, there exists a UA RAM-LFE with the following eﬃ-
ciency:
– LFE.Hash(crs, y) runs in time |y| · poly(λ, log |y|)
– LFE.Enc(crs, dig, P, x) runs in time poly(λ, |P|) + |x| · poly(λ, log |x|, log T)
– LFE.Dec(crs, y, ct) runs in time t · poly(λ, |P|),
where T is the maximum running time of P and t is the actual running time of
P(x, y).
Construction. Our two building blocks are an indistinguishability-based UMA
RAM-LFE uLFE and a puncturable PRF family F. At a high level, the construc-
tion works by compiling the clients input (P, x) into an encrypted database x′
and a transformed program P ′ that operates over the encrypted x′, but leaves
all of its accesses to y unchanged. Then we simply use uLFE.Enc on (P ′, x′) to
produce the ﬁnal ciphertext. We make the following modiﬁcations to compile P
into P ′. Without loss of generality, we assume that P has memory cell alphabet
Σ = {0, 1}. First, P ′ executes two copies of P in parallel, on two independent
“tracks” of read/write memory which we call the left and right tracks; at the
end it will only output the result of the left-track computation, meaning the
right track is only used as a “dummy” computation. Second, each time P ′ would
write to memory, it additionally writes metadata containing the time step this
memory cell was last written to. We model these changes by setting the alphabet
of P ′ to Σ′ = [T] × {0, 1}2, so each memory cell of x contains a tuple (t, u, v)
where t ∈[T] is a time step and u and v are the values in the left and right
track of memory respectively at that location. Finally, we also modify P ′ to use
a pair of (puncturable) PRFs to mask each bit it writes to memory. We formally
deﬁne the encryption algorithm below; all other algorithms in the scheme simply
invoke the corresponding algorithms in the underlying UMA RAM-LFE.
– LFE.Enc(crs, dig, P, x):
1. Sample two puncturable PRFs F, G ←F.
2. Construct the modiﬁed program P ′ as deﬁned in Algorithm 6 by hard-
coding PL = PR = P and the two PRFs F and G.
3. Compute the encrypted database x′ using F and G to mask each bit of
x and writing it to both tracks of memory: x′[i] = (0, x[i] ⊕F(0, i), x[i] ⊕
G(0, i)).
4. Compute ciphertext ct ←uLFE.Enc(crs, dig, P ′, x′) and output it.

214
F. Dong et al.
Algorithm 6. The transformed RAM Program P ′
Hardcoded: Two RAM programs PL, PR and two puncturable PRFs F, G.
Algorithm: Takes as input the encrypted database x′ and the unaltered pub-
lic database y. Let CL, CR be the step circuits of PL and PR respectively.
Evaluation of P ′ is deﬁned by the following loop. Initialize st = (stL, stR),
vx = (t′, vx,L, vx,R) and vy with zeroes. For each time step t ∈[T]:
1. Evaluate both step circuits outL
=
CL(stL, vx,L, vy) and outR
=
CR(stR, vx,R, vy). If the left track is in an output state (i.e. outL ∈Z),
halt and output outL. Otherwise parse outL = (stL, ix, iy, jx, wL) and
outR = (stR, ix, iy, jx, wR). If the memory addresses accessed by the left
and right tracks diﬀer, abort and output ⊥.
2. Write each of wL and wR to their respective tracks, masked under inde-
pendent PRFs, along with metadata of the time step this write occurred:
x′[jx] = (t, wL ⊕F(t, jx), wR ⊕G(t, jx)).
3. Read (t′, cL, cR) = x′[ix] from the encrypted memory, and use the PRFs
to unmask the data: vx,L = cL ⊕F(t′, ix) and vx,R = cR ⊕G(t′, ix).
4. Read from y to get vy = y[iy] and update the state st = (stL, = stR) to
carry forward to the next step.
Correctness and eﬃciency of the above construction follow in a straightfor-
ward manner from the underlying primitives. At a high level, we argue security
as follows. Let (P0, x0) and (P1, x1) be the two client inputs chosen by the adver-
sary in the security game. We show that we can use PRF security together with
the UMA security to switch into a hybrid world where the challenge ciphertext
encrypts a program that simultaneously evaluates P0 on the left track of memory
and P1 on the right track. We show that this hybrid world is indistinguishable
from either of the real experiments ExptUA(1λ, b) for b ∈{0, 1}. We defer the
details of the proof to the full version [DHMW24].
Hiding the Access Pattern. In this section we show how to upgrade the
indistinguishability-based UA RAM-LFE from the previous section into a RAM-
LFE with full (simulation-based) security using DEPIR and ORAM to hide the
addresses that are accessed.
Theorem 7. Assuming the existence of a UA RAM-LFE, an ORAM with local-
ized randomness and DEPIR, there exists a (fully simulation secure) RAM-LFE
with full eﬃciency. In particular, assuming RingLWE holds and the existence
of indistinguishability obfuscation, there exists a RAM-LFE with the following
eﬃciency properties: for any constant ϵ > 0
– LFE.Hash(crs, y) runs in time |y|1+ϵ · poly(λ).
– LFE.Enc(crs, dig, P, x) runs in time poly(λ, |P|) + |x| · poly(λ, log |x|, log T)
– LFE.Dec(crs, y, ct) runs in time t · poly(λ, |P|).
where T is the maximum running time of P, and t is the actual running time of
P(x, y).

LFE, FE and Obfuscation for RAMs with Sublinear Computation
215
Construction. The ingredients to our construction are as follows:
– An indistinguishability-based UA RAM-LFE uLFE = (uLFE.Gen, uLFE.Hash,
uLFE.Enc, uLFE.Dec)
– An
ORAM
with
localized
randomness:
ORAM
=
(ORAM.Setup,
ORAM.Access)
– A DEPIR: DEPIR = (Prep, Query, Dec)
– Puncturable PRFs with various input and output sizes
At a high level, our construction here is analogous to the weakly eﬃcient con-
struction from Sect. 5.1: Given a client’s input (P, x), we compile the program
P into a new program P ∗that hides the access pattern of P by accessing x via
the ORAM and y via DEPIR. Because making one logical access via DEPIR or
ORAM takes multiple physical accesses, each logical step in evaluating P will
be compiled into η steps in P ∗where η is the number of physical accesses it
takes to make an ORAM or DEPIR query.8 Since accessing memory via ORAM
and DEPIR are necessarily randomized processes, we use (puncturable) PRFs
as the source of the randomness for each access. In DEPIR, each query uses
independent contiguous blocks of randomness, so we model its random tape as
a PRF FD : [T] →{0, 1}λ. However in the ORAM with localized randomness,
we think of the access algorithm as having a global random tape that is con-
sistent throughout all ORAM accesses, thus we model the ORAM random tape
as a PRF FO : [M] →{0, 1}, where M is an upper bound on the length of the
random tape.
– LFE.Gen(1λ): Sample crs ←uLFE.Gen(1λ) as in the UA RAM-LFE.
– LFE.Hash(crs, y): Use the DEPIR to preprocess ˆy
:=
Prep(1λ, y), and
use the UA RAM-LFE to hash the preprocessed database: (dig, y) :=
uLFE.Hash(crs, ˆy).
– LFE.Enc(crs, dig, P, x):
1. Sample two puncturable PRFs FO : [M] →{0, 1} and FD : [T] →{0, 1}λ.
2. Initialize
an
ORAM
containing
x,
by
computing
(ck, x∗)
←
ORAM.Setup(1λ, x, N + T) using FO as the random tape of the com-
putation. Here N = |x| and T is the upper bound on the running time of
P.
3. Compile P into the oblivious program P ∗as deﬁned in Algorithm 8 by
hardcoding into it the PRFs FO and FD as well as the ORAM client key
ck.
4. Compute the ciphertext ct ←uLFE.Enc(crs, dig, P ∗, x∗).
– LFE.Dec(crs, y, ct): Simply evaluate z := uLFE(crs, y, ct) and output the result.
8 As in Sect. 5.1, we assume without loss of generality that the value η is the same for
both the ORAM and DEPIR schemes, potentially padding the one that needs fewer
accesses with arbitrary dummy accesses.

216
F. Dong et al.
Algorithm 8. The oblivious program P ∗
Hardcoded: A RAM program P, an ORAM client key ck and two puncturable
PRFs FO : [M] →{0, 1} and FD : [T] →{0, 1}λ.
Algorithm: Takes as input the ORAM database x∗and DEPIR preprocessed
public database ˆy. Let C be the step circuit of P. Initialize st∗= (st, ck), vx =
0, vy = 0, where st is the initial state for the step circuit C of P. For t ∈[T],
run the following:
1. Parse st∗= (st, ck), and evaluate the step circuit yielding out :=
C(st, vx, vy). If out is an output state (i.e. out ∈Z), halt and output
it. Otherwise parse out = (st′, ix, iy, jx, w)
2. Run the following two ORAM accesses in order as subroutines to handle
the accesses to x. We use the PRF FO : [M] →{0, 1} to function as the
(global) random tape for all ORAM accesses throughout the computation.
Recall M is an upper bound on the number of random coins the ORAM
will use in making at most 2T logical accesses.
(a) Run (ck′, ⊥) ←ORAM.Accessx∗(ck, write, jx, w).
(b) Run (ck′′, vx) ←ORAM.Accessx∗(ck′, read, ix, ⊥).
3. Sample a DEPIR query (Q, s) ←Query(1λ, |y|, iy) using randomness
given by FD(t), and read Vˆy = ˆy[Q] = {ˆy[q] : q ∈Q}. Decrypt to recover
vy := Dec(s, Vˆy).
4. Update st∗= (st′, ck′′) with the newly updated step circuit state and
ORAM client key, and carry st∗, vx and vy to the next step.
The correctness and eﬃciency of the above construction follow in a straight-
forward manner from the properties of the underlying primitives. We argue secu-
rity using punctured programming techniques. We crucially rely on the localized
randomness of the ORAM and the property that DEPIR queries use indepen-
dent randomness. The unprotected access security of the UA RAM-LFE allows
us to ignore the content being written to/read from memory and focus on the
addresses being accessed. This allows us to deﬁne a sequence of hybrids where
we change the distribution of the ciphertext ct by gradually simulating steps of
the computation, starting from the end and working toward the beginning. We
defer the details of the proof to the full version [DHMW24].
Acknowledgements. We thank Ji Luo for helpful comments. Research supported by
NSF grant CNS-1750795, CNS-2055510 and the JP Morgan Faculty Research Award.
References
[ACFQ22] Ananth, P., Chung, K.-M., Fan, X., Qian, L.: Collusion-resistant func-
tional encryption for RAMs. In: Agrawal, S., Lin, D. (eds.) ASIACRYPT
2022, Part I. LNCS, vol. 13791, pp. 160–194. Springer, Heidelberg (2022).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-22963-3 6

LFE, FE and Obfuscation for RAMs with Sublinear Computation
217
[AGVW13] Agrawal, S., Gorbunov, S., Vaikuntanathan, V., Wee, H.: Functional
encryption: new perspectives and lower bounds. In: Canetti, R., Garay,
J.A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2013, Part II. LNCS, vol. 8043, pp. 500–518.
Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-40084-
1 28
[AL18] Ananth, P., Lombardi, A.: Succinct garbling schemes from functional
encryption through a local simulation paradigm. In: Beimel, A., Dziem-
bowski, S. (eds.) TCC 2018, Part II. LNCS, vol. 11240, pp. 455–472.
Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-03810-6 17
[BCG+18] Bitansky, N., et al.: Indistinguishability obfuscation for ram programs
and succinct randomized encodings. SIAM J. Comput. 47(3), 1123–1210
(2018)
[CDG+17] Cho, C., D¨ottling, N., Garg, S., Gupta, D., Miao, P., Polychroniadou, A.:
Laconic oblivious transfer and its applications. In: Katz, J., Shacham, H.
(eds.) CRYPTO 2017, Part II. LNCS, vol. 10402, pp. 33–65. Springer,
Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-63715-0 2
[CH16] Canetti, R., Holmgren, J.: Fully succinct garbled RAM. In: Sudan, M.
(ed.) ITCS 2016: 7th Conference on Innovations in Theoretical Computer
Science, pp. 169–178. Association for Computing Machinery, January 2016
[CHJV15] Canetti, R., Holmgren, J., Jain, A., Vaikuntanathan, V.: Succinct gar-
bling and indistinguishability obfuscation for RAM programs. In: Serve-
dio, R.A., Rubinfeld, R. (eds.) 47th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory
of Computing, pp. 429–437. ACM Press, June 2015
[DGM23] D¨ottling, N., Gajland, P., Malavolta, G.: Laconic function evaluation for
turing machines. In: Boldyreva, A., Kolesnikov, V. (eds.) PKC 2023, Part
II. LNCS, vol. 13941, pp. 606–634. Springer, Heidelberg (2023). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-31371-4 21
[DHMW24] Dong, F., Hao, Z., Mook, E., Wichs, D.: Laconic function evaluation, func-
tional encryption and obfuscation for rams with sublinear computation.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2024/068 (2024). https://eprint.iacr.
org/2024/068
[GHL+14] Gentry, C., Halevi, S., Lu, S., Ostrovsky, R., Raykova, M., Wichs, D.: Gar-
bled RAM revisited. In: Nguyen, P.Q., Oswald, E. (eds.) EUROCRYPT
2014. LNCS, vol. 8441, pp. 405–422. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-55220-5 23
[GHRW14] Gentry, C., Halevi, S., Raykova, M., Wichs, D.: Outsourcing private RAM
computation. In: 55th Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer
Science, pp. 404–413. IEEE Computer Society Press, October 2014
[GKP+13] Goldwasser, S., Kalai, Y.T., Popa, R.A., Vaikuntanathan, V., Zeldovich,
N.: Reusable garbled circuits and succinct functional encryption. In:
Boneh, D., Roughgarden, T., Feigenbaum, J. (eds.) 45th Annual ACM
Symposium on Theory of Computing, pp. 555–564. ACM Press, June
2013
[GO96] Goldreich, O., Ostrovsky, R.: Software protection and simulation on obliv-
ious rams. J. ACM 43(3), 431–473 (1996)
[GOS18] Garg, S., Ostrovsky, R., Srinivasan, A.: Adaptive garbled RAM from
laconic oblivious transfer. In: Shacham, H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.) CRYPTO
2018, Part III. LNCS, vol. 10993, pp. 515–544. Springer, Cham (2018).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-96878-0 18
[Gra10] Grauman, K.: Eﬃciently searching for similar images. Commun. ACM
53(6), 84–94 (2010)

218
F. Dong et al.
[GS18a] Garg, S., Srinivasan, A.: Adaptively secure garbling with near optimal
online complexity. In: Nielsen, J.B., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2018,
Part II. LNCS, vol. 10821, pp. 535–565. Springer, Cham (2018). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-78375-8 18
[GS18b] Garg, S., Srinivasan, A.: A simple construction of iO for turing machines.
In: Beimel, A., Dziembowski, S. (eds.) TCC 2018, Part II. LNCS, vol.
11240, pp. 425–454. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-030-03810-6 16
[HHWW19] Hamlin, A., Holmgren, J., Weiss, M., Wichs, D.: On the plausibility of
fully homomorphic encryption for RAMs. In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio,
D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019, Part I. LNCS, vol. 11692, pp. 589–619. Springer,
Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-26948-7 21
[JLL23] Jain, A., Lin, H., Luo, J.: On the optimal succinctness and eﬃciency
of functional encryption and attribute-based encryption. In: Hazay, C.,
Stam, M. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2023, Part III. LNCS, vol. 14006, pp.
479–510. Springer, Heidelberg (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-
30620-4 16
[JLS21] Jain, A., Lin, H., Sahai, A.: Indistinguishability obfuscation from well-
founded assumptions. In: Khuller, S., Williams, V.V. (eds.) 53rd Annual
ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, pp. 60–73. ACM Press, June
2021
[JLS22] Jain, A., Lin, H., Sahai, A.: Indistinguishability obfuscation from LPN
over Fp, DLIN, and PRGs in NC0. In: Dunkelman, O., Dziembowski,
S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2022, Part I. LNCS, vol. 13275, pp. 670–699.
Springer, Cham (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-06944-4 23
[LMW22] Lin, W.-K., Mook, E., Wichs, D.: Doubly eﬃcient private information
retrieval and fully homomorphic ram computation from ring LWE. Cryp-
tology ePrint Archive, Paper 2022/1703 (2022). https://eprint.iacr.org/
2022/1703
[LO13] Lu, S., Ostrovsky, R.: How to garble RAM programs? In: Johansson, T.,
Nguyen, P.Q. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2013. LNCS, vol. 7881, pp. 719–734.
Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-38348-
9 42
[QWW18] Quach, W., Wee, H., Wichs, D.: Laconic function evaluation and appli-
cations. In: Thorup, M. (ed.) 59th Annual Symposium on Foundations of
Computer Science, pp. 859–870. IEEE Computer Society Press, October
2018

