Leakage-Tolerant Circuits
Yuval Ishai1(B) and Yifan Song2,3
1 Technion, Haifa, Israel
yuvali@cs.technion.ac.il
2 Institute for Theoretical Computer Science, Institute for Interdisciplinary
Information Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing, People’s Republic of China
yfsong@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn
3 Shanghai Qi Zhi Institute, Shanghai, People’s Republic of China
Abstract. A leakage-resilient circuit for f : {0, 1}n →{0, 1}m is a ran-
domized Boolean circuit C mapping a randomized encoding of an input
x to an encoding of y = f(x), such that applying any leakage function
L ∈L to the wires of C reveals essentially nothing about x. A leakage-
tolerant circuit achieves the stronger guarantee that even when x and y
are not protected by any encoding, the output of L can be simulated by
applying some L′ ∈L to x and y alone. Thus, C is as secure as an ideal
hardware implementation of f with respect to leakage from L.
Leakage-resilient circuits were constructed for low-complexity classes
L, including (length-t output) AC0 functions, parities, and functions
with bounded communication complexity. In contrast, leakage-tolerant
circuits were only known for the simple case of probing leakage, where L
outputs the values of t wires in C.
We initiate a systematic study of leakage-tolerant circuits for natural
classes L of global leakage functions, obtaining the following main results.
– Leakage-tolerant circuits for depth-1 leakage. Every circuit
Cf for f can be eﬃciently compiled into an L-tolerant circuit C
for f, where L includes all leakage functions L that output either t
parities or t disjunctions (alternatively, conjunctions) of any number
of wires or their negations. In the case of parities, our simulator runs
in 2O(t) time. We provide partial evidence that this may be inherent.
– Application to stateful leakage-resilient circuits. Using a gen-
eral transformation from leakage-tolerant circuits, we obtain the ﬁrst
construction of stateful t-leakage-resilient circuits that tolerate a
continuous parity leakage, and the ﬁrst such construction for dis-
junction/conjunction leakage in which the circuit size grows sub-
quadratically with t. Interestingly, here we can obtain poly(t)-time
simulation even in the case of parities.
1
Introduction
A dream goal in cryptography is to design hardware that can perform gen-
eral computations on secret inputs while resisting arbitrary side-channel attacks
that reveal partial information about the computation. An extreme version of
this goal requires ideal (and unrealizable) ﬂavors of obfuscation. However, when
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2024
M. Joye and G. Leander (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2024, LNCS 14654, pp. 196–225, 2024.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-58737-5_8

Leakage-Tolerant Circuits
197
settling for security against limited classes of side channels, this goal becomes
realizable and has been the topic of a large body of theoretical and applied work.
A simple formal model for studying this problem is a leakage-resilient circuit
(LRC) [24]. Let L be a class of leakage functions with t-bit output. A (stateless)
LRC for a function f : {0, 1}n →{0, 1}m is a randomized Boolean circuit C :
{0, 1}ˆn →{0, 1} ˆm mapping a randomized encoding (or secret-sharing) ˆx of an
input x to an encoding ˆy of y = f(x), such that applying any leakage function L ∈
L to the wires of C reveals essentially nothing about x in an information-theoretic
sense. Assuming the availability of an ideal (leak-free) input encoder and output
decoder1, this gives an end-to-end solution to the problem of protecting the
computation of f against leakage class L.
There is a long line of works studying diﬀerent ﬂavors of the LRC question.
The vast majority of these works focus on the simple class L of probing leakage,
where L can only output the values of t (physical) wires in C. This baseline
model has been extended in two orthogonal ways:
From Local to Global Leakage. While the “local” leakage resilience captured by
the probing model is practically relevant and implies resilience against certain
kinds of noisy leakage [13], it does not capture global leakage that applies jointly
to an unbounded number of wires. This type of leakage may arise in realis-
tic side-channels attacks such as timing or power analysis that measure global
information about the computation. The study of such global leakage functions
was initiated in [16,25]. Most relevant to the current work are constructions of
LRCs against AC0 leakage, consisting of constant-depth polynomial-size circuits
over AND, OR, NOT gates with unbounded fan-in [5,6,16,30], and LRCs against
parity leakage and (more broadly) bounded-communication leakage [18,21]. See
Sect. 1.2 for more work in this direction.
From Stateless to Stateful Circuits. The simplicity of the LRC model makes it
an attractive object of study. However, this model is limited in two signiﬁcant
ways. First, it assumes leak-free input encoder and output decoder. Second, it
is limited to a one-shot scenario where a single computation is performed and
is subject to a small amount of leakage. In contrast, real-world computers or
embedded devices need to maintain a persistent secret state, and are subject to
continuous leakage which may be unbounded over time. The stateful variant of
LRCs [15,16,24] addresses both limitations by considering circuits with memory
that can be initialized with an encoded secret state, and can then “refresh”
the encoded state in each invocation. The main challenge in converting stateless
LRCs into stateful ones is to ensure suﬃcient independence between the encoded
input and the encoded output conditioned on the leakage. While there is a variety
of techniques for achieving this in the case of probing leakage [2,9,10,20,29], it
is not clear how to extend them even to very simple types of global leakage.
1 To avoid trivial solutions in which the computation is carried out by the input
encoder or the output decoder, it is required that the encoding of the inputs and
outputs be universal in the sense that it depends only on their length and not on C.

198
Y. Ishai and Y. Song
Indeed, most stateless LRCs are not known to have stateful analogues without
relying on leak-free components [5,14,16,21,26].
Leakage-Tolerant Circuits. In this work we focus on a diﬀerent extension
of the baseline LRC model, which is strongly motivated by the combination of
the two extensions discussed above. Recall that the basic LRC model does not
address the question of protecting the input encoding and output decoding steps,
which are assumed to be leak-free. A more desirable goal is to obtain a leakage-
tolerant circuit (LTC), where C maps an unprotected input x to an unprotected
output y = f(x) while providing the following best-possible security guarantee:
the output of any leakage function L ∈L can be simulated (up to a negligible
statistical distance) by applying a similar leakage L′ ∈L to (x, y). Thus, C is
“as secure” as an ideal (leak-free) hardware implementation of f.
Note that an LTC against L can be readily converted into an LRC against L
by using an arbitrary L-resilient encoding to protect the input x and the output
y. More interestingly, the strong security guarantee of LTCs allows them to serve
as a general-purpose replacement for ideal hardware with respect to leakage class
L. Jumping ahead, this may help bridge the gap between stateless and stateful
LRCs for natural classes L of global leakage.
The starting point for the current work is the observation that we currently
know virtually nothing about LTCs for general leakage classes. While LTCs are
quite easy to realize in the baseline case of probing leakage [1,23], this goal seems
much more challenging even for simple classes of global leakage. Indeed, no such
results are currently known. We thus ask:
Is leakage tolerance possible for any nontrivial class of global leakage?
1.1
Our Results
We initiate a systematic study of leakage-tolerant circuits for natural classes L
of global leakage functions. Concretely, we focus on the case of depth-1 leakage,
which consists of two distinct classes L that strictly generalize t-probing:
– Depth-1 AC0 leakage. This includes all leakage functions L that output t dis-
junctions (alternatively, conjunctions) of any number of wires or their nega-
tions. This simple kind of leakage is motivated by selective failure attacks
(such as buﬀer overﬂows), where a system fails if at least one of several com-
ponents fail. Existing LRCs for this class that do not rely on trusted hardware
either incur a high asymptotic overhead, increasing the circuit size by a factor
of Ω(t2) [6,30] (in fact, this is known even for higher-depth AC0 leakage), or
alternatively are restricted to the stateless case [5].
– Parity leakage. Here L may output t parities of any number of wires. In theo-
retical computer science, parities often serve as the natural next step beyond
probing: for instance, whereas a t-wise independent PRG fools t-probing dis-
tinguishers, a small-bias PRG [27] fools a parity distinguisher. From a more
applied perspective, parity leakage can be viewed as going “half way” towards
more realistic classes of global leakage, such as leaking the Hamming weight

Leakage-Tolerant Circuits
199
of subsets of wires. Finally, from a technical perspective this case seems chal-
lenging, because the standard LRC construction of [24] completely breaks
down in the presence of parity leakage. Nevertheless, eﬃcient LRCs for this
class (in fact, for the broader class of bounded-communication leakage) were
obtained in [18,21]. The question of obtaining stateful LRCs against parities
was left open.
We note that the question of obtaining LTCs for these classes is nontrivial
even for simple functions f, such as the mod-2 inner-product of two input vectors.
Feasibility of LTCs. Our main technical contribution is a general construction
of LTCs for depth-1 leakage, establishing the ﬁrst feasibility result for leakage-
tolerance with respect to nontrivial global leakage classes. Concretely, we show
that every circuit Cf computing a function f can be eﬃciently compiled into an
LTC C for f in which any t disjunctions/conjunctions/parities of the wires of C
or their negations can be simulated, with negligible statistical error, by making
t queries of the same kind to the inputs and outputs of C.
A limitation of our parity-tolerant circuit compiler is that the associated
simulator runs in time 2O(t). We give a (weak) partial evidence for the necessity
of ineﬃcient simulation, showing that a related leakage-tolerant encoding scheme
requires ineﬃcient simulation assuming the hardness of the learning parity with
noise (LPN) problem.
Application to Stateful LRCs. Finally, we observe that LTCs can be used
to bridge the gap between stateless and stateful LRCs. Extending a technique
of Faust et al. [16], we show how to obtain a stateful LRC for L by combin-
ing two ingredients: (1) an LTC for L, and (2) a leakage-resilient encoding for
L that resists two adaptive leakage queries. Using this general transformation,
we apply our LTC constructions to obtain the ﬁrst construction of stateful t-
leakage-resilient circuits that resist a continuous parity leakage, and the ﬁrst
such construction for disjunction/conjunction leakage in which the circuit size
grows sub-quadratically with t. Somewhat surprisingly, we show how to ensure
that the stateful LRC has an eﬃcient simulator even if the underlying LTC does
not. In particular, our stateful LRC for parities has a poly(t)-time simulator.
Future Directions. Several natural questions are left open for future work.
– Can we narrow the gap between LRCs and LTCs by obtaining LTC construc-
tions for other classes? While our construction for parity leakage is closely
related to the LRC against bounded-communication leakage from [21] (see
Sect. 2 for an overview), we are unable to extend our results to this class, or
even to the subclass of leakage functions that output the Hamming weight of a
subset of wires. In particular, our LTC for the parity case crucially relies on a
technique for reducing any parity query to a small number of probing queries,
which we are not able to extend to the case of Hamming weight leakage. The
LTC question is also still open for depth-2 AC0 (capturing polynomial-size
CNF/DNF formulas) and other classes for which LRCs are known to exist (see
Sect. 1.2).

200
Y. Ishai and Y. Song
– Is there a t-parity-tolerant circuit with a poly(t)-time simulator? Our simula-
tor needs to ﬁnd a short vector in a linear code deﬁned by the parity queries,
and we are only able to show that this is inherent for a related encoding prob-
lem. Note, however, that we can get around this limitation in the context of
the application to stateful LRCs.
1.2
Related Work
We survey here some related works on leakage-resilient circuits. While in this
work we focus on information-theoretic security, we are not aware of compu-
tationally secure constructions that achieve our goals. See [11] and references
therein for constructions with computational security.
Global Leakage. Simple classes L of global leakage considered in the literature
include AC0 leakage
[5,6,16,30], “only computation leaks” leakage [14,19,25]
and its extension to bounded-communication leakage [18,21], and even NC1 leak-
age [26]. Some of these constructions require trusted hardware components in the
stateful case or input encoder which is as big as the circuit for f in the stateless
case [14,16,26] and some rely on unproven conjectures [5,26,30]. Another class
of global leakage that was previously studied is captured by the noisy leakage
model [28], where a small amount of information about every wire is indepen-
dently leaked. However, the independence assumption makes this type of global
leakage reducible to local leakage [13].
Composable Probing Resilience. The notion of LTC provides general-
purpose composition guarantees. However, more reﬁned notions of composable
security can suﬃce in speciﬁc application scenarios. Such notions for the rel-
atively simple case of probing leakage have been considered in several previous
works (see [3,4,8,20] and references therein), with the primary goal of improving
the practical eﬃciency of t-probing resilient circuits for small values of t.
2
Technical Overview
This work initiates a systematic study of leakage-tolerant circuits (LTCs). We
start by describing the application of LTCs to building stateful leakage-resilient
circuits (LRCs) that achieve security against continuous leakage. This applica-
tion serves as a primary motivation behind this work.
2.1
Application: Stateful Leakage-Resilient Circuits
The notion of a stateful LRC aims to protect a general-purpose computing device,
which can be invoked any number of times and possibly update the contents of
its memory in each invocation. What makes this problem challenging is that the
total amount of information leaked across multiple invocations is unbounded,
and in particular is higher than the entropy of the secret state used to initialize

Leakage-Tolerant Circuits
201
this. This explains the fact that stateful LRCs are often much more challenging
to construct than stateless ones.
We consider here the model of stateful LRCs that was introduced by Ishai et
al. [24] for the special case of “probing” leakage and later extended by Faust et
al. [16] to general leakage classes. In this model, the ideal computation is deﬁned
by a stateful circuit C[s] that starts with a secret initial state s = s0. In the
i-th invocation, given its current secret state si−1 and an external public input
xi, the circuit C updates its secret state to si and produces an external public
output yi, where (si, yi) are a function of (si−1, xi). For example, consider
a stateful AES circuit in which the internal state is the AES secret key, and
in each invocation the circuit takes a plaintext xi as input and outputs the
corresponding ciphertext yi. In this example, the state in diﬀerent invocations
remains the same.
For an ideal stateful circuit C[s] as above, a leakage-resilient implementa-
tion consists of a randomized stateful circuit C′[s′] along with a randomized
mapping from an initial secret state s0 of C to the initial state s′
0 of C′, satisfy-
ing the following correctness and security requirements: (1) C′[s′
0] has the same
(reactive) functionality as C[s0], and (2) any adversary who interacts with the
stateful circuit C′[s′
0], adaptively choosing inputs xi and leakage queries Li ∈L
to the circuit wires for each invocation, should learn essentially nothing about
the secret state (in any invocation) of the stateful circuit C[s0]. In other words,
the view of such an adversary should be simulatable given the public inputs xi
and public outputs yi alone. Note that we do not protect external inputs and
outputs and in fact the adversary may arbitrarily choose the external inputs in
each invocation of C′[s′
0].
The simpler notion of a stateless LRC considers a one-shot computation of
a function f on a secret input x. To avoid a direct leakage on the input x or
output y = f(x), the inputs and outputs are protected by an input encoder and
an output decoder, respectively. Concretely, a stateless leakage-resilient circuit
is deﬁned by a triple (I, C, O), where I is a randomized input encoder, C is a
randomized circuit mapping the encoded input to an encoded output, and O is
an output decoder. Here we assume that the (single) leakage function L ∈L
applies only to the wires in C but not to the wires in I or O, and require that
the output of L reveals essentially nothing about the private input.
Note that LTCs are in a sense strictly stronger than (stateless) LRCs. Indeed,
we can use LTCs to construct LRCs by having the input encoder I encode the
input x using a leakage-resilient encoding (which is typically easy to construct),
then use an LTC C to map the encoded input to a leakage-resilient encoding
of the output, and ﬁnally let the output decoder O apply the decoding func-
tion of the leakage-resilient encoding. It turns out, however, that the stronger
leakage-tolerance property plays a crucial role in the context of composition. One
primary example is the construction of stateful LRCs. We start by discussing the
challenges in converting stateless LRCs into stateful ones, and then explain how
LTCs give rise to a conceptually simple transformation.

202
Y. Ishai and Y. Song
Transforming Stateless LRCs into Stateful LRCs? In [24], the authors consider
t-probing attacks, where the leakage class L includes all t-projection functions
that output t ﬁxed input bits. To construct a stateful LRC, they ﬁrst augment
a stateless LRC (I, C, O) to support additional public input and output, and
then simply concatenate such LRCs together. In more detail: (1) The initial
state is ﬁrst encoded under the input encoder I. (2) Then in each invocation, an
LRC C takes the encoded input and a public input, and computes the encoded
secret output and the public output. (3) The encoded output corresponds to an
encoding of the current state, which is used as the encoded input in the next
invocation.2
It is important to highlight the fact that the security of the above transfor-
mation relies on speciﬁc properties of the underlying stateless LRC and does not
work in general. To illustrate this, consider a stateful LRC that has no public
input or output and simply keeps its state unchanged. That is, the ideal stateful
circuit C simply computes the identity function on the state. A trivial stateless
LRC for the identity function can simply output the encoded input. However,
applying the ad-hoc transformation from [24] does not yield a secure stateful
LRC since in each invocation the attacker may probe t wires of the same encod-
ing and eventually learn the whole encoding, which reveals the secret state.
This problem is inherent when using stateless LRCs because there is no sep-
aration between the randomness used in the input encoding and the randomness
used in the output encoding. When using a general stateless LRC to construct
a stateful LRC, the same randomness may be under attack in diﬀerent invo-
cations and eventually revealed to the attacker. In this case, the encoding no
longer gives any protection to the secret state. While there are several formu-
lations of suﬃcient “separation” requirements for the simple case of probing
leakage [2,10,20], it is not clear how to meaningfully extend them to more pow-
erful leakage classes. Indeed, most previous works on stateful LRCs for global
leakage classes could only address this problem by assuming an ideal trusted
hardware that helps perform “refreshing” operations to guarantee the required
separation [5,14,16,26], or alternatively settling for computational security and
relying on indistinguishability obfuscation [11].
From LTCs to Stateful LRCs. We now describe a general approach for obtain-
ing stateful LRCs via a black-box combination of LTCs and a suitable type
of leakage-resilient encoding, extending a previous approach from [16] for con-
structing stateful LRCs using small trusted hardware components.
Suppose we are given a randomized encoding function Enc which is secure
against two adaptive leakage queries in the following sense: for all pairs of mes-
sages m0, m1, any (computationally unbounded) adversary who can adaptively
choose L0, L1 ∈L and learn L0(Enc(mb)), L1(Enc(mb)), where b is a random
bit, cannot guess b with non-negligible advantage. Given such an encoding, the
construction starts by letting s′
0 = Enc(s0). Then, in the i-th invocation, we use
2 One can use an encoded output as an encoded input since I and O are compatible,
in the sense that inputs and outputs are encoded in the same way.

Leakage-Tolerant Circuits
203
an LTC ˜C′ to decode the internal state si−1 from s′
i−1, invoke the ideal stateful
circuit C[si−1], and encode the new state si using a fresh invocation of Enc.
Relying on the leakage tolerance of ˜C′, the leakage queries made by the adver-
sary to the wires in ˜C′ can be reduced to leakage queries to the encoded states.
Since the states are protected by fresh leakage-resilient encodings, the leakage
queries to the encoded states can be simulated without knowing the states. This
concludes the stateful LRC construction.
Note that we need Enc to provide security against two adaptive leakage
queries since an encoded state s′
i is under attack in both the (i −1)-th invo-
cation and the i-th invocation, and moreover the leakage query made in the
i-th invocation can depend on the result of the leakage query made in the
(i −1)-th invocation. We summarize this transformation by the following infor-
mal theorem. We refer the readers to the full version of this paper for the formal
statement.
Theorem 1 (Stateful LRC via LTC, Informal). Let L be a leakage class.
Suppose there is a 2-adaptive L-leakage-resilient encoding, and an eﬃcient com-
piler transforming any (stateless) circuit C to an equivalent L-LTC C′. Then,
there is an eﬃcient compiler transforming any stateful circuit C[s0] to an equiv-
alent stateful L-LRC C′[s′
0].
Combining the above theorem with the LTC constructions we describe next,
together with simple leakage-resilient encoding schemes, we obtain the ﬁrst feasi-
bility results for stateful LRCs against parity leakage, as well as the ﬁrst eﬃcient
constructions of stateful LRCs against depth-1 AC0 leakage.
On Eﬃcient Simulation. We note that the simulation eﬃciency of the stateful
LRC construction described above is inherited from the underlying LTC ˜C′. If
˜C′ requires ineﬃcient simulation (in the output length of the leakage query),
then the LRC C′[s′
0] also requires ineﬃcient simulation. This will be the case
when using our construction for t-parity-tolerant circuits to build a stateful t-
parity-resilient circuit. In the full version of this paper, we provide evidence that
the ineﬃcient simulation of our t-parity-tolerant circuits may be inherent; see
Sect. 2.4 for an overview.
Fortunately, in the context of the stateful LRC application, we can still obtain
eﬃcient simulation regardless of the eﬃciency of the LTC simulator. At a high
level, our idea is to include a control bit b in the initial state. We modify the
functionality computed in each invocation by taking an auxiliary input: If b = 0,
then we ignore the auxiliary input and compute the output by using the internal
state and the public input as the original stateful circuit. Otherwise, we keep the
state unchanged and output the decoding of the auxiliary input. To achieve the
same functionality as the original stateful circuit, the control bit is set to be 0 by
default and we just use random bits as the auxiliary input. Now the construction
of the L-leakage-resilient stateful circuit is applying the above compiler to the
modiﬁed stateful circuit.
To obtain eﬃcient simulation, the simulator will set the initial state to some
default value and the control bit to 1. In each invocation, after learning the

204
Y. Ishai and Y. Song
public input and output, the simulator will replace the auxiliary input by an
encoding of the public output. In this way, the simulator can simply evaluate
the L-leakage-resilient stateful circuit with a fake initial state and compute the
leakage queried by the adversary. This can be viewed as an information-theoretic
analogue of the technique from [17] for converting witness-indistinguishability to
zero knowledge. We refer the readers to the full version of this paper for a formal
treatment.
2.2
Overview of Feasibility Results
Motivated in part by the application discussed above, our main technical contri-
bution is establishing the feasibility of LTCs for simple classes of global leakage.
We focus on the following two “depth-1” leakage classes:
– The ﬁrst contains all depth-1 AC0 functions. That is, every leakage function
L has t output bits, each obtained by choosing a subset S of its inputs and
computing the OR (alternatively AND) of bits in S or their negations.
– The second leakage class contains all parity functions. That is, each of the
t output bits of L is obtained by choosing a subset S of input bits and
computing their XOR.
We will give feasibility results of these two leakage classes separately in the
following two subsections.
But to illustrate the non-triviality of the question, we start by showing a
counter-intuitive result for the OR leakage class, where L outputs the OR of a
subset of input bits without negating them.
Negative Result for the ISW Construction. The standard ISW construction [24]
implements an LRC against t-probing leakage (i.e., the adversary can learn any
t chosen wires) using the following natural approach. Given a circuit C that
computes the function f : {0, 1}n →{0, 1}m, each wire w in C is transformed to
a bundle of wires wi whose parity is equal to value of w. One may interpret this
as generating an additive secret sharing for each wire value. This ensures that
learning t wires gives no information about the wire values in C.
It turns out that the same construction achieves leakage resilience against
AC0 leakage when setting t to be a security parameter κ [6]. This intuitively
follows from the well-known fact that AC0 cannot compute parities (though the
actual proof is much more subtle). Given this result, it is natural to conjecture
that the κ-probing-tolerant variant of the ISW construction also achieves leakage
tolerance against the OR leakage class, which is much weaker than the AC0 leakage
class. Surprisingly, we show that this is not the case even for a linear function f.
Counterexample. Consider the function f(x1, x2, x3) = x1 ⊕x2 ⊕x3. The
probing-tolerant variant of the ISW construction for f works as follows.
1. Input Encoding Phase: For all i ∈{1, 2, 3}, do the following.
– Prepare κ random bits xi,0, . . . , xi,κ−1.

Leakage-Tolerant Circuits
205
– Compute xi,κ = xi ⊕xi,0 ⊕. . . ⊕xi,κ−1 in order.
– Set [xi] = (xi,0, . . . , xi,κ). Note that the parity of bits in [xi] is xi.
2. Circuit Emulation Phase: Compute [y] = [x1] ⊕[x2] ⊕[x3] coordinate by
coordinate in order.
3. Output Decoding Phase: Set (y0, . . . , yκ) = [y]. Compute y = yκ ⊕yκ−1 ⊕
. . . ⊕y0 in order.
One can show that the above construction achieves κ-probing tolerance for f.
Consider the following attack: (x1⊕x1,0)∨(x2⊕x2,0)∨(x1,0⊕x2,0), where x1⊕
x1,0, x2 ⊕x2,0 are the inner wires in the input encoding phase when computing
x1,κ and x2,κ, and x1,0 ⊕x2,0 is the inner wire in the circuit emulation phase
when computing [y]. Using Boolean algebra identities, we have
(x1 ⊕x1,0) ∨(x2 ⊕x2,0) ∨(x1,0 ⊕x2,0) = (x1 ⊕x1,0) ∨(x2 ⊕x2,0) ∨(x1 ⊕x2).
Let r1 = x1 ⊕x1,0 and r2 = x2 ⊕x2,0. Then the above attack reveals r1 ∨
r2 ∨(x1 ⊕x2), which is equal to 1 with probability 3/4 and leaks x1 ⊕x2 with
probability 1/4. If the construction were OR-tolerant, then such an attack could
be simulated by computing the OR of a subset of x1, x2, x3, y = x1 ⊕x2 ⊕x3.
However, intuitively, the OR operation is not able to compute x1 ⊕x2 from the
above, which leads to a contradiction. We refer the readers to the full version of
this paper for the details.
2.3
Leakage Tolerance Against Depth-1 AC0 Leakage
It turns out that if we extend the OR leakage class to depth-1 AC0, by allowing
both the real and the ideal leakage to apply negations, then the ISW construction
becomes leakage-tolerant.
The reason for this unexpected phenomenon is that when we switch to a
richer leakage class, we strengthen not only the “real” leakage L that applies
to all wires, but also the “ideal” leakage L′ that applies only to the input and
output bits. Thus, for two leakage classes L ⊂ˆL, an ˆL-LTC is not necessarily
an L-LTC.
Single Bit of Depth-1 AC0 Leakage. Consider a linear function f(x1, . . . , xn) =
(y1, . . . , ym) where each yj is a linear combination of {xi}n
i=1. Let κ be the secu-
rity parameter. Recall the κ-probing-tolerant variant of the ISW construction
for the linear function f:
1. Input Encoding Phase: For all i ∈{1, . . . , n}, do the following.
– Prepare κ random bits xi,0, . . . , xi,κ−1.
– Compute xi,κ = xi ⊕xi,0 ⊕. . . ⊕xi,κ−1 in order.
– Set [xi] = (xi,0, . . . , xi,κ).
2. Circuit Emulation Phase: The circuit computes [yj] via a proper linear com-
bination of [x1], . . . , [xn].
3. Output Decoding Phase: For all j ∈{1, . . . , m}, set (yj,0, . . . , yj,κ) = [y] and
compute yj = yj,κ ⊕yj,κ−1 ⊕. . . ⊕yj,0 in order.

206
Y. Ishai and Y. Song
For all j ∈{0, . . . , κ}, let Ij be the set of wires that are non-zero linear
combinations of {xi,j}n
i=1 in the circuit emulation phase. We note that if we
arbitrarily pick a variable wj ∈Ij for all j ∈{0, . . . , κ}, then any κ variables in
{wj ∈Ij}κ
j=0 are uniformly random. This is because for all S ⊂{0, . . . , κ} with
|S| = κ, {xi,j}j∈S,i∈{1,...,n} are uniformly random bits. Then for all j ∈S, each
wj is uniformly random given {xi,j′}j′∈S,j′̸=j,i∈{1,...,n}.
Now consider a single bit of depth-1 AC0 leakage, obtained as follows.
1. An adversary ﬁrst chooses an arbitrary set W of wires in C.
2. Then the adversary may arbitrarily ﬂip some wires in W. Denote the resulting
set of literals (wire variables or their negations) by 
W.
3. Finally, the leakage is deﬁned to be OR(
W), where OR(S) denotes the result
of OR of all bits in S.
Our main observation is that, if for all j ∈{0, . . . , κ}, W ∩Ij ̸= ∅, then there
are at least κ variables in 
W that are uniformly random. In this case OR(
W) = 1
with probability at least 1−2−κ. Thus, we may simply output 0 as the simulation
of OR(
W).
It is therefore suﬃcient to focus on the case where there is j⋆∈{0, . . . , κ}
such that W ∩Ij⋆= ∅. We observe that in this case, every wire in W only depends
on a single input or output bit. In this way, OR(
W) naturally corresponds to a
depth-1 AC0 leakage on the input and output bits. At a high level, this can be
achieved by the following two steps.
1. Simulate all wire values in 
j̸=j⋆Ij. We note that this can be done without
knowing the input and output bits.
2. Given wire values in 
j̸=j⋆Ij, every intermediate wire in the input encoding
phase and the output decoding phase only depends on a single input or output
bit.
In the full version of this paper, we show how to extend the above idea to
handle multiple bits of depth-1 AC0 leakage.
Towards General Functions. Based on the positive result of the ISW construction
for linear functions against depth-1 AC0 leakage, we show how to construct
leakage-tolerant circuits for general functions.
Let f : {0, 1}n →{0, 1}m be an arbitrary binary function with circuit imple-
mentation C. At a high level, for each wire w in C, we will compute an additive
secret sharing of w. Then we will use the ISW construction to compute every
XOR gate and every AND gate.
1. For each input bit xi, we sample κ random bits (xi,0, . . . , xi,κ−1). To obtain
[xi], we want to compute xi,κ = xi ⊕(κ−1
ℓ=0 xi,ℓ). We view the computation
of xi,κ as a linear function and apply the ISW construction to it.
2. For each XOR gate with two input additive sharings [a], [b], we sample random
bits c0, . . . , cκ−1. To obtain [c] = [a+b], we want to compute cκ = (κ
ℓ=0 aℓ)⊕
(κ
ℓ=0 bℓ) ⊕(κ−1
ℓ=0 cℓ). We view the computation of cκ as a linear function
and apply the ISW construction to it.

Leakage-Tolerant Circuits
207
3. For each AND gate with two input additive sharings [a], [b], we sample random
bits c0, . . . , cκ−1. Then we compute aℓ1 ·bℓ2 for all ℓ1, ℓ2 ∈{0, . . . , κ}. Our goal
is to compute cκ = (κ
ℓ1,ℓ2=0 aℓ1 ·bℓ2)⊕(κ−1
ℓ=0 cℓ). We view the computation
of cκ as a linear function and apply the ISW construction to it.
4. After obtaining an additive secret sharing [yj] for each output yj, we want
to reconstruct yj = κ
ℓ=0 yj,ℓ. We view the computation of yj as a linear
function and apply the ISW construction to it.
Intuitively, by using the ISW construction for every linear function, it is
suﬃcient to focus on an adversary which only has access to the input and output
wires of the linear functions. These wires can be summarized as follows:
– The input and output bits of f: (x1, . . . , xn) and (y1, . . . , ym)
– A random additive secret sharing for every wire w: [w] = (w0, w1, . . . , wκ).
– For each AND gate with two input additive sharings [a], [b], the cross multipli-
cations between shares: {aℓ1 · bℓ2}κ
ℓ1=0,ℓ2=0.
Note that 1 bit of depth-1 AC0 leakage on these wires can be viewed as the OR of
two separated bits of depth-1 AC0 leakage: the ﬁrst part is depth-1 AC0 leakage
on the input and output bits, and the second part is depth-1 AC0 leakage on the
random additive secret sharings and the cross multiplications between shares.
We note that the second part can be further viewed as a depth-2 AC0 leakage
on the random additive secret sharings. Since we know that an AC0 leakage
cannot distinguish a random additive secret sharing of 0 from a random additive
secret sharing of 1, we may just replace random additive secret sharings for
wire values in C by random additive secret sharings of 0 and compute the cross
multiplications between shares accordingly. In this way, the second part can be
computed directly while the ﬁrst part is just a depth-1 AC0 leakage on the input
and output bits of the function. Thus, we have the following theorem.
Theorem 2 (LTC Against Depth-1 AC0, Informal). Let L denote the leak-
age class that contains all depth-1 AC0 leakage functions. For all binary function
f : {0, 1}n →{0, 1}m with circuit implementation C, there exists an L-leakage-
tolerant circuit for C.
Using General Linear Secret Sharing Schemes. In Sect. 4, we show that our
construction can be modiﬁed slightly to support any linear secret sharing scheme.
In particular, we can use packed Shamir sharings to achieve a better circuit
complexity for computing SIMD circuits. Relying on [12], which transforms a
general circuit to a SIMD circuit, we obtain the following corollary.
Corollary 1 (Informal). Let L denote the leakage class that contains all depth-
1 AC0 leakage functions. For all binary function f : {0, 1}n →{0, 1}m with
circuit implementation C of size s and depth h, there exists an L-leakage-tolerant
circuit for C with circuit size ˜O(κs+κ2h+κ3), where ˜O omits logarithmic factors
and κ is the security parameter.

208
Y. Ishai and Y. Song
2.4
Leakage Tolerance Against Parity Leakage
Unlike the depth-1 AC0 leakage, one cannot hope the ISW construction to be
parity-tolerant (i.e., leakage-tolerant against parity leakage) since we can easily
recover an intermediate wire value by XOR. At a high level, our result is obtained
in two steps.
Step 1. We ﬁrst deﬁne a new notion which we refer to as parity-to-probing
circuits. Very informally, given a circuit ˜C representing the function we want
to compute, a (t, k)-parity-to-probing implementation of ˜C is a triple (I, C, O),
where I is a randomized input encoder, C is a randomized circuit, and O is an
output decoder, such that the following properties hold.
– For any input x, we have O(C(I(x))) = ˜C(x) (with probability 1).
– Any t parity queries to the wires of C can be simulated by k probing queries
to the wires of ˜C. We refer to this property as parity-to-probing security.
– I and O admit circuit implementations in which any inner wire is a linear
combination of the input and output wires. We refer to this property as trivial
parity tolerance. Note that this property can be satisﬁed even by nonlinear
functions, such as x1 · x2.
We observe that when ˜C is a k-probing-tolerant circuit, any t parity queries
to the wires of C can be simulated by k probing queries to the inputs and outputs
of ˜C. We utilize this property and show that a t-parity-tolerant circuit can be
constructed from a (t, k)-parity-to-probing circuit.
We remark that without the last property, a parity-to-probing circuit is
strictly weaker than a parity-resilient circuit since the latter requires that any
parity query to the wires in C should give essentially no information about the
inputs and outputs of ˜C. However, our construction relies on the property of
trivial parity tolerance for the input encoder and the output decoder. On the
other hand, we show that the input encoder and the output decoder of a parity-
resilient circuit cannot be trivially parity-tolerant (see Claim 5.1).
Step 2. Then, we show how to construct a parity-to-probing circuit for any
underlying circuit ˜C. Our construction is inspired by the construction of [21].
We observe that the construction in [21] implies a (t, k)-parity-to-probing circuit
with the aid of a secure NAND gadget. In this step, we construct a circuit that
realizes the secure NAND gadget and show that after replacing the NAND gadget by
our construction in [21], the (t, k)-parity-to-probing security remains. Combining
with the ﬁrst step, we obtain a feasibility result for t-parity-tolerant circuits.
In the following we give a more detailed exposition of the above 2 steps.
Step 1: Parity-to-Probing Implies Parity Tolerance
Parity Tolerance vs. Parity Resilience. A natural attempt of constructing a
parity-tolerant circuit is to use a parity-resilient circuit (I, C, O) and implement I
and O by parity-tolerant circuits. However there are two issues with this attempt:

Leakage-Tolerant Circuits
209
– Constructing parity-tolerant circuits for I and O is not trivial.
The only previous construction of parity-resilient circuits is from [21]. While
the input encoder and the output decoder in this construction are not compli-
cated, it is still not clear how to implement them in a parity-tolerant way. In fact,
even constructing a parity-tolerant circuit for the mod-2 inner-product function
f(x1, x2, y1, y2) = x1 · y1 + x2 · y2 is not an easy task. The naive implementation,
which ﬁrst computes x1 · y1, x2 · y2 and then computes their sum, is not parity-
tolerant. This is because the inner wire x1 ·y1 cannot be simulated by one parity
query to the input wires (x1, x2, y1, y2) and the output wire x1 · y1 + x2 · y2.
– There is a quantitative loss when composing two parity-tolerant circuits.
Even if we have constructed t-parity-tolerant circuits for I and O (meaning
that any t parities of the wires can be simulated by t parities of the circuit inputs
and outputs), the implementation of (I, C, O) may not achieve t-parity tolerance.
Consider the following natural simulation strategy: For each parity query, we
view it as the summation of three parity queries, the ﬁrst one for the wires in
I, the second one for the wires in C, and the last one for the wires in O. The t
parity queries to the wires in C are not a problem, since (by parity resilience) they
can be simulated independently of the function inputs and outputs. However,
to simulate the t parity queries to the wires in I, we need to make t parity
queries to the inputs and outputs of I, which translate to t parity queries to the
function inputs and outputs. Similarly, to simulate the t parity queries to the
wires in O, we need to make another t parity queries to the function inputs and
outputs. These add up to 2t parity queries to the function inputs and outputs.
In summary, to simulate t parity queries to the implementation of (I, C, O), we
may have to make 2t parity queries to the function inputs and outputs.
Constructing Parity-Tolerant Circuits from Parity-to-Probing Circuits. Let f be
a function. Our goal is to construct a parity-tolerant circuit implementation of
f. We focus on a single parity query for simplicity.
Our ﬁrst attempt is to start with a k-probing-tolerant implementation ˜C
of f and then consider the (1, k)-parity-to-probing circuit (I, C, O) of ˜C. Now
consider the parity of a set W of wires of the circuit implementation of (I, C, O).
Recall that for a parity-to-probing circuit, its input encoder and output decoder
satisﬁes the trivial parity tolerance. Therefore, parity(W) can be computed by
some parity of (1) the function inputs and outputs, and (2) the wires in C. (Here
and in the following, parity(W) denotes the parity of all wires in W.) Now by
the parity-to-probing security, the parity of wires in C can be simulated by k
wires in ˜C, which can be simulated by k inputs and outputs of ˜C due to the
property of probing tolerance.
In summary, parity(W) can be simulated by (1) a parity of the function
inputs and outputs and (2) k wires of the function inputs and outputs. This
requires us to not only make one parity query but also k probing queries.
To address this issue, for each bit x of the function inputs and outputs, we
split it to k + 1 random additive shares with parity x. Then we apply the above

210
Y. Ishai and Y. Song
idea to compute ˆf which maps additive sharings of the inputs of f to additive
sharings of the outputs of f. We note that
– The k probings of additive sharings of the function inputs and outputs can
be simulated by choosing k random values.
– Given the k probings, any parity query to the additive sharings of the func-
tion inputs and outputs can be reduced to a parity query to the function
inputs and outputs. Furthermore, the encoding and decoding processes of an
additive sharing achieve parity tolerance for free, since every inner wire can
be computed by a linear combination of the additive shares.
Thus, our construction of a parity-tolerant circuit C⋆is as follows (See Fig. 2
for the complete description):
1. The circuit C⋆ﬁrst encodes each bit of the input x of f by a random additive
sharing. Let ˆx denotes the encoding of x.
2. Then let ˆf be the (randomized) function that maps an encoded input ˆx to a
freshly encoded output ˆy. Let ˜C be a k-probing-tolerant implementation of
ˆf, and let (I, C, O) be a (1, k)-parity-to-probing circuit implementation of ˜C.
Then C⋆runs (I, C, O) on ˆx and outputs ˆy.
3. Finally, the circuit C⋆decodes ˆy by computing the parity of each additive
sharing and obtains y.
The above idea is naturally extended to constructing t-parity-tolerant circuits
from (t, k)-parity-to-probing circuits and k-probing-tolerant circuits. We refer
the readers to Sect. 5.1 for more details.
Step 2: Constructing Parity-to-Probing Circuits. Now we turn our focus
to parity-to-probing circuits. Our starting point is the construction in [21], which
implicitly gives a (t, k)-parity-to-probing circuit with the aid of a secure NAND
gadget. We ﬁrst give an overview of the construction in [21].
Overview of [21]. Let ˜C denote the input circuit. The goal is to construct a
(t, k)-parity-to-probing circuit implementation of ˜C. Without loss of generality,
we assume that ˜C only contains NAND gates. The idea in [21] is to encode each
wire in ˜C by a small-bias encoding scheme. Very informally, an ϵ-bias encoding
scheme ensures that the parity of any non-empty subset bits of the encoding has
bias (i.e., diﬀerence from a uniform bit) at most ϵ. An example of a 1/2-bias
encoding is presented in Fig. 1. In the following, we will stick to the small-bias
encoding scheme in Fig. 1. The construction of (ˆI, ˆC, ˆO) is as follows:
– ˆI takes x ∈{0, 1}ni as input and computes a small-bias encoding for each
input bit: {Enc(xi)}ni
i=1.
– ˆC takes {Enc(xi)}ni
i=1 as input. Then ˆC computes a small-bias encoding for
each wire value in C′. Concretely, for each NAND gate in C′ with input x0, x1, ˆC
uses a secure NAND gadget to compute Enc(x0 NAND x1) from Enc(x0), Enc(x1).
– ˆO takes {Enc(yi)}no
i=1 as input and outputs {yi = Dec(Enc(yi))}no
i=1.

Leakage-Tolerant Circuits
211
1/2-Bias Encoding Scheme (Enc, Dec)
Enc(x; r0, r1) = (r0, r1, r0 · r1 ⊕x)
Dec(ˆx0, ˆx1, ˆx2) = ˆx0 · ˆx1 ⊕ˆx2.
Fig. 1. An Example of Small-bias Encoding Scheme
We ﬁrst verify that this construction achieves parity-to-probing security. Con-
sider a parity query which chooses a set W of wires in ˆC. Intuitively, if W touches
more than k diﬀerent small-bias encodings in ˆC, then parity(W) would have
bias at most 2−k, indicating that parity(W) is statistically close to a uniform
bit. On the other hand, if W touches at most k diﬀerent small-bias encodings
in ˆC, then parity(W) can be perfectly simulated by probing the underlying k
wires in C′. In Sect. 5.2, we show that the above analysis can be extended to t
parity queries.
As for the trivial parity tolerance, one can easily verify that this property is
satisﬁed in the following two circuit constructions for ˆI and ˆO respectively.
– For ˆI, which computes a 1/2-bias encoding of each bit x, the encoding is
computed by ﬁrst computing r0 · r1, and then computing (r0 · r1) ⊕x.
– For ˆO, which decodes a 1/2-bias encoding for each output bit, the decoding
is computed by ﬁrst computing ˆx0 · ˆx1, and then computing (ˆx0 · ˆx1) ⊕ˆx2.
Instantiating NAND Gadgets. Our initial attempt is to utilize the instantiation
in [21]. We note that the construction in [21] only focuses on parity-resilient cir-
cuits. Unfortunately, we do not know whether the (t, k)-parity-to-probing prop-
erty remains after applying their instantiation for NAND gadgets. In the full ver-
sion of this paper, we discuss their solution in details and show that:
– By using the parity-simulation lemma, the construction in [21] is a (1, k)-
parity-to-probing circuit. Together with our main theorem in Step 1, we
can compile their construction into a 1-parity-tolerant circuit. The parity-
simulation lemma and its proof may be of independent interest.
– On the other hand, we show that the parity-simulation lemma cannot handle
more than 1 bit of parity leakage. We also give a counter example which shows
that in general, a 1-parity-tolerant circuit may not achieve 2-parity tolerance.
In the following, we discuss our solution that gives a (t, k)-parity-to-probing
circuit. Our solution is speciﬁc to the use of the small-bias encoding presented
in Fig. 1. Let (ˆI, ˆC, ˆO) be the (t, k)-parity-to-probing circuit with the aid of a
secure NAND gadget from [21]. Recall that ˆC computes a small-bias encoding for
every wire of the underlying circuit ˜C. Suppose w = (w1, . . . , w| ˜
C|) are the wires

212
Y. Ishai and Y. Song
in ˜C and u, v ∈{0, 1}| ˜
C| are two vectors of random bits. Then, the wires in ˆC
are
(u1, v1, u1 · v1 ⊕w1), . . . , (u| ˜
C|, v| ˜
C|, u| ˜
C| · v| ˜
C| ⊕w| ˜
C|),
or equivalently, (u, v, u ∗v ⊕w).
Our main observation is that, the (t, k)-parity-to-probing property is pre-
served even if the adversary knows v and can do any computation on v. To be
more precise: For all subset W of wires in ˆC, the joint view of (parity(W), v)
can be simulated with statistical error negligible in k by probing k wires in ˜C.
Intuitively, it follows the fact that parity(W) is masked by ⊕i∈Iui · vi for
some set I. When |I| ≥k, as long as one of vi is not 0, which happens with prob-
ability 1 −2−k the mask value is uniformly distributed. As long as v is sampled
uniformly random and the adversary only learns v after choosing W, learning v
does not help the adversary to learn any information about w. This observation
allows us to do any computation on v when instantiating NAND gadgets while
preserving the parity-to-probing property.
Example: Using Our Observation to Instantiate XOR Gadgets. To explain our high
level idea, we show how our observation allows us to instantiate XOR gadgets.
Our instantiation for NAND gadgets follows a similar idea which is discussed later.
Given two encodings (u1, v1, z1 = u1 ·v1 ⊕w1), (u2, v2, z2 = u2 ·v2 ⊕w2), we want
to compute an encoding (u0, v0, z0 = u0 · v0 ⊕w1 ⊕w2). Since u0, v0 are random
bits, we just need to compute z0 = u0 · v0 ⊕u1 · v1 ⊕u2 · v2 ⊕z1 ⊕z2. The main
observation is that, given v0, v1, v2, this equation becomes a linear combination
of (u0, u1, u2, z1, z2), which can be implemented directly since the intermediate
results can also be obtained under parity attack on (u0, u1, u2, z1, z2). Therefore,
we ﬁrst compute z0 under all possible assignments of (v0, v1, v2) = (a0, a1, a2). In
the meantime, we also compute a bit indicating whether (v0, v1, v2) = (a0, a1, a2).
Note that the computation of indicating bits only depends on v. As we argued
above, these intermediate wires do not break the parity-to-probing security.
Finally, we use the indicating bits to choose the proper z0. In the actual con-
struction, we will ﬁrst prepare a random bit ρ and compute z0 + ρ using the
above approach to protect the secrecy of w1 ⊕w2. The overall construction is as
follows:
1. We ﬁrst sample a random bit ρ. Let f(v0, v1, v2) = u0 · v0 ⊕u1 · v1 ⊕u2 · v2 ⊕
z1 ⊕z2 ⊕ρ, which is just z0 ⊕ρ.
2. For all (a0, a1, a2) ∈{0, 1}3, compute f(a0, a1, a2) by a linear combination of
(u0, u1, u2, z1, z2, ρ).
3. For all (a0, a1, a2) ∈{0, 1}3, compute 2
i=0(vi ⊕ai ⊕1), which indicates
whether (v0, v1, v2) = (a0, a1, a2).
4. Compute z0 ⊕ρ = 
a∈{0,1}3 f(a0, a1, a2) · 2
i=0(vi ⊕ai ⊕1).
5. Compute z0 = (z0 ⊕ρ) ⊕ρ.
Note that the intermediate wires introduced in Step 2 are linear combination
of the input and output bits. The intermediate wires introduced in Step 3 only
depends on v. As for the intermediate wires introduced in Step 4, let ρ′ =

Leakage-Tolerant Circuits
213
z0 ⊕ρ. We may sample a random bit as ρ′ and compute ρ = z0 ⊕ρ′. Then the
intermediate wires introduced in Step 4 only depends on random bits v and ρ′,
which does not break the parity-to-probing security.
Moving to NAND Gadgets. For NAND gadgets, what we need to compute becomes
z0 = u0 · v0 ⊕(u1 · v1 ⊕z1) · (u2 · v2 ⊕z2). Even if given v0, v1, v2, this equation is
not a linear combination of (u0, u1, u2, z1, z2), which means that computing z0
given (v0, v1, v2) is no longer for free under parity attacks. To address this issue,
our idea is to also ﬁx (u1, z1) (or (u2, z2)) so that z0 is a linear combination of
(u0, u2, z2) (or (u0, u1, z1)). To be more concrete, we ﬁrst refresh the encoding of
w1 (and w2), i.e., computing (u′
1, v′
1, z′
1 = u′
1 ·v′
1 ⊕w1) from (u1, v1, w1). This can
be viewed as a Refresh gadget and can be instantiated in a similar way to XOR
gadgets. In this way, when analyzing the intermediate wires related to (u2, z2),
we ﬁx the refreshed encoding (u′
1, v′
1, z′
1) and now the computation of z0 is linear
as that in XOR gadgets. We refer readers to Sect. 5.2 for more details.
In the full version of this paper, we show that our construction maintains the
(t, k)-parity-to-probing security of (ˆI, ˆC, ˆO). Therefore, combining our result in
the ﬁrst step, we obtain a t-parity-tolerant circuit for any function f.
On the Need for Ineﬃcient Simulation. A limitation of our construction
of (t, k)-parity-to-probing circuits is that the running time of the simulation is
exponential in t. This implies that our construction of t-parity tolerant circuits
also has exponential-time simulation. We demonstrate this problem by taking the
parity-to-probing circuit (ˆI, ˆC, ˆO) constructed in [21] as an example. To simplify
the description, for two sets W1, W2, we deﬁne W1 ⊕W2 = W1 ∪W2\(W1 ∩W2).
Then parity(W1) ⊕parity(W2) = parity(W1 ⊕W2).
Recall that for a set W of wires in ˆC, if W touches more than k small-bias
encodings, then parity(W) can be simulated by a random bit. Otherwise, we
need to probes the set of wires of the underlying circuit ˜C whose encodings are
touched by W to simulate parity(W). We denote this set by V(W). Given W,
we can ﬁnd V(W) eﬃciently.
When we have t sets W1, . . . , Wt, only ﬁnding the sets V(W1), . . . , V(Wt) is
not suﬃcient since we have to consider the joint distribution of all parities. For
example, if W1 and W2 both touches more than k encodings, then V(W1) =
V(W2) = ∅. On the other hand W1 ⊕W2 may only touch less than k encodings.
In this case, we have to ﬁnd the set V(W1 ⊕W2) to simulate parity(W1) ⊕
parity(W2). In general, to simulate t parities, we have to compute the set V =
∪S⊂{1,...,t}V(⊕i∈SWi) which takes time exponential in t. (A remark about the
size of V : Although it is a union set of 2t subsets, we show that the size of V is
bounded by kt. See more details in Sect. 5.2 and the proof of Theorem 4 in the
full version of this paper.)
In the full version of this paper, we consider a relaxed notion of t-parity tol-
erance which we refer to as (t, t′)-parity-tolerant functions. Concretely, a (t, t′)-
parity-tolerant function requires that any t parities of the output of the function
can be simulated by t′ parities of the input of the function. Intuitively, one may
view a parity-tolerant circuit as a special kind of parity-tolerant function where

214
Y. Ishai and Y. Song
the function’s input is the circuit input and output, and the function’s output
is the wires of the circuit.
We give an example of a (t, t′)-parity-tolerant function that requires super-
polynomial simulation time in t under the standard LPN assumption. This may
serve as partial evidence that ineﬃcient simulation may be inherent for parity
tolerance as well.
3
Preliminaries
In this section, we deﬁne the notion of leakage-resilient circuits and leakage-
tolerant circuits for general leakage classes. We assume that the leakage classes
considered in this work are closed under restrictions, i.e., for all L : {0, 1}n →
{0, 1}m in L, for all S ⊂{1, . . . , n}, and for all xS ∈{0, 1}|S|, we require that
L(x) given xS is also in L. We note that all natural leakage classes (or their
simple variants3) considered in the literature satisfy this property. We borrow
the deﬁnition of leakage-resilient circuits from [21] as follows.
Deﬁnition 1 ([21]). For a (possibly randomized) function f
: {0, 1}ni
→
{0, 1}no, a leakage-resilient circuit for f is deﬁned by (I, C, O), where
– I : {0, 1}ni →{0, 1}ˆni is a randomized input encoder, which maps an input
x to an encoded input ˆx,
– C is a randomized circuit, mapping an encoded input ˆx ∈{0, 1}ˆni to an
encoded output ˆy ∈{0, 1}ˆno,
– O : {0, 1}ˆno →{0, 1}no is a deterministic output decoder, mapping ˆy to an
output y.
Let L be a class of leakage functions. We say C is an (L, ϵ)-leakage-resilient
implementation of f if
– Correctness: For any input x ∈{0, 1}ni, the following two distributions are
identical:
f(x) ≡O(C(I(x))).
– Leakage Resilience: For all L ∈L with input size |C| and for all x, x′ ∈
{0, 1}ni, the statistical distance between the distributions L(τ(C, I(x))) and
L(τ(C, I(x′))) is at most ϵ, where τ(C, ˆx) denotes the wire values of C when
taking ˆx as input.
For leakage-tolerant circuits for general leakage classes, we generalize the
notion of t-probing-tolerant circuits from [1,22,24].
3 For example, for parity leakage, we may include functions that compute the ﬂip of
the parity of a subset of input bits. For probing leakage, we may include the constant
functions that always output 0 or 1. These expansions of the leakage classes do not
bring more power to the adversary.

Leakage-Tolerant Circuits
215
Deﬁnition 2 (Leakage-Tolerant Circuit). For a (possibly randomized) func-
tion f : {0, 1}ni →{0, 1}no, a leakage-tolerant circuit for f is deﬁned by a ran-
domized circuit C mapping an input x ∈{0, 1}ni to an output y ∈{0, 1}no.
Let L be a class of leakage functions. We say C is an (L, ϵ)-leakage-tolerant
implementation of f if
– Correctness: For any input x ∈{0, 1}ni, the following two distributions are
identical:
f(x) ≡C(x).
– Leakage Tolerance: There exists a simulator Sim = (Sim1, Sim2) with the fol-
lowing syntax:
• Sim1 takes as input a leakage function L ∈L with input size |C| and
outputs a state st as well as a leakage function L′ ∈L with input size
ni + no,
• Sim2 takes as input a state st and the output of the ideal leakage L′(·) on
the input and output of f, and outputs a string b,
such that for all input x ∈{0, 1}ni and for all L ∈L, the following two
distributions are ϵ-close (in statistical distance):
(L(τ(C, x)), C(x)) ≈ϵ (Sim2(st, L′(x, y)), y) : y ←f(x), (st, L′) ←Sim1(L)
where τ(C, x) denotes the random variables of the wire values of C when the
input is x.
In this work, we are interested in three diﬀerent leakage classes.
– Probing Leakage Class: This leakage class contains all leakage functions L :
{0, 1}n →{0, 1} deﬁned by i ∈{1, . . . , n} such that L(x) = xi.
– Depth-1 AC0 Leakage Class (D1 Leakage Class for short): This leakage class
contains all leakage functions L : {0, 1}n →{0, 1} deﬁned by S0, S1 ⊂
{1, . . . , n} such that L(x) = (
i∈S0 xi) ∨(
i∈S1(xi ⊕1)).
– Parity Leakage Class: This leakage class contains all leakage functions L :
{0, 1}n →{0, 1} deﬁned by S ⊂{1, . . . , n} such that L(x) = 
i∈S xi.
We say L is the t-leakage class of L′ (denoted by (L′)⊗t) if L contains all leakage
functions L such that there exists L′
1, . . . , L′
t ∈L′ with the same input length
as L and L(x) = (L′
1(x), . . . , L′
t(x)). Thus, the above three leakage classes can
be naturally extended to their t-leakage versions: t-probing leakage class, t-D1
leakage class, and t-parity leakage class.
In the following, we use (t, ϵ)-D1 tolerance to denote leakage tolerance against
t-D1 leakage with error ϵ. Similarly, we use (t, ϵ)-parity tolerance to denote
leakage tolerance against t-parity leakage with error ϵ. Since there are known
results [1,24] that can achieve leakage tolerance against t-probing leakage with-
out error, we simply write t-probing tolerance for probing leakage.

216
Y. Ishai and Y. Song
4
Sketch of Depth-1 AC0 Leakage Tolerance
In this section, we give a sketch of our construction for leakage tolerant circuits
against depth-1 AC0 leakage (D1 leakage for short). We follow the overview in
Sect. 2.3 and show that the ISW construction [24] for linear functions achieves D1
tolerance. Then D1-tolerant circuits for general functions can be easily obtained
following the compiler in Sect. 2.3. We give the formal description in the full
version of this paper.
Recall that in Sect. 2.3, we show that the ISW construction for linear func-
tions achieve 1-D1 tolerance. The high-level idea is to separate the wires in the
computation phase to κ+1 disjoint sets I0, . . . , Iκ such that if we arbitrarily pick
a variable wj ∈Ij for all j ∈{0, . . . , κ}, then any κ variables in {wj ∈Ij}κ
j=0
are uniformly random. Based on this fact, if the leakage query touches wires in
all κ+1 sets, then the output is 1 with overwhelming probability. Otherwise, say
Ij⋆is not touched. Then every wire in C except those in Ij⋆only depends on a
single input or output bit. So the D1-leakage query to the wires in the circuit is
also a D1-leakage query to the input and output bits.
When considering t-D1 leakage, we use a (tκ + 1)-probing tolerant construc-
tion. We may similarly separate the wires in the computation phase to {Ij}tκ
j=0.
The observation is that for each D1-leakage query, if it touches wires in more
than κ sets, then the output of this leakage bit is 1 with overwhelming proba-
bility. By a standard hybrid argument, it is suﬃcient to only focus on leakage
queries that touch at most κ sets. Then at most tκ sets are touched by all
D1-leakage queries, and there is one set, say Ij⋆, which is not touched by and
D1-leakage query. Since every wire in C except those in Ij⋆only depends on a
single input or output bit, the t D1-leakage queries to the wires in the circuit
become t D1-leakage queries to the input and output bits.
Supporting General Linear Secret Sharings. We note that our construction for
general functions can be modiﬁed slightly to support any linear secret sharing
scheme that is tκ-wise independent. On one hand, it is known from [7] that a
tκ-wise independent secret sharing scheme is t-D1-resilient. On the other hand,
reconstructing secrets and computing a fresh random secret sharing can be done
by linear circuits for a linear secret sharing scheme. Note that for a general linear
secret sharing scheme, the multiplication of two secret sharings can still be done
by multiplying every two shares, one from each secret sharing. Reconstructing
the secrets of the multiplication result can be done by a linear circuit.
When using (packed) Shamir sharings, the multiplication of two secret shar-
ings can be done by multiplying two vector of shares coordinate-by-coordinate,
which reduces the overhead from O(k2) to O(k), where k is the number of shares.
What’s more, the packed Shamir secret sharing scheme allows to multiply a vec-
tor of O(k) secrets in parallel. Thus, our construction with packed Shamir secret
sharing scheme allows eﬃcient evaluation of SIMD circuits that compute O(k)
copies of the same sub-circuits. In [12], a general boolean circuit C with size s
and depth h can be transformed to a SIMD circuit with size ˜O(s + kh + k2),

Leakage-Tolerant Circuits
217
where the ˜O notation omits logarithmic factors. Since the ISW construction for
linear circuits blows up the circuit size by O(tκ), we have the following corollary.
Corollary 2. Let κ denote the security parameter. For all positive integer t and
for all f : {0, 1}n →{0, 1}m that admits a circuit of size s and depth h, there
exists a (t, t(s + 1)2−κ)-D1-tolerant implementation with size ˜O(tκs + t2κ2h +
t3κ3).
5
Parity Leakage Tolerance
5.1
Parity-to-Probing Implies Parity Tolerance
In this subsection, we focus on the ﬁrst step discussed in Sect. 2.4. We ﬁrst deﬁne
the notions of trivial parity tolerance and parity-to-probing circuits. Then we
give a general transformation from parity-to-probing circuits to parity-tolerant
circuits.
In the full version of this paper, we review the construction in [21] and show
that their construction is a parity-to-probing circuit against 1 parity query. We
also give an example showing that in general 1-parity tolerance does not imply
2-parity tolerance in the full version of this paper.
Deﬁnition 3 (Trivial Parity Tolerance). We say a randomized circuit C is
trivially parity-tolerant if every wire of C can be expressed as a linear combi-
nation of its inputs and outputs. We say a function f : {0, 1}ni →{0, 1}no is
trivially parity-tolerant if it admits a trivially parity-tolerant implementation.
Deﬁnition 4 (Parity-to-Probing Circuits). For a (possibly randomized) cir-
cuit ˜C : {0, 1}ni →{0, 1}no, a parity-to-probing circuit implementation of ˜C is
a tuple (I, C, O) with the same syntax as leakage-resilient circuits deﬁned in
Deﬁnition 1 such that
– Correctness: For all input x ∈{0, 1}ni, the following distributions are iden-
tically distributed:
˜C(x) ≡O(C(I(x))).
– Trivial Parity Tolerance: The input encoder I and the output decoder O are
trivially parity-tolerant.
– Parity-to-Probing Security: There exists a simulator Sim = (Sim1, Sim2) with
the following syntax:
• Sim1 takes as input t sets W1, . . . , Wt of wires in C and outputs a state
st as well as a set V of at most k wires in ˜C,
• Sim2 takes as input a state st and the wire values in V and outputs t bits
(b1, . . . , bt),
such that for all input x ∈{0, 1}ni and for all sets W1, . . . , Wt of wires in C,
the following two distributions are statistically close with error ϵ:
(parity(W1), . . . , parity(Wt), O(C(I(x))))
≈ϵ (Sim2(st, val(V )), ˜C(x)) : (st, V ) ←Sim1(W1, . . . , Wt).
Here val(V ) denotes the values of the wires of ˜C in V .

218
Y. Ishai and Y. Song
As we mentioned in Sect. 2.4, without requiring I, O to be trivially parity-
tolerant, the notion of parity-to-probing circuits is strictly weaker than parity-
resilient circuits as the latter requires to hide all the wires of the input circuit ˜C.
On the other hand, a parity-resilient circuit usually requires more complicated
input encoder and output decoder. In fact, we have the following claim stating
that any encoding scheme (Enc, Dec) cannot be both trivially parity-tolerant and
parity-resilient. To be more concrete, for a randomized function Enc : {0, 1} →
{0, 1}n,
– We say Enc is an encoding function if {Enc(0; r)}r and {Enc(1; r)}r have
disjoint support sets.
– We say Enc is ϵ-parity-resilient if for all subset W of the output of Enc,
parity(W(Enc(0))) and parity(W(Enc(1))) are statistically close with dis-
tance ϵ.
Let Enc : {0, 1} →{0, 1}n be an encoding function. If Enc admits a trivially
parity-tolerant implementation C, then Enc is not ϵ-parity-resilient, where ϵ =
1
4|C|.
We refer the readers to the full version of this paper for the proof of Claim 5.1.
Theorem 3. Let t, k be integers. Assume that
– For all function f, there is a k-probing-tolerant implementation of f;
– For all circuit ˜C, there is a (t, k, ϵ)-parity-to-probing circuit implementation
of ˜C.
Then for all function f : {0, 1}ni →{0, 1}no, there is a (t, ϵ)-parity-tolerant
implementation of f.
Proof. Let f : {0, 1}ni →{0, 1}no be the input function. Let n = max{ni, no}.
Our construction works for all encoding scheme (Enc, Dec) with the following
properties:
– Enc : {0, 1}n →{0, 1}ˆn is a randomized function such that (1) Enc outputs
its random tape, (2) each output bit is a linear combination of its input and
random tape, and (3) when the random tape of Enc are sampled uniformly,
any k bits of the output of Enc are independent and uniformly distributed.
– Dec : {0, 1}ˆn →{0, 1}n is a deterministic function such that (1) for all
x ∈{0, 1}n, Pr[Dec(Enc(x)) = x] = 1, where the probability is over the
randomness of Enc, and (2) each output bit of Dec is a linear combination of
its input.
A direct instantiation of (Enc, Dec) is that
– Enc : {0, 1}n →{0, 1}(k+1)n computes a random additive secret sharing with
k + 1 shares for each input bit.
– Dec : {0, 1}(k+1)n →{0, 1}n parses the input as n additive secret sharings,
each with k + 1 shares, and computes each output bit by the parity of the
k + 1 shares.

Leakage-Tolerant Circuits
219
Parity-Tolerant Circuit for f
1. Encoding the Input: The circuit C
samples random bits r for Enc, pads the
input x to be x 0 ∈{0, 1}n, and computes ˆx := Enc(x 0; r) by only using
XOR gates.
2. Computing Encoded Output from Encoded Input:
(a) Let
be the number of random bits used in Enc. Let f : {0, 1}ˆn×{0, 1} →
{0, 1}ˆn be the function deﬁned by
f (ˆx, r )
:
x ∗←Dec(ˆx), where x ∈{0, 1}ni
y ←f(x)
ˆy ←Enc(y 0; r ), where y 0 ∈{0, 1}n.
(b) Let ˜C be a k-probing-tolerant implementation of f . Note that ˜C is a
randomized circuit. Let (I, C, O) be a (t, k, )-parity-to-probing circuit
implementation of ˜C.
(c) The circuit C
samples random bits r and computes ˆy = O(C(I(ˆx, r ))).
3. Decoding the Output: The circuit C
computes Dec(ˆy) and outputs the ﬁrst
no bits.
Fig. 2. Construction of Parity-Tolerant Circuits from Parity-to-Probing Circuits
We describe the parity-tolerant circuit for f (Fig. 2).
Lemma 1. The circuit C⋆constructed in Fig. 2 is a (t, ϵ)-parity-tolerant imple-
mentation of f.
We refer the readers to the full version of this paper for the proof of Lemma 1.
5.2
Feasibility of Parity-Tolerant Circuits
According to Theorem 3, to obtain a (t, ϵ)-parity-tolerant circuit, it is suﬃcient
to construct a (t, k, ϵ)-parity-to-probing circuit deﬁned in Deﬁnition 4.
Our starting point is the construction in [21]. Let ˜C be a circuit that only
consists of NAND gates. Recall that the idea is to encode each wire value in ˜C
by a small-bias encoding scheme. In the following, we will focus on the 1/2-bias
encoding scheme in Fig. 1. Suppose
– w = (w1, . . . , w| ˜
C|) are the wire values in ˜C.
– u, v ∈{0, 1}| ˜
C| are two vectors of random bits.
Then, the compiler in [21] takes ˜C as input and outputs (ˆI, ˆC, ˆO) where the wire
values in ˆC are
(u1, v1, u1 · v1 ⊕w1), . . . , (u| ˜
C|, v| ˜
C|, u| ˜
C| · v| ˜
C| ⊕w| ˜
C|),

220
Y. Ishai and Y. Song
or equivalently, (u, v, u ∗v ⊕w).
We observe that (ˆI, ˆC, ˆO) is already a (t, k, ϵ)-parity-to-probing circuit assum-
ing NAND gadget for some proper k and ϵ. The intuition is as follows.
Intuitions. First, for each subset W of wires in ˆC, there is a deterministic set
V(W) of wires in ˜C of size at most k′ such that parity(W) can be simulated
with statistical error 2−k′−1 if we learn val(V(W)). More concretely, for a set W
of wires in ˆC, we may deﬁne a set V(W) of wires in ˜C as follows:
– If W touches more than k′ diﬀerent encodings, then we set V(W) = ∅.
– Otherwise, we set V(W) = {wi | some bit of Enc(wi) = (ui, vi, ui · vi ⊕
wi) is in W}.
Then, if |V(W)| ̸= ∅, parity(W) can be perfectly simulated if we learn
val(V(W)). If |V(W)| = ∅, then either W is an empty set, indicating that
parity(W) = 0, or W touches more than k′ diﬀerent encodings, indicating
that parity(W) is statistically close to a uniform bit with error 2−k′−1 (See
more details in the full version of this paper). In any case, parity(W) can be
simulated with statistical error 2−k′−1 when learning wire values in V(W).
Now, for two sets W and W ′, we deﬁne W ⊕W ′ = (W ∪W ′)\(W ∩W ′).
Then we have parity(W) ⊕parity(W ′) = parity(W ⊕W ′). Now for t sub-
sets W1, . . . , Wt, we want to simulate the joint distribution of parity(W1), . . . ,
parity(Wt). Let V = ∪S⊂{1,...,t}(V(⊕i∈SWi)). Then if we learn all wire values in
V , we can simulate parity(⊕i∈SWi) with statistical error 2−k′−1 for all subset
S ⊂{1, . . . , t}. By the XOR lemma (See more details in the full version of this
paper), we can simulate the joint distribution of parity(W1), . . . , parity(Wt)
with statistical error 2t/2−k′−1 from the wire values in V .
Regarding the size of V , we note that V(·) satisﬁes that for all subsets W, W ′,
if V(W), V(W ′) are not the empty set, then V(W ⊕W ′) ⊂V(W)∪V(W ′). Indeed,
– If V(W ⊕W ′) = ∅, then V(W ⊕W ′) ⊂V(W) ∪V(W ′).
– If V(W ⊕W ′) ̸= ∅, then for all wi ∈V(W ⊕W ′), some bit of Enc(wi)
is in W ⊕W ′. This implies that at least one of W and W ′ contains some
bit of Enc(wi), indicating that wi ∈V(W) ∪V(W ′). Thus, V(W ⊕W ′) ⊂
V(W) ∪V(W ′).
With this property, we can prove that |V | ≤t · k′. Thus (ˆI, ˆC, ˆO) is a (t, t ·
k′, 2t/2−k′−1)-parity-to-probing circuit.
Realizing NAND Gadgets. Thus, to obtain a (t, k, ϵ)-parity-to-probing circuit com-
piler in the plain model, our goal is to remove the NAND gadget in the construction
in [21].
We summarize our construction for NAND in Fig. 3 and refer the readers to
Sect. 2.4 for intuitions about our construction.
Our Construction. We summarize our construction in Fig. 4.

Leakage-Tolerant Circuits
221
Circuit for NAND
– Input: (u1, v1, z1), (u2, v2, z2), u0, v0
– Auxiliary Input: (u1, v1), (u2, v2), ρ1, ρ2, ρ3
– Output: z0 := u0 · v0 ⊕(z1 ⊕u1 · v1) · (z2 ⊕u2 · v2) ⊕1.
1. Refresh Input Encoding: The goal of the ﬁrst step is to compute
z1 = u1 · v1 ⊕(z1 ⊕u1 · v1),
z2 = u2 · v2 ⊕(z2 ⊕u2 · v2).
The circuit is constructed as follows.
(a) For all a ∈{0, 1}2, the circuit computes α1,a := u1 ·a1 ⊕(z1 ⊕u1 ·a2)⊕ρ1
and α2,a := u2 · a1 ⊕(z2 ⊕u2 · a2) ⊕ρ2.
(b) For all a ∈{0, 1}2, the circuit computes β1,a := (v1 ⊕a1 ⊕1)·(v1 ⊕a2 ⊕1)
and β2,a := (v2 ⊕a1 ⊕1) · (v2 ⊕a2 ⊕1).
(c) For all a ∈{0, 1}2, the circuit computes γ1,a := α1,a · β1,a and γ2,a :=
α2,a · β2,a.
(d) The circuit computes
z1 = ⊕a∈{0,1}2γ1,a ⊕ρ1,
z2 = ⊕a∈{0,1}2γ2,a ⊕ρ2.
2. Computing NAND on Refreshed Input Encodings: The goal of the second step
is to compute z0 from (u1, v1, z1), (u2, v2, z2), u0, v0:
z0 = u0 · v0 ⊕(z1 ⊕u1 · v1) · (z2 ⊕u2 · v2) ⊕1.
The circuit is constructed as follows.
(a) The circuit computes z1 · z2, z1 · u2, u1 · z2, u1 · u2.
(b) For all a ∈{0, 1}3, the circuit computes
α3,a := u0 · a0 ⊕(z1 ⊕u1 · a1) · (z2 ⊕u2 · a2) ⊕1 ⊕ρ3
= u0 · a0 ⊕(z1 · z2) ⊕a2 · (z1 · u2) ⊕a1 · (u1 · z2)
⊕a1a2 · (u1 · u2) ⊕1 ⊕ρ3.
by a proper linear combination of u0, z1 · z2, z1 · u2, u1 · z2, u1 · u2, ρ3.
(c) For all a ∈{0, 1}3, the circuit computes β3,a := (v0 ⊕a0 ⊕1) · (v1 ⊕a1 ⊕
1) · (v2 ⊕a2 ⊕1).
(d) For all a ∈{0, 1}3, the circuit computes γ3,a := α3,a · β3,a.
(e) The circuit computes
z0 = ⊕a∈{0,1}3γ3,a ⊕ρ3.
Fig. 3. Circuit Implementation of NAND Gadget

222
Y. Ishai and Y. Song
(t, k, )-Parity-to-Probing Circuit (I, C, O)
– Input: A randomized circuit ˜C with input size {0, 1}ni and output size {0, 1}no
– Output: A tuple (I, C, O)
Input Encoder I: For input x ∈{0, 1}ni, I(x) = {(ui, vi, ui · vi ⊕xi)}ni
i=1, where
ui, vi are random bits for all i ∈{1, . . . , ni}.
Circuit C:
1. Suppose the wires in ˜C are denoted by w1, . . . , w| ˜
C|. For simplicity, assume
that the ﬁrst ni wires are the input wires, and the last no wires are the output
wires. The circuit C takes I(x) as input and samples the following random
bits:
– u, u(1), u(2) ∈{0, 1}
˜
|C| where the ﬁrst ni bits of u are set to be the same
as those in I(x).
– v, v(1), v(2) ∈{0, 1}
˜
|C| where the ﬁrst ni bits of v are set to be the same
as those in I(x).
– ρ, ρ(1), ρ(2) ∈{0, 1}
˜
|C|.
2. For each random wire wi in ˜C, the circuit C samples a random bit as zi and
sets the encoding of wi as (ui, vi, zi).
3. We label the NAND gates in ˜C by the indices of their output wires. I.e., the
output of the
-th NAND gate is the
-th wire w . Let π1(·) be the function
that maps
to the index of the ﬁrst input of the
-th NAND gate, and π2(·)
be the function that maps
to the index of the second input of the
-th
NAND gate. Then the -th NAND gate takes as input wπ1( ), wπ2( ) and outputs
w = wπ1( ) NAND wπ2( ).
4. For each NAND gate in ˜C, suppose this is the
-th NAND gate and the input
encodings are (uπ1( ), vπ1( ), zπ1( )) and (uπ2( ), vπ2( ), zπ2( )). The circuit C
computes the subcircuit for the NAND gadget described in Figure 3 with
– Input: (uπ1( ), vπ1( ), zπ1( )), (uπ2( ), vπ2( ), zπ2( )), u , v
– Auxiliary Input: (u(1), v(1)), (u(2), v(2)), ρ(1), ρ(2), ρ
We set z to be the output of the subcircuit.
5. The output of C is {(ui, vi, zi)}| ˜
C|
i=| ˜
C|−no+1
Output Decoder O: O takes the output of C, denoted by {(ui, vi, zi)}| ˜
C|
i=| ˜
C|−no+1,
as input, and outputs y = (u| ˜
C|−no+1 ·v| ˜
C|−no+1 ⊕z| ˜
C|−no+1, . . . , u| ˜
C| ·v| ˜
C| ⊕z| ˜
C|).
Fig. 4. (t, k, ϵ)-Parity-to-Probing Circuit
Theorem 4. For all circuit ˜C, the construction in Fig. 4 is a (t, k, ϵ)-parity-to-
probing circuit, where
ϵ = 2
t
2 +1 ·
7
8
	 k
2t
.
We prove Theorem 4 in the full version of this paper.

Leakage-Tolerant Circuits
223
Towards t-Parity-Tolerant Circuits. By Theorem 3 and Theorem 4, we have the
following corollary.
Corollary 3. There exists a polynomial-time circuit compiler that takes as input
(Cf, 1t, 1κ), where Cf is a circuit of size s that computes f, and outputs a
(t, 2−κ)-parity-tolerant implementation of f with circuit size poly(t, κ, s).
Acknowledgements. Y. Ishai was supported by ERC grant NTSC (742754), BSF
grant 2022370, ISF grant 2774/20, and ISF-NSFC grant 3127/23. Y. Song was sup-
ported in part by the National Basic Research Program of China Grant 2011CBA00300,
2011CBA00301, the National Natural Science Foundation of China Grant 61033001,
61361136003.
References
1. Ananth, P., Ishai, Y., Sahai, A.: Private circuits: a modular approach. In: Shacham,
H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2018, Part III. LNCS, vol. 10993, pp. 427–455.
Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-96878-0 15
2. Barthe, G., et al.: Strong non-interference and type-directed higher-order masking.
In: Weippl, E.R., Katzenbeisser, S., Kruegel, C., Myers, A.C., Halevi, S. (eds.) Pro-
ceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications
Security, Vienna, Austria, October 24–28, 2016, pp. 116–129. ACM (2016)
3. Bela¨ıd, S., Cassiers, G., Rivain, M., Taleb, A.R.: Unifying freedom and separation
for tight probing-secure composition. In: Handschuh, H., Lysyanskaya, A. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2023. LNCS, pp. 440–472. Springer, Cham (2023). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-031-38548-3 15
4. Bela¨ıd, S., Goudarzi, D., Rivain, M.: Tight private circuits: achieving probing secu-
rity with the least refreshing. In: Peyrin, T., Galbraith, S. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2018.
LNCS, vol. 11273, pp. 343–372. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-03329-3 12
5. Bogdanov, A., Dinesh, K., Filmus, Y., Ishai, Y., Kaplan, A., Srinivasan, A.:
Bounded indistinguishability for simple sources. In: Braverman, M. (ed.) 13th
Innovations in Theoretical Computer Science Conference, ITCS 2022, LIPIcs, Jan-
uary 31 - February 3, 2022, Berkeley, CA, USA, vol. 215, pp. 26:1–26:18. Schloss
Dagstuhl - Leibniz-Zentrum f¨ur Informatik (2022)
6. Bogdanov, A., Ishai, Y., Srinivasan, A.: Unconditionally secure computation
against low-complexity leakage. J. Cryptol. 34(4), 38 (2021)
7. Braverman, M.: Poly-logarithmic independence fools bounded-depth Boolean cir-
cuits. Commun. ACM 54(4), 108–115 (2011)
8. Cassiers, G., Gr´egoire, B., Levi, I., Standaert, F.-X.: Hardware private circuits:
from trivial composition to full veriﬁcation. IEEE Trans. Comput. 70(10), 1677–
1690 (2021)
9. Coron, J.-S., Greuet, A., Prouﬀ, E., Zeitoun, R.: Faster evaluation of SBoxes via
common shares. In: Gierlichs, B., Poschmann, A.Y. (eds.) CHES 2016. LNCS,
vol. 9813, pp. 498–514. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-662-53140-2 24

224
Y. Ishai and Y. Song
10. Coron, J.-S., Prouﬀ, E., Rivain, M., Roche, T.: Higher-order side channel security
and mask refreshing. In: Moriai, S. (ed.) FSE 2013. LNCS, vol. 8424, pp. 410–424.
Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-43933-3 21
11. Dachman-Soled, D., Liu, F.-H., Zhou, H.-S.: Leakage-Resilient Circuits Revisited
– Optimal Number of Computing Components Without Leak-Free Hardware. In:
Oswald, E., Fischlin, M. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2015, Part II. LNCS, vol. 9057, pp.
131–158. Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-46803-
6 5
12. Damg˚ard, I., Ishai, Y., Krøigaard, M.: Perfectly secure multiparty computation and
the computational overhead of cryptography. In: Gilbert, H. (ed.) EUROCRYPT
2010. LNCS, vol. 6110, pp. 445–465. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-642-13190-5 23
13. Duc, A., Dziembowski, S., Faust, S.: Unifying leakage models: from probing attacks
to noisy leakage. J. Cryptol. 32(1), 151–177 (2019)
14. Dziembowski, S., Faust, S.: Leakage-resilient circuits without computational
assumptions. In: Cramer, R. (ed.) TCC 2012. LNCS, vol. 7194, pp. 230–247.
Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-28914-9 13
15. Dziembowski, S., Pietrzak, K.: Leakage-resilient cryptography. In: 49th Annual
IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science, FOCS 2008, October 25-
28, 2008, Philadelphia, PA, USA, pp. 293–302. IEEE Computer Society (2008)
16. Faust, S., Rabin, T., Reyzin, L., Tromer, E., Vaikuntanathan, V.: Protecting cir-
cuits from computationally bounded and noisy leakage. SIAM J. Comput. 43(5),
1564–1614 (2014)
17. Feige, U., Lapidot, D., Shamir, A.: Multiple noninteractive zero knowledge proofs
under general assumptions. SIAM J. Comput. 29(1), 1–28 (1999)
18. Genkin, D., Ishai, Y., Weiss, M.: How to construct a leakage-resilient (stateless)
trusted party. In: Kalai, Y., Reyzin, L. (eds.) TCC 2017. LNCS, vol. 10678, pp.
209–244. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-70503-3 7
19. Goldwasser, S., Rothblum, G.N.: How to compute in the presence of leakage. SIAM
J. Comput. 44(5), 1480–1549 (2015)
20. Goudarzi, D., Prest, T., Rivain, M., Vergnaud, D.: Probing security through
input-output separation and revisited quasilinear masking. IACR Trans. Cryptogr.
Hardw. Embed. Syst. 2021(3), 599–640 (2021)
21. Goyal,
V.,
Ishai,
Y.,
Maji,
H.K.,
Sahai,
A.,
Sherstov,
A.A.:
Bounded-
communication leakage resilience via parity-resilient circuits. In: 2016 IEEE 57th
Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS), pp. 1–10 (2016)
22. Goyal, V., Ishai, Y., Song, Y.: Private circuits with quasilinear randomness. In:
Dunkelman, O., Dziembowski, S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2022. LNCS, vol. 13277, pp.
192–221. Springer, Cham (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-07082-2 8
23. Ishai, Y., et al.: Robust pseudorandom generators. In: Fomin, F.V., Freivalds, R.,
Kwiatkowska, M., Peleg, D. (eds.) ICALP 2013. LNCS, vol. 7965, pp. 576–588.
Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-39206-1 49
24. Ishai, Y., Sahai, A., Wagner, D.: Private circuits: securing hardware against prob-
ing attacks. In: Boneh, D. (ed.) CRYPTO 2003. LNCS, vol. 2729, pp. 463–481.
Springer, Heidelberg (2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-45146-4 27
25. Micali, S., Reyzin, L.: Physically observable cryptography. In: Naor, M. (ed.) TCC
2004. LNCS, vol. 2951, pp. 278–296. Springer, Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-540-24638-1 16
26. Miles, E., Viola, E.: Shielding circuits with groups. In: Boneh, D., Roughgarden, T.,
Feigenbaum, J. (eds.) Symposium on Theory of Computing Conference, STOC’13,
Palo Alto, CA, USA, June 1–4, 2013, pp. 251–260. ACM (2013)

Leakage-Tolerant Circuits
225
27. Naor, J., Naor, M.: Small-bias probability spaces: eﬃcient constructions and appli-
cations. In: Proceedings of the Twenty-Second Annual ACM Symposium on Theory
of Computing, STOC 1990, page 213–223, New York, NY, USA, 1990. Association
for Computing Machinery (1990)
28. Prouﬀ, E., Rivain, M.: Masking against side-channel attacks: a formal security
proof. In: Johansson, T., Nguyen, P.Q. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2013. LNCS, vol.
7881, pp. 142–159. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
642-38348-9 9
29. Rivain, M., Prouﬀ, E.: Provably secure higher-order masking of AES. In: Mangard,
S., Standaert, F.-X. (eds.) CHES 2010. LNCS, vol. 6225, pp. 413–427. Springer,
Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-15031-9 28
30. Rothblum, G.N.: How to compute under AC0 leakage without secure hardware. In:
Safavi-Naini, R., Canetti, R. (eds.) CRYPTO 2012. LNCS, vol. 7417, pp. 552–569.
Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-32009-5 32

