Lightweight, Maliciously Secure Veriﬁable
Function Secret Sharing
Leo de Castro1(B) and Anitgoni Polychroniadou2
1 MIT, Cambridge, USA
ldec@mit.edu
2 J.P. Morgan AI Research, New York, USA
antigoni.polychroniadou@jpmorgan.com
Abstract. In this work, we present a lightweight construction of ver-
iﬁable two-party function secret sharing (FSS) for point functions and
multi-point functions. Our veriﬁability method is lightweight in two ways.
Firstly, it is concretely eﬃcient, making use of only symmetric key oper-
ations and no public key or MPC techniques are involved. Our perfor-
mance is comparable with the state-of-the-art non-veriﬁable DPF con-
structions, and we outperform all prior DPF veriﬁcation techniques in
both computation and communication complexity, which we demonstrate
with an implementation of our scheme. Secondly, our veriﬁcation proce-
dure is essentially unconstrained. It will verify that distributed point
function (DPF) shares correspond to some point function irrespective of
the output group size, the structure of the DPF output, or the set of
points on which the DPF must be evaluated. This is in stark contrast
with prior works, which depend on at least one and often all three of
these constraints. In addition, our construction is the ﬁrst DPF veriﬁca-
tion protocol that can verify general DPFs while remaining secure even
if one server is malicious. Prior work on maliciously secure DPF veriﬁ-
cation could only verify DPFs where the non-zero output is binary and
the output space is a large ﬁeld.
As an additional feature, our veriﬁcation procedure can be batched
so that verifying a polynomial number of DPF shares requires the exact
same amount of communication as verifying one pair of DPF shares. We
combine this packed DPF veriﬁcation with a novel method for packing
DPFs into shares of a multi-point function where the evaluation time,
veriﬁcation time, and veriﬁcation communication are independent of the
number of non-zero points in the function.
An immediate corollary of our results are two-server protocols for PIR
and PSI that remain secure when any one of the three parties is malicious
(either the client or one of the servers).
1
Introduction
Function secret sharing (FSS), ﬁrst introduced by Boyle, Gilboa, and Ishai [2],
is a cryptographic primitive that extends the classical notion of secret-sharing
a scalar value to secret sharing a function. FSS allows a party to secret-share
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
O. Dunkelman and S. Dziembowski (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2022, LNCS 13275, pp. 150–179, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-06944-4_6

Lightweight, Maliciously Secure Veriﬁable Function Secret Sharing
151
a function f : D →G and produce function shares k0 and k1. These shares
have several useful properties. Firstly, viewing either share alone computationally
hides the function f. Secondly, the function shares can be evaluated at points in
the domain D to produce additive shares of the output of f. In other words, for
x ∈D, we have k0(x) + k1(x) = f(x).
A point function f : D →G is deﬁned by a single point (α, β) ∈D × G such
that f(α) = β and for all γ ̸= α we have f(γ) = 0. We will often denote the
point function f deﬁned by (α, β) as fα,β. Distributed point functions (DPFs),
ﬁrst introduced by Gilboa and Ishai [9], are a special case of FSS that supports
point functions. Boyle, Gilboa, and Ishai [3] gave an eﬃcient construction of a
distributed point function.
An FSS construction is immediately applicable to the problem of constructing
two-server protocols, where a client interacts with two servers that are assumed
to not collude. Despite the simplicity of point functions, DPFs give rise to a rich
class of two-server protocols, including private information retrieval (PIR) [3],
private set intersection (PSI) [6], Oblivious-RAM [8], contact-tracing [7], and
many more [1,13]. These two-server protocols often have a similar structure.
For example, a simple, semi-honest PIR construction from a DPF begins with
a client generating DPF shares for the function fi,1, where i is the query index,
and the servers begin with identical copies of a database of size N. The client
sends one function share to each server, and the servers evaluate the share on
each index i ∈[N] to obtain a secret sharing of a one-hot vector. The servers
then take the inner product with their copy of the database to obtain an additive
share of the ith element, which is returned to the client.
Veriﬁable DPF. A crucial barrier that must be overcome in order for many
applications to be deployed in the real world is achieving some form of malicious
security. For the two-server model, this often means verifying that the client’s
inputs are well-formed in order to ensure that the client does not learn unau-
thorized information about the servers’ database or modify the database in an
unauthorized way. A DPF scheme that supports this well-formedness check is
called a veriﬁable DPF (VDPF).
In addition to constructing DPFs, the work of Boyle et al. [3] also constructs
VDPFs that are secure when the servers are semi-honest; a malicious server
is able to learn non-trivial information about the client’s chosen point (α, β)
through the veriﬁcation procedure. Even to achieve semi-honest security, the
VDPF protocol of [3] requires a constant-sized MPC protocol (consisting of sev-
eral OLEs) to be run between the servers to verify the DPF. The recent work of
Boneh, Boyle, Corrigan-Gibbs, Gilboa, and Ishai [1] achieves maliciously secure
VDPFs when β ∈{0, 1} and the output group has size at least 2λ, but they do
not extend their protocol to support general β values or smaller output groups.
They also require a constant sized MPC (also a few OLEs) to be run between
the servers to verify a single DPF share. More detail on these protocols is given
in Sect. 1.2. These works leave open the problem of constructing a maliciously-
secure VDPF for general β values, which we solve in this work.

152
L. de Castro and A. Polychroniadou
Distributed Multi-Point Functions. While DPFs result in a surprisingly rich class
of two-server protocols, in many applications [6,7] it is desirable to have FSS for
functions with more than one nonzero point. We call these multi-point functions
(MPFs) (see Sect. 4.2 for more details). Naively, this requires constructing a DPF
for each nonzero point. To evaluate the naive MPF share the servers must perform
a DPF evaluation for each nonzero point in the function. In other words, if a func-
tion contains t non-zero points and the servers wish to evaluate the MPF share at η
points, then they must perform t·η DPF evaluations. This clearly wastes a tremen-
dous amount of work, since we know that for each of the t DPF shares, at most one
of the η evaluation points will map to a non-zero value, and yet each share is eval-
uated the full η times. To maintain eﬃcient FSS for these multi-point functions, it
is clear that a more eﬃcient manner of batching DPF shares is required. Further-
more, the naive veriﬁable DMPF construction is simply a concatenation of many
veriﬁable DPF shares, which means the complexity of the veriﬁcation procedure
grows linearly in t. Prior works have left open the problem of constructing DMPF
shares with evaluation time and veriﬁcation complexity sublinear in the number
of nonzero points, which we solve in this work.
1.1
Our Contributions
Lightweight Veriﬁable DPF. We give a lightweight construction of a veriﬁable
DPF, which admits a very eﬃcient way to verify that DPF shares are well-formed.
This construction is light-weight in two ways. First, it’s performance is compara-
ble with the state-of-the-art non-veriﬁable DPF constructions (within a factor of
2 in both communication and computation), as we show in Sect. 5. In addition, we
strictly outperform all prior DPF veriﬁcation methods in both communication and
computation. These veriﬁcation methods often have strictly stronger or incompa-
rable constraints, such as remaining secure when the servers are semi-honest or
only verifying if β ∈{0, 1}. Unlike all other DPF veriﬁcation methods [1,3], we
do not make use of any public key operations or arithmetic MPC; for a security
parameter λ, our veriﬁcation procedure is a simple exchange of 2λ bits.
Second, the constraints on the veriﬁcation procedure are essentially non-
existent. We can verify that a DPF share is well-formed regardless of output ﬁeld
size, regardless of the value of the non-zero output element, and regardless of the
set of evaluation points the servers choose. This is in stark contrast to prior works
[1,3], which depend on at least one and often all of these constraints, as we describe
in Sect. 1.2. Our method is able to verify that there is at most one non-zero value
in any set of outputs of the DPF share, even if the set is adversarially chosen.
Eﬃcient Batched Veriﬁcation. Another novel feature of our veriﬁcation proce-
dure is eﬃcient batching. When verifying any polynomial number of shares in
our VDPF scheme, the communication for the veriﬁcation procedure remains
only an exchange of 2λ bits. This is because our veriﬁcation procedure for a
single pair of VDPF shares is to check if two 2λ-bit strings are equal (we explain
how these strings are generated in Sect. 3), so the two servers are able to check if

Lightweight, Maliciously Secure Veriﬁable Function Secret Sharing
153
many pairs of 2λ-bit strings are equal by simply hashing all strings down into a
single pair of 2λ-bit strings. This batching requires no additional computational
overhead beyond hashing the strings together. Furthermore, this means that the
communication to verify VDPF shares from many diﬀerent clients is bounded
at 2λ bits, and, to our knowledge, this is the ﬁrst eﬃcient cross-client batched
VDPF veriﬁcation procedure of its kind.
Veriﬁable FSS for Multi-Point Functions. Another immediate consequence of
our batched veriﬁcation procedure is veriﬁable FSS for multi-point functions. Our
VDMPF scheme goes beyond the naive construction, which is to simply generate
a pair of VDPF shares for each non-zero point in the multi-point function. As
mentioned above, when using this naive method for an MPF with t non-zero
points, a sever evaluating the MPF at η points needs to perform t · η VDPF
evaluations. We show how a simple application of Cuckoo-hashing can reduce
the number of VDPF evaluations to 3η regardless of the value of t. This is
at the cost of the client needing to produce and send roughly 2× the number
of VDPF shares as in the naive case, where these VDPF shares are at most
the same size as in the naive case. For even moderately sized t (e.g. t > 30)
this provides a tremendous savings in the overall computation time. Due to our
batched veriﬁcation, the communication between the two servers never grows
beyond 2λ bits.
Ultimately, we will show the following two theorems.
Theorem 1 (Veriﬁable DPF (informal)). There exists a veriﬁable DPF for
any point function f : {0, 1}n →G that remains secure even when one server is
malicious. For security parameter λ, the runtime of share generation is O(nλ),
and the size of a function share is O(nλ). For any x ∈{0, 1}n, the runtime of
share evaluation O(nλ). For the veriﬁcation procedure with η outputs, additional
runtime is O(ηλ) and the communication between the two servers is O(λ).
Theorem 2 (Veriﬁable DMPF (informal)). There exists is a veriﬁable
DMPF for multi-point functions f : [N] →G with at most t non-zero evalua-
tion points that remains secure even when one server is malicious. For security
parameter λ and a number of hash table buckets m = O(tλ + t log(t)), the run-
time of share generation is O (mλ log(N/m)). The runtime of share evaluation
is O(λ log(N/m)). For the veriﬁcation procedure with η outputs, the additional
runtime is O(ηλ) and the communication between the two servers is O(λ).
We implement our VDPF and VDMPF schemes and present benchmarks in
Sect. 5.
Applications. As a direct result of our veriﬁable FSS construction, we obtain sev-
eral protocols in the two-server model that are secure against any one malicious
corruption. More speciﬁcally, our veriﬁable DPF directly results in a maliciously-
secure two-server PIR scheme and our veriﬁable DMPF directly results in a

154
L. de Castro and A. Polychroniadou
maliciously-secure two-server PSI scheme. We exclude the presentation of the
constructions due to space constraints and because these protocol follow imme-
diately from our constructions. We give these constructions in the full version.
1.2
Related Work
The most relevant related work is the veriﬁable DPF constructions of Boyle,
Gilboa, and Ishai [3] and the subsequent work of Boneh, Boyle, Corrigan-Gibbs,
Gilboa, and Ishai [1]. We begin with an overview of the DPF construction of
[3], then discuss the semi-honest veriﬁcation protocols presented in [3]. We also
brieﬂy discuss the malicious veriﬁcation procedure in [1], which handles the case
where β ∈{0, 1} and the DPF output space is a large ﬁeld.
Overview of the Boyle et al. [3] Construction. The DPF construction of Boyle
et al. [3] is a function secret sharing scheme for point functions in the two-server
model. As described in Sect. 2.2, a distributed point function scheme allows a
client to run an algorithm (k0, k1) ←Gen(1λ, fα,β), where fα,β : {0, 1}n →G is
a point function. This client can then send k0 to a server S0 and send k1 to a
server S1. A single share kb completely hides the function fα,β; it completely
hides the location and value of the non-zero point, but not necessarily the fact
that fα,β is a point function. For any x ∈{0, 1}n, the servers are able to compute
yb = Eval(b, kb, x), such that y0 + y1 = fα,β(x).
The construction of [3] begins with the observation that a point function
diﬀers from the zero function (the function that outputs zero on every input)
on at most a single point. Therefore, they begin with the following protocol to
share the zero function. The zero function can be shared by giving each server
an identical copy of a PRF along with an additional bit that indicates if the
output should be negated. The servers S0 and S1 can then evaluate their PRF
on the same input x, then server S1 negates the output. The scheme will produce
outputs from the same input x that sum to zero, making this a secret sharing of
the zero function.
We can then instantiate this PRF using the GGM [10] construction, where
the PRF is evaluated by expanding a tree of PRGs, and the output of the PRF
is a leaf of this tree. Each input to the PRF will arrive at a unique leaf and will
have a distinct path through the tree. To turn this zero function into a point
function, we need to puncture a single path in this tree. In other words, we need
to ensure that there is exactly one path in the tree where the values at the GGM
nodes diﬀer. For a point function fα,β, the path through the tree and the location
of the leaf corresponds to α, and the value at the leaf corresponds to β. Since all
other paths will have matching nodes, they will result in matching leaves, which
become additive shares of zero. The GGM nodes along the punctured path will
diﬀer, which will result in this path terminating in leaves that do not match. We
will discuss in Sect. 3 how to arrange operations at the ﬁnal level to turn this one
speciﬁc mismatched pair into additive shares of the desired non-zero output β.

Lightweight, Maliciously Secure Veriﬁable Function Secret Sharing
155
As we traverse the tree, we maintain the following invariant. If we are along
the punctured path (the path leading to the leaf at position α), the PRG seeds
should diﬀer. If we are not along the punctured path, then the PRG seeds should
be the same. At each level in the tree, we need to ensure that as soon as we
diverge from the punctured path, the seeds will match again, bringing us back
to the zero-function state. To achieve this, a correction operation is applied at
each GGM node as we traverse the tree. One of the core contributions of [3] is a
method to achieve this correction operation. We make use of the same correction
operation and exploit its useful properties to obtain our VDPF construction.
More details are provided in Sect. 1.3.
Veriﬁcation Procedure of [3]. We will now provide a high-level overview of the
veriﬁcation procedures for the DPF construction of [3]. One of the main features
of these veriﬁcation procedures is that they view the DPF as a black-box. With
this view, the task becomes taking a secret-shared vector y = y0 +y1 of length N
and verifying that the shared values are non-zero in at-most one location. There
are several diﬀerent protocols presented in [3] to achieve this, although all follow
a basic template. These veriﬁcation procedures all begin by sampling a linear
sketching matrix L from a distribution L with N columns and a small constant
number of rows. Each server Sb multiplies their share yb by L to obtain a short
vector zb. The servers then run a simple MPC procedure is run to verify that z0
and z1 are well-formed. These veriﬁcation procedures are only secure when the
servers are semi-honest.
To give an example, the veriﬁcation for β ∈{0, 1} with an output ﬁeld F
begins by deﬁning a matrix L ∈F 3×N. Each column j of L is deﬁned to be
L1,j = rj, L2,j = sj, and L3,j = rjsj, where rj and sj are sampled uniformly at
random over F. The two servers begin with PRG seeds to locally generate this
L matrix. The servers then locally compute L · yb = zb, which is a secret sharing
of three elements z1, z2, and z3. Finally, the servers run an MPC protocol to
check if z3 = z1z2. In [3], it is shown that the probability this check passes if y
is not the zero-vector or a unit vector is at most 2/|F|. For security parameter
λ, this means that |F| must be at least 2λ+1; all veriﬁcation procedures given in
[3] require that |F| must be O(2λ).
To obtain a veriﬁcation for a general β, we can simply take the protocol
for β ∈{0, 1} and slightly modify the veriﬁcation procedure to account for a
β ̸= β2. In particular, the servers run the same protocol as above, but the
ﬁnal MPC check now veriﬁes that β · z3 = z1z2. The client provides a secret-
sharing of β to the servers to allow them to compute shares of the product β ·z3.
We conclude this description by noting that this construction is vulnerable to
additive attacks, where a malicious server can learn non-trivial information about
the client’s point (α, β).
Veriﬁcation Procedure of [1]. We now brieﬂy describe the maliciously secure
veriﬁcation procedure of [1]. Recall that this approach veriﬁes if DPF shares are
well formed and if β ∈{0, 1}. At a high level, this approach is an extension of
the check for binary β described above with checksum values added to defend
against additive attacks from a malicious server. Instead of sending a single

156
L. de Castro and A. Polychroniadou
DPF share corresponding to the point (α, β), this VDPF scheme consists of
two DPF shares: one deﬁned by the original point (α, β) and the other deﬁned
by the point (α, κ · β), where κ is a uniformly random element of the output
ﬁeld F. Intuitively, the purpose of this κ value is to defend against a malicious
server learning information about the non-zero point by applying additive shifts
to candidate α locations. However, the value κ must also be included in the
sketching checks in order to verify the consistency of the two DPF shares. This
task is prone to error. For example, if the servers were simply given shares of κ
directly, then a malicious server could learn if β was 0 if it applied an additive
shift to κ and the veriﬁcation still passed. This would occur because both β
and κ · β are 0 when β is 0. The overcome this, the method of [1] embeds the
κ value in an OLE correlation that the client sends to the servers. We omit
the details, but we note that, at the time of this writing, there is no published
method to extend this binary check to a general check in the same way as in [3].
We conclude this description by summarizing the complexity of this approach.
The computational overhead of the veriﬁcation includes evaluating the second
DPF share that encodes the checksum, as well as sampling the sketching matrix.
Then the sketching matrix must be multiplied by the output DPF vectors, which
is a constant number of length N inner-products. The communication of the
veriﬁcation procedure consists of 4 elements of F sent by each server over two
rounds of communication.
1.3
Technical Overview
We now give a brief technical overview of our veriﬁcation methods.
Our DPF Veriﬁcation Procedure. In our work, we observe that the correction
operation of [3] is limited in a way that is useful for us. In particular, the cor-
rection operation is designed to correct at most one diﬀerence per level. With
this observation, we can construct a simple veriﬁcation procedure by extending
the GGM tree by one level. This level takes each leaf in the original tree and
produces two children: a left leaf and a right leaf. The left leaves can all be
equivalent to the parent, while the right leaves should all correspond to a zero
output. This means that all pairs of right leaves in the two DPF shares should be
equal. Since the correction word can only correct one diﬀerence, if all the right
leaves are the same, then there can be at most one diﬀerence in the previous
level, meaning that all but one of the left leaves must be the same. The location
of the diﬀering left leaf is the α value, and the value produced by the diﬀering
leaves is the β value. All other left leaves will be equal, thus corresponding to the
zero output. Since the DPF evaluation is completely deterministic, the α and β
values that deﬁne the point function can be deterministically extracted from any
pair of DPF shares that pass this veriﬁcation check, meaning that regardless of
the method a malicious client uses to generate the DPF shares, if the veriﬁcation
check passes then the servers have the guarantee that the shares encode a DPF
deﬁned by this (α, β) pair.

Lightweight, Maliciously Secure Veriﬁable Function Secret Sharing
157
Furthermore, the servers need only check that all of their right leaves (which
they can hash down into a single string of length 2λ) are equal, meaning that
if the DPF shares are well formed the servers’ messages to each other are per-
fectly simulatable. Therefore, this veriﬁcation method introduces zero additional
privacy risk to an honest client even when one of the servers is malicious. This
security extends to verifying a polynomial number of DPF shares from the same
client or diﬀerent clients, since an equality check that will always pass for honest
clients will not leak information about the honest clients’ choices of α and β.
For more details and intuition about this approach, see Sect. 3.
Multi-point Function Packing. A natural application of our packed veriﬁcation
technique is to verify multi-point functions, since the communication for the
veriﬁcation will not increase as the number of non-zero points grows. As discussed
above, the naive construction of a multi-point function with t non-zero points
requires time linear in t for each evaluation. This is prohibitively expensive for
applications where the servers must evaluate the DMPF at many points. To
avoid this linear scaling of the evaluation time, we observe that in the list of
tuples (α1, β1), . . . , (αt, βt) all of the α values are unique. Therefore, for each
evaluation point x, the output of at most one of the DPFs will be nonzero,
which occurs if x = αi. This means that our DMPF evaluation algorithm only
needs to guarantee that the evaluation point x will be evaluated on the DPF
with αi = x if this point is nonzero in the MPF.
Towards this goal, we have the client insert the values α1, . . . , αt into a
Cuckoo-hash table. At a high level, a Cuckoo-hash table is deﬁned by a list
of m buckets and κ = O(1) of hash functions h1, . . . , hκ (in our case we use
κ = 3). Each hash function has an output space that is {1, . . . , m}, and each
element α inserted in the table is at an index i = hj(α) for some 1 ≤j ≤κ.
The client constructs a DMPF share from this Cuckoo-hash table by creating
a DPF share for each bucket in the table. The empty buckets will hold a DPF
that shares the zero function, and the buckets that hold an index αi hold a DPF
that shares fαi,βi. The domain of this DPF can be the same as the domain of
the MPF, so the index of this non-zero point is simply αi. The client then sends
these m DPF shares to the server along with the hash functions deﬁning the
Cuckoo-hash table. To evaluate a point x on these shares, the servers simply
hash x with each of the κ hash functions to get κ candidate buckets. If x = αi
for one of the non-zero points in the MPF, the guarantee is that αi is in one
of these buckets, so the servers evaluate only these κ DPFs at x then sum the
result. This is an MPF evaluation procedure with a runtime that does not grow
with the number of non-zero points in the MPF. In Sect. 4, we discuss a variant
of this method that allows the domain of the DPFs for Cuckoo-hash buckets to
shrink as the number of nonzero points grows, further speeding up evaluation
time.
To maintain client privacy, we must ensure that the Cuckoo-hash table does
not leak information about the client’s choice of α1, . . . , αt values. The only infor-
mation that is leaked from the Cuckoo-hash table is that the client’s choice of
non-zero indices did not fail to be inserted in this Cuckoo-hash table. Therefore,

158
L. de Castro and A. Polychroniadou
we must choose parameters for the Cuckoo-hash table such that the probability
of failure is at most 2−λ for security parameter λ. For a ﬁxed κ, the failure prob-
ability of a Cuckoo-hash table shrinks as the number of buckets m increases.
For κ = 3 and λ = 80, we get an upper bound on the number of buckets as
m ≤2t for nearly all practical values of t. Therefore, for less than a 2× growth
in the client computation and the client-server communication, we can achieve
this signiﬁcant improvement in the servers’ evaluation time.
To verify that these DMPF shares are well-formed, we can simply put ver-
iﬁable DPF shares in the buckets. Since the DPF veriﬁcation method can be
packed, the communication between the two servers never grows beyond the 2λ
equality check, and the security against a malicious server is maintained. Our
only sacriﬁce is in the veriﬁcation of the number of nonzero points in the DMPF.
The naive approach would allow the servers to verify that there are at most t
nonzero points in the MPF, while the Cuckoo-hashing approach only allows the
servers to verify that there are at most m nonzero points in the MPF. However,
as we mentioned, for nearly all settings of t we get m ≤2t, and we believe this
gap is acceptable for many applications.
2
Background
2.1
Notation
Let T be a complete binary tree with 2n leaves. If we index each leaf from 0 to
2n −1, let v(n)
α
be the leaf at index α ∈{0, 1}n. Let v(i)
α
be the node at the ith
level of T such that v(n)
α
is in the subtree rooted at v(i)
α . We will sometimes refer
to v(i)
α
as the ith node along the path to α.
For a ﬁnite set S, we will denote sampling a uniformly random element x as
x
$←−S.
For n ∈N, we denote the set [n] := {1, . . . , n}.
We will denote a set of n-bit strings as either {xi}L
i=1 or simply as x if the
length is not relevant or clear from context.
For a parameter λ, we say that a function negl(λ) is negligible in λ if it shrinks
faster than all polynomials in λ. In other words, for all polynomials poly(λ), there
exists a λ′ such that for all λ > λ′ we have negl(λ) < poly(λ).
2.2
Function Secret Sharing
In this section, we give a high level deﬁnition of function secret sharing and
distributed point functions. A function secret sharing scheme takes a function
f : D →R and generates two function shares f0 and f1. These function shares
can be evaluated a points x ∈D such that fb(x) = yb and y0 +y1 = y = f(x). In
other words, when evaluated at an input x the function shares produce additive
secret shares of the function output. It is currently an open problem to construct
an eﬃcient FSS scheme where the function is split into more than two shares [4].

Lightweight, Maliciously Secure Veriﬁable Function Secret Sharing
159
Deﬁnition 1 (Function Secret Sharing, Syntax & Correctness [2,3]).
A function secret sharing scheme is deﬁned by two PPT algorithms. These
algorithms are parametrized by a function class F of functions between a domain
D and a range R.
– FSS.Gen(1λ, f ∈F) →(k0, k1)
The FSS.Gen algorithm takes in a function f ∈F and generates two FSS keys
k0 and k1.
– FSS.Eval(b, kb, x ∈D) →yb
The FSS.Eval algorithm takes in an x ∈D and outputs an additive share
yb ∈R of the value y = f(x). In other words, y0 + y1 = y = f(x).
We now give the basic security property that an FSS scheme must satisfy.
Deﬁnition 2 (FSS Security: Function Privacy [2,3]). Let FSS be a function
secret sharing scheme for the function class F, as deﬁned in Deﬁnition 1. For
any f, f ′ ∈F, the following should hold:
{kb | (k0, k1) ←FSS.Gen({0, 1}, f)} ≈c
{k′
b | (k′
0, k′
1) ←FSS.Gen({0, 1}, f ′)},
for b ∈{0, 1}
In words, the marginal distribution of one of the FSS keys computationally hides
the function used to compute the share.
We now give the deﬁnition of a distributed point function (DPF) in terms of
the FSS deﬁnitions above. We begin by deﬁning a point function.
Deﬁnition 3 (Point Function). A function f : D →R is a point function if
there is α ∈D and β ∈R such that the following holds:
fα,β(x) =
β
x = α
0
x ̸= α
Throughout this work, we will be interested in point functions with domain
D = {0, 1}n and range R = G for a group G.
Deﬁnition 4 (Distributed Point Function). Let Fn,G be the class of point
functions with domain D = {0, 1}n and range R = G. We call an FSS scheme
a Distributed Point Function scheme if it supports the function class F.
3
Lightweight, Veriﬁable DPF
3.1
Deﬁnitions
We begin by deﬁning a veriﬁable DPF. We deﬁne correctness and security for a
batched evaluation, since the veriﬁcation procedure operates is deﬁned over a set
of outputs. The procedure ensures that at-most one of these outputs is non-zero.

160
L. de Castro and A. Polychroniadou
Deﬁnition 5 (Veriﬁable DPF, denoted VerDPFn,G). A veriﬁable distributed
point function scheme VerDPFn,G supports the function class F of point func-
tions f : {0, 1}n →G. It is deﬁned by three PPT algorithms. Deﬁne VerDPF :=
VerDPFn,G.
– VerDPF.Gen(1λ, fα,β) →(k0, k1)
This is the FSS share generation algorithm. It takes in a function fα,β and
generates two shares k0 and k1.
– VerDPF.BVEval(b, kb, {xi}L
i=1) →

{y(xi)
b
}L
i=1, πb

This is the veriﬁable evaluation algorithm, denoted BVEval for batch veriﬁable
evaluation. It takes in a set of L inputs {xi}L
i=1, where each xi ∈{0, 1}n, and
outputs a tuple of values. The ﬁrst set of values are the FSS outputs, which
take the form y(xi)
b
for i ∈[L] satisfying y(xi)
0
+ y(xi)
1
= f(xi). The second
output is a proof πb that is used to verify the well-formedness of the output.
– VerDPF.Verify(π0, π1) →Accept/Reject
For some pair of VerDPF keys (k0, k1), the VerDPF.Verify algorithm takes in
the proofs π0 and π1 from (yb, πb) ←BVEval(b, kb, {xi}L
i=1) and outputs either
Accept or Reject. The output should only be Accept if y0 +y1 deﬁnes the truth
table of some point function, which occurs if it is non-zero in at most one
location.
Correctness for a veriﬁable DPF is deﬁned in the same way as correctness for
any FSS scheme, as in Deﬁnition 1. To verify that the entire share is well-formed,
the BVEval algorithm can be run on the whole domain. We give a more eﬃcient
algorithm for evaluating our veriﬁable DPF on the whole domain in Algorithm
3, which uses techniques from Boyle et al. [3] to save a factor of n on the overall
runtime.
We now deﬁne security for a veriﬁable DPF. Note that we are only interested
in detecting a malformed share when the evaluators are semi-honest. However,
we do require that even a malicious evaluator does not learn any information
about the shared function; in other words, we require that the veriﬁcation process
does not compromise the function privacy of an honestly generated DPF share
if one of the evaluators is malicious.
Deﬁnition 6 (Veriﬁable DPF Share Integrity, or Security Against
Malicious Share Generation).
Let VerDPF := VerDPFn,G, and let kb be
the (possibly maliciously generated) share received by server Sb. For an adver-
sarially chosen set of inputs {xi}η
i=1, let ({y(xi)
b
}η
i=1, πb) ←VerDPF.BVEval(b,
kb, {xi}η
i=1). We say that VerDPF is secure against malicious share generation
if the the following holds with all but negligible probability over the adversary’s
choice of randomness. If VerDPF.Verify(π0, π1) outputs Accept, then the values
y(xi)
0
+ y(xi)
1
must be non-zero in at most one location.
Deﬁnition 7 (Veriﬁable DPF Function Privacy, or Security Against a
Malicious Evaluator). Let VerDPF := VerDPFn,G support the class of point
functions F with domain {0, 1}n and range G. For a set of function inputs x,

Lightweight, Maliciously Secure Veriﬁable Function Secret Sharing
161
deﬁne the distribution representing the view of server Sb for a ﬁxed function
f ∈F.
ViewVerDPF(b, f, x) :=

(kb, π1−b)

(k0, k1) ←VerDPF.Gen(1λ, f),
( , π1−b) ←VerDPF.BVEval(1 −b, k1−b, x)

We say that VerDPF maintains function privacy if there exists a PPT simulator
Sim such that for any adversarially chosen x the following two distributions are
computationally indistinguishable for any f ∈F.

(kb, π1−b) | (kb, π1−b) ←ViewVerDPF(b, f, x)

≈c

(k∗, π∗) | (k∗, π∗) ←Sim(1λ, b, n, G, x)

3.2
Our Construction
In this DPF scheme, the shares of the point function are k0 and k1. Each key
kb contains a starting seed s(0)
b
that deﬁnes the root of a GGM-style binary
tree, where at each node there is a PRG seed that is expanded into two seeds
that comprise the left and the right child of that node. However, the seeds that
deﬁne the left and right children are not the direct output of the PRG; instead,
we apply a correction operation to the PRG output in order to maintain the
required property of these trees, which we call the “DPF invariant.”
In addition to the PRG seed, each node is associated with a control bit, which
is one additional bit of information that is updated along with the seed during
the correction operation. This control bit is used in the correction operation,
and its purpose is to maintain the DPF invariant.
Deﬁnition 8 (DPF Invariant). Let DPF = DPFn,G, and let
(k0, k1) ←DPF.Gen(1λ, fα,β)
for α ∈{0, 1}n. Each key kb deﬁnes a binary tree Tb with 2n leaves, and each
node in the tree is associated with a PRG seed and a control bit.
For a ﬁxed node location, let s0, t0 be the seed and control bit associate with
the node in T0, and let s1, t1 be the seed and control bit associated with the node
in T1. The DPF invariant is deﬁned as the following:
s0 = s1 and t0 = t1
if the node is not along the path to α.
t0 ̸= t1
if the node is along the path to α.
In our construction, it is also very likely that s0 ̸= s1 if the node is along the
path to α, but this requirement is not necessary for the invariant.
From this invariant, we maintain that at each level there is exactly one place
in which the two trees diﬀer, which is the node in that level corresponding to
the path to α. At the ﬁnal level, all of the 2n leaves in both trees will be the

162
L. de Castro and A. Polychroniadou
Algorithm 1. VerDPFn,G node expansion, denoted NodeExpand. This algorithm
describes generating the child nodes from the parent node in the DPF tree.
Input: PRG G : {0, 1}λ →{0, 1}2λ+2
Seed s ∈{0, 1}λ, control bit t ∈{0, 1}.
Correction word cw = (sc, tL
c , tR
c ).
1: Expand (sL, tL, sR, tR) ←G(s)
2: s′
0 ←correct(sL, sc, t) and t′
0 ←correct(tL, tL
c , t)
3: s′
1 ←correct(sR, sc, t) and t′
1 ←correct(tR, tR
c , t)
Output: (s′
0, t′
0), (s′
1, t′
1)
same, except at position α. We can deﬁne deterministic transformations on the
values at the leaves such that leaves with the same value produce additive shares
of zero. These transformations are each determined by the control bit, and sym-
metry in the control bits results in symmetric application of these deterministic
operations. At the leaf where the values diﬀer, the invariant tells us that the
control bits will diﬀer, and we can take advantage of this asymmetry to produce
additive shares of β at this pair of leaves.
In order to maintain the invariant in Deﬁnition 8, we perform a correction
operation at each node as we traverse the tree. Each level of the tree is associated
with a correction word. At each node, we perform the PRG expansion deﬁned
in Deﬁnition 9, then apply the correction operation deﬁne in Deﬁnition 10 to
compute the seeds and control bits for the left and right children.
Deﬁnition 9 (VerDPF PRG Expansion [3]). Let s ∈{0, 1} be a seed for the
PRG G : {0, 1}λ →{0, 1}2λ+2. Deﬁne the PRG expansion of the seed s as follows:
sL||tL||sR||tR ←G(s)
where sL, sR ∈{0, 1}λ and tL, tR ∈{0, 1}.
Deﬁnition 10 (VerDPF Correction Operation [3]). The VerDPF correction
operation
correctG : G × G × {0, 1} →G
is deﬁned as follows:
correctG(ξ0, ξ1, t) =

ξ0
if
t = 0
ξ0 + ξ1
if
t = 1
When G is not deﬁned, the group G is taken to be Zℓ
2 for some positive integer ℓ.
In particular, this makes the group addition operation the component-wise XOR
of ξ0 and ξ1.
From the node expansion described in Algorithm 1, it becomes clear what
the correction word must be in order to maintain that only one pair of nodes
diﬀer at each level of the tree. In particular, if the bit xi disagrees with αi, the

Lightweight, Maliciously Secure Veriﬁable Function Secret Sharing
163
corresponding bit of α, then the correction word must ensure that seeds and
controls bits in the next level match. We deﬁne the correction word generation
algorithm in Algorithm 2.
Algorithm 2. VerDPFn,G correction word generation, denoted CWGen.
Input: PRG G : {0, 1}λ →{0, 1}2λ+2
Left seed s0, left control bit t0.
Right seed s1, right control bit t1.
Bit x of the input.
1: Expand (sL
b , tL
b , sR
b , tR
b ) ←G(sb) for b ∈{0, 1}.
2: if x = 0 then Diﬀ←L, Same ←R
▷Set the right children to be equal.
3: else Diﬀ←R, Same ←L
▷Set the left children to be equal.
4: sc ←sSame
0
⊕sSame
1
5: tL
c ←tL
0 ⊕tL
1 ⊕1 ⊕x
▷Ensure that the left control bits are not equal iﬀx = 0.
6: tR
c ←tR
0 ⊕tR
1 ⊕x
▷Ensure that the right control bits are not equal iﬀx = 1.
7: cw ←sc||tL
c ||tR
c
8: s′
b ←correct(sDiﬀ
b
, sc, t(i−1)
b
) for b ∈{0, 1}.
9: t′
b ←correct(tDiﬀ
b
, tDiﬀ
c
, tb) for b ∈{0, 1}.
Output: cw, (s′
0, t′
0), (s′
1, t′
1)
Intuitively, our construction takes advantage of the fact that the correction
words in the DPF construction of Boyle et al. can only correct at most one
diﬀerence in each level. In our construction, we extend the GGM tree by one
level, extending the DPF evaluation to all of the left children. In addition, at the
ﬁnal level we replace the PRG with a hash function H sampled from a family
H that is collision-resistant and correlation-intractable for an XOR correlation
deﬁned below. We then have the servers check that all of their right children are
the same by hashing all right children and exchanging the hash value.
In an honest pair of function shares, the trees should only diﬀer at one node
at each level, and in the ﬁnal level the only diﬀerence should be in one of the
left children. The collision resistance of the hash function ensures that any dif-
ference in the second-to-last level will result in a diﬀerence in the right children.
This forces the correction word to correct these right children in order for the
consistency check to pass. Since the correction word can correct at most one
diﬀerence in the right children, this will guarantee that all other right children
are the same because their parents are the same, which, in turn, implies that all
corresponding left children are the same.
As discussed above, it is straightforward to turn matching leaf nodes into
additive shares of zero, although we will have to generate the ﬁnal control bit
slightly diﬀerently in this ﬁnal level to ensure that this conversion is performed
correctly. In particular, we generate these control bits deterministically from the
seeds, which ensures that matching seeds will result in matching control bits. For
the non-zero output, we will have the honest client generate the function shares
until the control bits at the non-zero point are diﬀerent. If a malicious client

164
L. de Castro and A. Polychroniadou
samples shares such that these bits are the same, this will simply correspond to
a diﬀerent choice of β.
To securely instantiate the ﬁnal level of the tree, our hash function family
must be collision resistant, which will ensure that a diﬀerence in the previous
level will translate to a diﬀerence in the children. We will also require the hash
function to be secure against a similar, but incomparable, correlation, which we
call XOR-collision resistance. Intuitively, satisfying this deﬁnition will ensure
that each correction seed will only be able to correct one diﬀerence in the right
children.
Deﬁnition 11 (XOR-Collision Resistance). We say a function family F
is XOR-collision resistant if no PPT adversary given a randomly sampled f ∈
F can ﬁnd four values x0, x1, x2, x3 ∈{0, 1}λ such that (x0, x1) ̸= (x2, x3),
(x0, x1) ̸= (x3, x2), and f(x0) ⊕f(x1) = f(x2) ⊕f(x3) ̸= 0 with probability
better than some function negl(λ) that is negligible in λ.
To satisfy this deﬁnition, our hash function output has length 4λ, since we must
defend against a birthday-attack where the adversary is searching for a colliding
4-tuple. We expand on this more in the full version. With a hash function satis-
fying this deﬁnition, we will be able to argue that if an adversary can construct
invalid VerDPF keys that pass the consistency check, then this adversary has
found either a collision or an XOR-collision in the hash function.
We deﬁne the VerDPF key in Deﬁnition 12. The full veriﬁable DPF construc-
tion is given in Fig. 1.
Deﬁnition 12 (VerDPF Function Share). Let VerDPFn,G be our veriﬁable
DPF scheme. Let λ be the security parameter. A function share contains the
following elements.
– Starting seed s(0) ∈{0, 1}λ.
– Correction words cw1, . . . , cwn, where each cwi ∈{0, 1}λ × {0, 1} × {0, 1}.
– One additional correction seed cs ∈{0, 1}4λ, which corrects diﬀerences in the
ﬁnal level. Corrections to the control bits are not necessary at the ﬁnal level.
– A ﬁnal output correction group element ocw ∈G.
Lemma 1 (VerDPF Correctness). The VerDPF scheme deﬁned in Fig. 1
deﬁnes a correct veriﬁable DPF scheme.
Proof. If we ignore the last level of the DPF expansion, our DPF is essentially
the same as the DPF construction of Boyle et al. [3]. The only diﬀerence is the
way the ﬁnal control bits are generated. The control bits for the nodes that
correspond to zero outputs will be the same, since the seeds for these leaves will
also be the same. In the key generation, the seeds are sampled such that the
control bits for the leaf at position α will diﬀer, allowing the selective XOR of
the ﬁnal correction word. Since the correct operation is deterministic, the nodes

Lightweight, Maliciously Secure Veriﬁable Function Secret Sharing
165
Fig. 1. Veriﬁable distributed point function VerDPFn,G.

166
L. de Castro and A. Polychroniadou
Algorithm 3
. VerDPF.FDEval. The veriﬁable full-domain evaluation function
for our veriﬁable DPF construction. The hash functions H and H′ are as in
Figure 1.
Input: b ∈{0, 1} and VerDPF key kb.
1: Parse the VerDPF key (s(0), {cwi}n
i=1, cs, ocw) ←kb.
2: Let s ←s(0) and t ←b
3: Deﬁne nodes ←{(s, t)}
4: for i from 1 to n do
5:
Deﬁne nodes′ ←{}
6:
for (s, t) in nodes do
7:
(s′
0, t′
0), (s′
1, t′
1) ←NodeExpand(G, s, t)
8:
nodes′.append((s′
0, t′
0))
9:
nodes′.append((s′
1, t′
1))
10:
nodes ←nodes′
11: Deﬁne y ←{} and π ←cs
12: for i from 1 to N do
13:
(s, ) ←nodes[i].
14:
˜π ←H(i||s)
15:
t ←LSB(s)
16:
y.append

(−1)b · correctG(convert(s), ocw, t)

17:
π ←π ⊕H′(π ⊕correct(˜π, cs, t))
Output: (y, π)
with matching seeds and control bits will produce shares of zero. This can be
seen below, where we set s0 = s1 and t0 = t1.
yb = (−1)b · correctG(convert(sb), ocw, tb) = −1 · y1−b
For the leaf at position α, we have that t0 ̸= t1. Here, the output values will
be a secret sharing of β. For simplicity, we write gb = convert(sb).
ocw = (−1)t1 [β −g0 + g1]
y0 + y1 = correctG(g0, ocw, t0) + correctG(g1, ocw, t1)
= g0 −g1 + (−1)t0 · ocw = g0 −g1 + β −g0 + g1 = β
where we get that (−1)t0 · ocw = β −g0 + g1 from t0 ̸= t1.
3.3
VDPF Security Proof
We will now prove that the veriﬁable DPF construction given in Fig. 1 is secure.
We will focus on proving the following theorem.
Lemma 2 (Detection of Malicious Function Shares). Except with prob-
ability negligible in the security parameter λ, no PPT adversary A can generate
VerDPF keys (k∗
0, k∗
1) ←A(1λ) where the ﬁnal level uses a hash function H ←H
sampled from a family H of collision-resistant and XOR-collision-resistant hash

Lightweight, Maliciously Secure Veriﬁable Function Secret Sharing
167
functions such that the following holds. For an adversarially chosen set of eval-
uation points {xi}L
i=1, let (yb, πb) ←VerDPF.BVEval(b, k∗
b, {xi}L
i=1) such that
Accept ←VerDPF.Verify(π0, π1) passes but y0 + y1 is nonzero in more than one
location.
Proof. The approach to proving this theorem will be to focus on the ﬁnal level
of the GGM tree. At the second-to-last level, each server has a set of seeds
{s(xi)
0
}L
i=1 and {s(xi)
1
}L
i=1. The servers also have the same correction seed cs. Let
˜π(x)
b
←H(x||s(x)
b ), let t(x)
b
←LSB(s(x)
b ), and let π(x)
b
←correct(˜π(x)
b
, cs, t(x)
b ). The
bulk of this proof is covered by the following lemma.
Lemma 3. For L ≥2, let x := {xi}L
i=1. Suppose there exists two distinct inputs
u, v ∈x such that s(u)
0
̸= s(u)
1
and s(v)
0
̸= s(v)
1 . If H is sampled from a collision-
resistant and XOR-collision-resistant family, then no PPT adversary can ﬁnd a
correction seed cs such that for all x ∈x we will have π(x)
0
= π(x)
1 .
Proof. Suppose for contradiction that there exists two inputs u, v ∈x such that
s(u)
0
̸= s(u)
1
and s(v)
0
̸= s(v)
1
and for all x ∈x we have π(x)
0
= π(x)
1 . By collision-
resistance, we have that ˜π(u)
0
̸= ˜π(u)
1
and ˜π(v)
0
̸= ˜π(v)
1 . In order to get π(u)
0
= π(u)
1
and π(v)
0
= π(v)
1 , we need the following:
cs = ˜π(u)
0
⊕˜π(u)
1
= ˜π(v)
0
⊕˜π(v)
1
̸= 0
From the XOR-collision-resistance of H, in order to get this equality we must
have one of the following two cases.
– Case (i): ˜π(u)
0
= ˜π(v)
0
and ˜π(u)
1
= ˜π(v)
1
– Case (ii): ˜π(u)
0
= ˜π(v)
1
and ˜π(u)
1
= ˜π(v)
0
We can show that any one of these four equalities violates the collision-resistance
of H. Suppose we have H(u||s(u)
b ) = ˜π(u)
b
= ˜π(v)
b′
= H(v||s(v)
b′ ) for any b, b′ ∈{0, 1}.
Since u ̸= v, any equality between these hash outputs violates the collision
resistance of H.
Therefore, no value of cs will result in π(x)
0
= π(x)
1
for all x ∈x.
From the collision resistance of H′, if the proofs produced by the BVEval
algorithm match, then π(x)
0
= π(x)
1
for all x ∈x. From Lemma 3, this implies
that there is at most one u ∈x such that s(u)
0
̸= s(u)
1 , and for all x ∈x such that
x ̸= u, we have s(x)
0
= s(x)
1 .
Deﬁne α = u for the unique u such that s(u)
0
̸= s(u)
1 . If no such u exists (which
occurs if all outputs are zero), set u = x1. Deﬁne
β = correctG

convert(s(u)
0 ), ocw, t(u)
0

−correctG

convert(s(u)
1 ), ocw, t(u)
1


168
L. de Castro and A. Polychroniadou
Note that this β is well-deﬁned for any s(u)
b
and t(u)
b . For all other x ̸= u,
observing that t(x)
b
= LSB(s(x)
b ) implies the following:
s(x)
0
= s(x)
1
=⇒t(x)
0
= t(x)
1
=⇒correctG

convert(s(x)
0 ), ocw, t(x)
0

= correctG

convert(s(x)
1 ), ocw, t(x)
1

=⇒y(x)
0
+ y(x)
1
= 0
Since s(x)
0
= s(x)
1
for all x ̸= u, y0 + y1 deﬁnes the truth table of fα,β. Therefore,
the construction in Fig. 1 satisﬁes Deﬁnition 6.
Lemma 4 (VerDPF Function Privacy). The VDPF construction VerDPF sat-
isﬁes Deﬁnition 7.
Proof. All elements of a VerDPF key are computationally indistinguishable from
random elements. The starting seed is randomly sampled from {0, 1}λ. Each
correction word is XOR’d with the output of a PRG where the seed is not known
to the evaluator, and hence is also indistinguishable from random. Finally, the
inclusion of the correct proof from the other party does not add any information,
since the evaluator holding the share kb can locally compute the correct proof
π1−b = πb. Therefore, the simulator Sim can set all elements of the key k∗to be
randomly sampled elements, then compute ( , π∗) ←VerDPF.BVEval(b, k∗, x) to
output (k∗, π∗) ≈c (kb, π1−b).
Combining Lemma 2 and Lemma 4 gives the proof of the following theorem.
Theorem 3 (Veriﬁable Distributed Point Function). The construction
in Fig. 1 is a secure veriﬁable DPF for the class of point functions Fn,G. For
any f ∈Fn,G, the runtime of (k0, k1) ←VerDPF.Gen(1λ, f) is O(nλ), and
the size of a function share is O(nλ). For any x ∈{0, 1}n, the runtime of
VerDPF.Eval(b, kb, x) is O(nλ), and the runtime of VerDPF.BVEval(b, kb, x) is
O(n · λ · |x|).
4
Veriﬁable Distributed Multi-Point Function
In this section, we present a novel method for eﬃciently batching many veriﬁable
DPF queries to obtain a veriﬁable FSS scheme for multi-point functions (MPFs).
Multi-point functions are deﬁned as the sum of several point functions. While
any function can be viewed as an MPF, we will focus here on MPFs that have a
small number of non-zero points relatively to the domain size. This scheme will
also be veriﬁable in a similar, although more relaxed, manner as in the veriﬁable
DPF from Sect. 3. Our construction is based on a novel Cuckoo-hashing scheme
described below.

Lightweight, Maliciously Secure Veriﬁable Function Secret Sharing
169
4.1
Cuckoo-hashing from PRPs
Our technique is inspired by the use of Cuckoo-hashing schemes that are com-
mon throughout the PSI [5,6] and DPF [12] literature. In particular, it is com-
mon for the Cuckoo-hashing scheme to have two modes: a compact mode and
an expanded mode. Both modes are parameterized by m buckets and κ hash
functions h1, . . . , hκ : {0, 1}∗→[m].
Compact Cuckoo-hashing Mode. In the compact mode, the input is t elements
x1, . . . , xt to be inserted into a table of m buckets. To insert an element xi, an
index k ∈[κ] is randomly sampled and xi is inserted at index hk(xi). If this
index is already occupied by some other element xj, then xj is replaced by xi
and xj is reinserted using this same method. After some limit on the number of
trials, the insertion process is deemed to have failed. The purpose of the compact
mode is to eﬃciently pack t elements into the table of size m. This algorithm,
denoted CHCompact, is given in Algorithm 4.
Algorithm 4. CHCompact Compact Cuckoo-hashing scheme. The algorithm is
given a ﬁxed time to run before it is deemed to have failed.
Input: Domain elements α1, . . . , αt
Hash functions h1, . . . , hκ : {0, 1}⋆→m
Number of buckets m ≥t
1: Deﬁne an empty array of m elements Table where each entry is initialized to ⊥.
2: for ω from 1 to t do
3:
Set β ←αω and set success ←False
4:
while success is False do
5:
Sample k
$
←−[κ]
6:
i ←hk(β).
7:
if Table[i] = ⊥then
8:
Table[i] = β and success ←True
9:
else Swap β and Table[i]
Output: Table
We consider m = e · t for e > 1, where the size of e determines the proba-
bility over the choice of hash functions of failing to insert any set of t elements.
More speciﬁcally, from the empirical analysis of Demmler et al. [6], we have the
following lemma.
Lemma 5 (Cuckoo-hashing Failure Probability [6]). Let κ = 3 and t ≥4.
Let m = e · t for e > 1. Let H be a family of collision-resistant hash functions,
and let h1, . . . , hκ ←H be randomly sampled from H. We have that t elements
will fail to be inserted into a table of size m with probability 2−λ, where
λ = at · e −bt −log2(t)
at = 123.5 · CDFNormal(x = t, μ = 6.3, σ = 2.3)
bt = 130 · CDFNormal(x = t, μ = 6.45, σ = 2.18)

170
L. de Castro and A. Polychroniadou
Here, CDFNormal(x, μ, σ) refers to the cumulative density function of the normal
distribution with mean μ and standard deviation σ up to the point x.
Remark 1 (Cuckoo-hash parameters). Asymptotically, we have the number of
Cuckoo-hash buckets as m = O(tλ + t log(t)); however, concretely, the picture
is much nicer than the asymptotics suggest. For suﬃciently large t (i.e. t ≥30),
we can simplify Lemma 5 to be λ = 123.5 · e −130 −log2(t), since the CDFNormal
factors become eﬀectively one. Then, for λ = 80, we have that m ≤2t for all
30 ≤t ≤237, which we believe captures nearly all practical use cases.
Expanded Cuckoo-hashing mode. In the expanded Cuckoo-hashing mode, the
hashing scheme takes as input t elements and produces a matrix of dimension
m × B that contains κ · t elements. This mode is produced by hashing all t
elements with each of the κ hash functions, then inserting each of the t elements
in all κ buckets as indicated by the hash functions. The parameter B is the
maximum size of these buckets.
Our PRP Cuckoo-hashing. In the Cuckoo-hashing schemes from the prior litera-
ture, the design of the scheme is focused on the compact mode, and the extended
mode is added without much change to the overall design. In our Cuckoo-hashing
scheme, we begin with an eﬃcient construction of the expanded mode, then show
how we maintain eﬃciency of the compact mode. For a domain of elements D
of size n = |D|, we deﬁne the expanded mode of our Cuckoo-hashing scheme
with a PRP of domain size nκ. Let m be the number of bins in the Cuckoo-hash
table. Deﬁne B := ⌈nκ/m⌉. The PRP then deﬁnes an expanded Cuckoo-hash
table of dimension m × B by simply arranging the nκ outputs of the PRP into
the entries of an m×B matrix. More speciﬁcally, let PRP: {0, 1}λ ×[nκ] →[nκ]
be the PRP. Let σ ←{0, 1}λ be the seed of the PRP. Deﬁne entry (i, j) of the
m × B matrix A to be Ai,j := PRP(σ, (i −1) · m + j). Note that the last row
of the matrix may have some empty entries, but this turns out to have little
consequence on the overall scheme.
To deﬁne the compact mode of this Cuckoo-hashing scheme, we explicitly
deﬁne the hash functions in terms of the PRP. As above, let PRP: {0, 1}λ ×
[nκ] →[nκ] be the PRP, and let σ ←{0, 1}λ be the seed of the PRP. For i ∈[κ],
deﬁne the hash function hi : [n] →[m] as follows:
hi(x) := ⌊PRP(σ, x + n · (i −1))/B⌋
(1)
The hash functions h1, . . . , hκ can then be used in the original compact Cuckoo-
hashing scheme with m buckets. The main beneﬁt of our construction comes
with the next feature, which allows a party to learn the location of an element
within a speciﬁc bucket of the expanded Cuckoo-hash table without directly
constructing the expanded table. More speciﬁcally, for i ∈[κ], we deﬁne the
function indexi : [n] →[B] as follows:
indexi(x) := PRP(σ, x + n · (i −1))
mod B
(2)

Lightweight, Maliciously Secure Veriﬁable Function Secret Sharing
171
With these functions index1, . . . , indexκ in addition to the hash functions h1,
. . ., hκ, we can compute the locations {(i, j)k ∈[m] × [B]}κ
k=1 for each of the κ
locations of an element x ∈[n] in the expanded Cuckoo-hash table. In particular,
we have (i, j)k = (hk(x), indexk(x)).
4.2
Veriﬁable Distributed MPFs via PRP Hashing
We now present our veriﬁable MPF scheme that makes use of the Cuckoo-hashing
scheme described in the previous section. Let N be the MPF domain size. Our
input will be an MPF f deﬁned by t point functions fαi,βi : [N] →G for i ∈[t].
Without loss of generality, we consider α1, . . . , αt as distinct points. We would
like to eﬃciently support an FSS scheme for the function f : [N] →G that is
deﬁned as follows:
f(x) =
t
	
i=1
fαi,βi(x)
Naively, we would generate t diﬀerent DPF shares, one for each point function.
Evaluation of this naive distributed MPF (DMPF) share at a single point would
require t DPF share evaluations.
To improve over this naive construction, the idea is to pack our point func-
tions into a Cuckoo-hash table with m buckets. We begin by instantiating our
PRP-based Cuckoo-hashing scheme with a PRP of domain size Nκ and deﬁne
B = ⌈Nκ/m⌉. The client can then use the compact mode to pack the values
α1, . . . , αt into a Cuckoo-hash table of size m. For each bucket at index i ∈[m],
let α′
i be the value in the bucket. We can either have α′
i = αj for one of the
input αj, or α′
i = ⊥if the bucket is empty. If α′
i = αj, let k ∈[κ] be the index
of the hash function used to insert αj to bucket i. In other words, hk(αj) = i.
Deﬁne the index γi = indexk(αj), which is the index of αj in the ith bucket in the
expanded Cuckoo-hash mode. Next, deﬁne the point function gγi,βj : [B] →G,
which evaluates to βj at the index of αj within the ith bucket. This point func-
tion is then shared to create (k(i)
0 , k(i)
1 ) ←VerDPF.Gen(1λ, gγi,βj). In the case
where α′
i = ⊥, the shared function is set to be the zero function. The veriﬁable
distributed MPF (VDMPF) share has the form mpkb = (σ, k(1)
b , . . . , k(m)
b
) where
σ is the PRP seed.
To evaluate this multi-point function share at a point x ∈[N], the evaluator
ﬁrst computes the κ possible buckets in which x could lie, denoted ik = hk(x)
for k ∈[κ]. Next, the evaluator computes the index of x in each bucket, denoted
jk = indexk(x) for k ∈[κ]. Finally, the evaluator computes the sum of the VDPF
in each of the buckets at i1, . . . , ik evaluated at j1, . . . , jk. This gives the output
yb = VerDMPF.Eval(b, mpkb, x) =
	
k∈[κ]
VerDPF.Eval(b, k(ik)
b
, jk)
In addition, this VDMPF inherits all of the features of the VDPF con-
struction from Sect. 3, including the O(log(B)) savings when evaluating the

172
L. de Castro and A. Polychroniadou
full domain (via tree traversal), as well as veriﬁability of share well-formedness.
We note that the veriﬁability is a bit weaker than the deﬁnition achieved for
point functions. More speciﬁcally, for point functions we showed how the servers
can ensure that at most one evaluation point is nonzero when evaluating any
subset of the domain. For this VDMPF construction, we can show that there
are no more than m non-zero points in any subset of evaluations by showing
there is no more than one non-zero point in the VDPF in each bucket. This is
slightly weaker than the best-possible guarantee, which would be that there are
no more than t non-zero points in any set of evaluations. However, as discussed in
Sect. 4.1, we will essentially always have m ≤2t (see Remark 1), so we consider
this gap acceptable for most applications. In addition, we can achieve an exact
guarantee by reverting to the naive construction using the VDPFs from Sect. 3.
We leave for future work the challenge of closing this gap while maintaining
similar performance.
Our VDMPF construction is given in Fig. 2.
Lemma 6 (VerDMPF Correctness).
Let F be the function class of multi-
point functions with at most t non-zero points. Figure 2 gives a correct function
secret sharing scheme for F.
Proof. This follows directly from the correctness of the VerDPF shares in each
bucket and the low statistical failure probability of the Cuckoo-hashing scheme.
Lemma 7 (VerDMPF Function Privacy).
Let F be the function class of
multi-point functions with at most t non-zero points. Figure 2 gives a function-
private FSS scheme for F, as deﬁned in Deﬁnition 2
Proof. The VerDPF shares in this construction computationally hide all infor-
mation regarding the non-zero evaluation points. The only additional leakage is
that these t evaluation points ﬁt into a Cuckoo-hash table with the hash func-
tions speciﬁed by the PRP seed σ. Lemma 5 gives us a way to set the number
of buckets so that any t inputs will fail to hash with 2−λ probability. Setting λ
to be the computational security parameter maintains the adversary’s negligible
distinguishing advantage.
Lemma 8 (VerDMPF Share Integrity). Let VerDPF be a secure veriﬁable
point function scheme. Let VerDMPF := VerDMPFN,G be a veriﬁable multi-
point function scheme as deﬁned in Fig. 2 that uses VerDPF for the Cuckoo-
hash buckets. No PPT adversary A can generate VerDMPF keys (k∗
0, k∗
1) ←
A(1λ) along with L ≥1 distinct evaluation points x1, . . . , xL ∈[N] such that
the following holds. Let (yb, πb) ←VerDMPF.BVEval(b, k∗
b, {xi}L
i=1) such that
Accept ←VerDMPF.Verify(π0, π1) but there are ω > m indices i1, . . . , iω such
that y(ij)
0
+ y(ij)
1
̸= 0 for j ∈[ω]. In other words, the output of the batched
evaluation contains more than m non-zero outputs.
Proof. This follows directly from the veriﬁability of the VerDPF shares, which
guarantees that there is at most one non-zero evaluation for each of the m
buckets.

Lightweight, Maliciously Secure Veriﬁable Function Secret Sharing
173
Lemma 6, Lemma 7, and Lemma 8 combine to give the following theorem.
Theorem 4. The construction in Fig. 2 is a secure veriﬁable DMPF for the
class F of multi-point functions f : [N] →G with at most t non-zero evaluation
points. For any f ∈F and m = O(tλ + t log(t)), the runtime of VerDMPF.Gen
is O (mλ log(N/m)). For η inputs, the runtime of VerDMPF.BVEval is
O(ηλ log(N/m)).
Proof. The asymptotics follow from the fact that generating a single VerDPF
share in this scheme takes time O(λ log(N/m)), and evaluation of a VerDPF
share at one point is also O(λ log(N/m)), where we take the PRP and PRG
evaluations to be O(λ).
Remark 2. We note brieﬂy that if a PRP for the domain κN is not available,
our method will work just as well utilizing a generic Cuckoo-hashing scheme and
setting all indexj(i) = i. The diﬀerence will be that the domain size of the DPF in
each Cuckoo-hash bucket will not shrink as the number of nonzero points grows,
resulting in a VerDMPF.Gen time of O (mλ log(N)) and a VerDMPF.BVEval time
of O(ηλ log(N)).
In Appendix A, we give an alternate evaluation mode of our VDMPF, which
we call “match-mode” evaluation. This mode has identical performance to the
regular batch veriﬁable evaluation mode with the same veriﬁcation guarantee.
The diﬀerence is that for each of the m buckets, match-mode evaluation com-
putes additive shares of whether or not any of the inputs matched with the
nonzero point in that bucket. This mode is useful in two-server PSI protocols,
among others.
5
Implementation & Performance
In this section, we present an implementation of our veriﬁable DPF and veriﬁable
MPF constructions and compare them to their non-veriﬁable and non-batched
counterparts.
Implementation Details. We implemented our VDPF and VDMPF constructions
in C++. We follow the approach of Wang et al. [13] by using a ﬁxed-key AES
cipher to construct a Matyas-Meyer-Oseas [11] one-way compression function.
We use AES-based PRFs to construct our PRGs, our hash functions, and our
PRP. Using an AES-based PRP implicitly ﬁxes our DMPF domain size to be
128 bits, and we leave for future work the task of implementing an eﬃcient
small-domain PRP. Our implementation is accelerated with the Intel AES-NI
instruction, and all benchmarks were run on a single thread on an Intel i7-8650U
CPU. For comparison, we also implemented a non-veriﬁable DPF following the
constructions of Boyle et al. [3] and Wang et al. [13], which we refer to as the
“textbook” DPF. We implement the “textbook” distributed MPF by naively
applying the textbook DPF; namely, our textbook DMPF share contains one
DPF share per non-zero point, and evaluating the share requires evaluation all
DPF shares and summing their results.

174
L. de Castro and A. Polychroniadou
Fig. 2. Veriﬁable distributed multi-point function.

Lightweight, Maliciously Secure Veriﬁable Function Secret Sharing
175
DPF Comparisons. We now present the results of our DPF comparisons. For
various domain sizes 2n, we benchmarked the share generation time, the evalu-
ation time, and the full-domain evaluation time for the textbook DPF and the
veriﬁable DPF. All benchmarks of the veriﬁable DPF include the generation of
the veriﬁcation proof. The share evaluation comparison runs the veriﬁable DPF
at 100 random points in {0, 1}n and generates the proof verifying this set of
evaluations. The runtime reported is the time per evaluation point. Benchmarks
are given in Fig. 4.
The slowdown for the veriﬁable evaluation time is quite small, as it essentially
only requires evaluating one additional level of the GGM tree. The slowdown for
the share generation time is a bit greater, since the veriﬁable share generation
has a 50% chance of failure, at which point it must be restarted. This can be
seen by the roughly factor of 2 slowdown in the runtime of the veriﬁable share
generation.
Overall, our comparisons show that our techniques introduce relatively little
overhead to the textbook DPF procedures. We view these results as an aﬃrma-
tion of our claim that our veriﬁable DPF can replace the textbook DPF in any
application to provide a meaningful & robust malicious security claim without
seriously impacting performance. Our results are displayed in Fig. 3.
Fig. 3. In this ﬁgure, we present the benchmarks of the textbook DPF and the ver-
iﬁable DPF presented in this work. The top-left graph plots runtimes for the share
generation time. As can be seen, the slowdown for veriﬁability is roughly 2×. The
top-right graph plots the runtimes for the share evaluation. As discussed in Sect. 5, the
veriﬁable runtime was computed by taking the runtime of the veriﬁable batch eval-
uation procedure (Fig. 1) for 100 random points and dividing it by 100. The bottom
graph plots the runtimes for the full domain evaluation operation.

176
L. de Castro and A. Polychroniadou
DMPF Comparisons. We now present the results of our DMPF comparisons. We
benchmarked the share generation and evaluation time for MPFs with various
numbers of nonzero points t. As with the DPF comparisons, all benchmarks of
the VDMPFs include the time required to generate the veriﬁcation proof. Recall
that our “textbook” benchmark uses neither the batching nor the veriﬁcation
techniques presented in this work. The batched, veriﬁable share generation time
is about 2× slower than the textbook share generation time. This is a balancing
between the increased runtime due to the overhead of the veriﬁable share genera-
tion, the overhead due to the number of buckets being greater than the nonzero
values, and the savings due to the domain size shrinking thanks to the PRP
savings. To display benchmarks that demonstrate this optimization, we chose a
domain size of N = 2126. This is so that the κ · N elements of the permutation
ﬁt in the 128-bit domain of AES PRP. These benchmarks are given in Fig. 4.
The real savings, and what we view as one of the main results of this
section, comes in the share evaluation. As discussed in Sect. 4, the performance
of the batched VDMPF evaluation eﬀectively does not grow with the number
of nonzero points t in the shared multi-point function. This is in stark contrast
to the textbook version, where evaluation time grows linearly with the number
of nonzero points t in the shared multi-point function. This leads to a dramatic
diﬀerence in the evaluation times, even when considering the time to generate
the veriﬁcation proof, even for a small number of nonzero points (e.g. 10 points).
These results are displayed in Fig. 5.
Fig. 4. This graph plots the share generation time for the textbook DMPF and the
batched, veriﬁable DMPF presented in this work.

Lightweight, Maliciously Secure Veriﬁable Function Secret Sharing
177
Fig. 5. This ﬁgure plots the evaluation times for the textbook DMPF and the batched,
veriﬁable DMPF presented in this work. The domain sizes of these functions were 126
bits. Both graphs in this ﬁgure plot the same data; the ﬁrst graph shows all plots while
the second graph is only a plot of the smallest four lines so that the batched VDMPF
runtimes can be viewed. The x-axis for these graphs is the number of points η on which
the shares are evaluated, and the colors of each line represent the number of nonzero
points t in the shared multi-point functions. The number of points is indicated in the
legends of the graphs. Note in the second graph that the evaluation time decreases as
the number of nonzero points on in the MPF grows.
Acknowledgments. We would like to thank Vinod Vaikuntanathan and Henry
Corrigan-Gibbs for helpful conversations and insights.
Leo de Castro was supported by a JP Morgan AI Research PhD Fellowship.
This paper was prepared for informational purposes by the Artiﬁcial Intelligence
Research group of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its aﬃliates (“JP Morgan”), and is not
a product of the Research Department of JP Morgan. JP Morgan makes no represen-
tation and warranty whatsoever and disclaims all liability, for the completeness, accu-
racy or reliability of the information contained herein. This document is not intended
as investment research or investment advice, or a recommendation, oﬀer or solicita-
tion for the purchase or sale of any security, ﬁnancial instrument, ﬁnancial product or
service, or to be used in any way for evaluating the merits of participating in any trans-
action, and shall not constitute a solicitation under any jurisdiction or to any person,
if such solicitation under such jurisdiction or to such person would be unlawful. 2021
JPMorgan Chase & Co. All rights reserved.
A
Match-Mode VDMPF: Point Matching
In this section, we present an alternative evaluation mode for our VDMPF
scheme that is be useful in various applications. In the “main” evaluation mode,
which was presented in Fig. 2, the servers produce one output for each input
element to the batched evaluation algorithm. In the “match” evaluation mode
discussed in this section, the servers produce one output for each of the cuckoo-
hash buckets in the VDMPF key. The purpose of this evaluation mode is to
determine if one of the server’s input elements matches one of the non-zero
points of the multi-point function.
In more detail, during the evaluation algorithm the servers still produce a set
of inputs for each of the m buckets and evaluate the corresponding VDPF keys
on these inputs. Instead of summing the VDPF outputs according to a matching

178
L. de Castro and A. Polychroniadou
input, the servers sum the outputs of each VDPF to create a single output for
each of the m buckets. From the veriﬁability of the point function share in each
bucket, the servers can easily ensure that the evaluation of at most one of their
inputs is being revealed for each bucket. The algorithm is given in Algorithm 5.
Algorithm 5. VDMPF Match-Mode Evaluation, denoted VerDMPF.MatchEval.
The setting for this algorithm is the same as the VDMPF construction in
Figure 2.
Input: bit b and VerDMPF key kb
η inputs x1, . . . , xη
1: Parse σ, k(1)
b , . . . , k(m)
b
←kb
2: Deﬁne B ←⌈Nκ/m⌉, n′ ←⌈log(B)⌉.
3: Let VerDPF := VerDPFn′,G.
4: Initialize an array inputs of length m.
5: for ω from 1 to η do
6:
Let i1, . . . , iκ ←h1(xω), . . . , hκ(xω)
7:
Let j1, . . . , jκ ←index1(xω), . . . , indexκ(xω)
8:
Append jk to inputs[ik] for each k ∈[κ], ignoring duplicates.
9: Initialize an array outputs of length m to all zeros.
10: Initialize a proof π ←0
11: for i from 1 to m do
12:
{yℓ}L
ℓ=1, π(i) ←VerDPF.BVEval(b, k(i)
b , inputs[i])
13:
outputs[i] ←outputs[i] + yℓfor ℓ∈[L]
14:
π ←π ⊕H′(π ⊕π(i))
Output: outputs, π
References
1. Boneh, D., Boyle, E., Corrigan-Gibbs, H., Gilboa, N., Ishai, Y.: Lightweight tech-
niques for private heavy hitters. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2021/017
(2021). https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/017
2. Boyle, E., Gilboa, N., Ishai, Y.: Function secret sharing. In: Oswald, E., Fischlin,
M. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2015. LNCS, vol. 9057, pp. 337–367. Springer, Heidelberg
(2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-46803-6 12
3. Boyle, E., Gilboa, N., Ishai, Y.: Function secret sharing: improvements and exten-
sions. In: Proceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and
Communications Security, CCS 2016, pp. 1292–1303. Association for Computing
Machinery, New York, NY (2016)
4. Bunn, P., Kushilevitz, E., Ostrovsky, R.: CNF-FSS and its applications. IACR
Cryptol. ePrint Arch. 163, (2021)
5. Chen, H., Laine, K., Rindal, P.: Fast private set intersection from homomorphic
encryption. In: CCS 2017 Proceedings of the 2017 ACM SIGSAC Conference on
Computer and Communications Security, pp. 1243–1255. ACM New York, NY
2017, October 2017

Lightweight, Maliciously Secure Veriﬁable Function Secret Sharing
179
6. Demmler, D., Rindal, P., Rosulek, M., Trieu, N.: Pir-psi: scaling private contact
discovery. Proc. Priv. Enhanc. Technol. 159–178(10) (2018)
7. Dittmer, S., et al.:. Function secret sharing for psi-ca: with applications to private
contact tracing. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/1599 (2020). https://
eprint.iacr.org/2020/1599
8. Doerner, J., Shelat, A.: Scaling ORAM for secure computation. In: Proceedings of
the 2017 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security,
CCS 2017, pp. 523–535. Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY
(2017)
9. Gilboa, N., Ishai, Y.: Distributed point functions and their applications. In:
Nguyen, P.Q., Oswald, E. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2014. LNCS, vol. 8441, pp. 640–
658. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-55220-5 35
10. Goldreich, O., Goldwasser, S., Micali, S.: How to construct random functions. J.
ACM 33(4), 792–807 (1986)
11. Matyas, S.M., Meyer, C.H., Oseas, J.: Generating strong one-way functions with
cryptographic algorithm. IBM Tech. Discl. Bull. 27, 5658–5659 (1985)
12. Schoppmann, P., Gasc´on, A., Reichert, L., Raykova, M.: Distributed vector-ole:
improved constructions and implementation. In: Proceedings of the 2019 ACM
SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, CCS 2019, pp.
1055–1072. Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY (2019)
13. Wang, F., Yun, C., Goldwasser, S., Vaikuntanathan, V., Zaharia, M.: Splinter:
practical private queries on public data. In: 14th USENIX Symposium on Net-
worked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI 17), pp. 299–313. USENIX
Association, Boston, MA, March 2017

