Multi-key and Multi-input Predicate
Encryption from Learning with Errors
Danilo Francati1(B)
, Daniele Friolo2
, Giulio Malavolta3,
and Daniele Venturi2
1 Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark
dfrancati@cs.au.dk
2 Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Italy
3 Max Planck Institute for Security and Privacy, Bochum, Germany
Abstract. We put forward two natural generalizations of predicate
encryption (PE), dubbed multi-key and multi-input PE. More in details,
our contributions are threefold.
– Deﬁnitions. We formalize security of multi-key PE and multi-input
PE following the standard indistinguishability paradigm, and mod-
eling security both against malicious senders (i.e., corruption of
encryption keys) and malicious receivers (i.e., collusions).
– Constructions. We construct adaptively secure multi-key and
multi-input PE supporting the conjunction of poly-many arbitrary
single-input predicates, assuming the sub-exponential hardness of
the learning with errors (LWE) problem.
– Applications. We show that multi-key and multi-input PE for
expressive enough predicates suﬃces for interesting cryptographic
applications, including non-interactive multi-party computation (NI-
MPC) and matchmaking encryption (ME).
In particular, plugging in our constructions of multi-key and multi-input
PE, under the sub-exponential LWE assumption, we obtain the ﬁrst ME
supporting arbitrary policies with unbounded collusions, as well as robust
(resp. non-robust) NI-MPC for so-called all-or-nothing functions satis-
fying a non-trivial notion of reusability and supporting a constant (resp.
polynomial) number of parties. Prior to our work, both of these applica-
tions required much heavier tools such as indistinguishability obfuscation
or compact functional encryption.
Keywords: predicate encryption · non-interactive MPC ·
matchmaking encryption · LWE
1
Introduction
Predicate encryption (PE) [17,30,37] is a powerful cryptographic primitive that
enriches standard encryption with ﬁne-grained access control to the encrypted
data. In PE, the ciphertext is associated to both a message m and an attribute1
1 Sometimes, we also refer to x as the predicate input. Throughout the paper, we use
the terms attribute and input interchangeably.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2023
C. Hazay and M. Stam (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2023, LNCS 14006, pp. 573–604, 2023.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-30620-4_19

574
D. Francati et al.
x, whereas the secret key is associated to a predicate P, in such a way that the
decryption process reveals the message if and only if the attribute x satisﬁes the
predicate P (i.e., P(x) = 1). Typically, security of PE requires indistinguishability
in the presence of collusion attacks, namely, for any pair of attributes (x0, x1) and
for any pair of messages (m0, m1), ciphertexts corresponding to (x0, m0) and to
(x1, m1) are computationally indistinguishable, even for an adversary possessing
poly-many decryption keys dkP, so long as P(x0) = P(x1) = 0 (otherwise it is
easy to distinguish).
Recently, there has been a lot of progress in constructing PE supporting
expressive predicates under standard assumptions [5,12,17,30,37,38,42,43,45,
46]. In particular, Gourbunov, Vaikuntanathan and Wee [30] give a construc-
tion of selectively secure PE (with unbounded collusions) for arbitrary predi-
cates under the learning with errors (LWE) assumption. Moreover, under sub-
exponential LWE, the same construction achieves adaptive security (this requires
complexity leveraging).
1.1
Our Contributions
In this paper, we put forward two natural generalizations of PE which we dub
multi-key PE and multi-input PE. Furthermore, we construct both multi-key PE
and multi-input PE for a particular class of predicates, under the LWE assump-
tion. As we show, the class of predicates our schemes can handle is powerful
enough to yield interesting cryptographic applications, including matchmaking
encryption (ME) [10,11] for arbitrary policies and non-interactive multi-party
computation (NI-MPC) [34] satisfying a weaker (but still non-trivial) notion of
reusability. We elaborate on these contributions in Sect. 1.3.
Prior to our work, all of the above applications required much stronger tools
such as indistinguishability obfuscation (iO) [13]. While recent work made sig-
niﬁcant progress towards basing iO on standard assumptions [35,36], these con-
structions are fairly complex and still require a careful combination of multiple
assumptions (i.e., learning parity with noise, the SXDH assumption on bilinear
groups, and the existence of pseudorandom generators computable in constant
depth). Furthermore, such constructions are not secure in the presence of a quan-
tum attacker. Candidate constructions of post-quantum iO also exist [18,28,47],
but they are based on problems whose hardness is less understood.
Multi-key PE. In multi-key PE, we consider an ensemble of predicates P =
{Pv} indexed by a value v ∈V which is uniquely represented as a sequence
v = (v1, . . . , vn) ∈V1 × . . . × Vn. A sender can encrypt a message under an
input x using the public-key encryption algorithm Enc(mpk, x, m). A trusted
authority generates decryption keys dkvi (using the corresponding master secret
key mski) for each i ∈[n], with the guarantee that, given the decryption keys
dkv1, . . . , dkvn, the receiver can decrypt successfully the ciphertext c (associated
to plaintext m and attributes x), so long as Pv(x) = Pv1,...,vn(x) = 1.
Security of multi-key PE says that, for any pair of attributes (x0, x1) and for
any pair of messages (m0, m1), ciphertexts c associated to (x0, m0) and (x1, m1)

Multi-key and Multi-input Predicate Encryption from Learning with Errors
575
should be computationally indistinguishable even under unbounded collusions,
where the latter essentially means that the adversary can obtain decryption
keys for (poly-many) arbitrary values v1, . . . , vn which correspond to predi-
cates indexed by any value v = (v1, . . . , vn) such that Pv(x0) = Pv(x1) = 0.
This yields so-called CPA-1-sided security. The stronger notion of CPA-2-
sided security additionally allows for predicates indexed by values v such that
Pv(x0) = Pv(x1) = 1, so long as m0 = m1. These notions mimic the correspond-
ing notions that are already established for standard PE.
Our ﬁrst result is a construction of multi-key PE, from the sub-exponential
LWE assumption, supporting conjunctions of arbitrary predicates, i.e. for pred-
icates of the form Pv(x) = Pv1(x1) ∧. . . ∧Pvn(xn), where x = (x1, . . . , xn) and
v = (v1, . . . , vn).
Theorem 1 (Informal). Assuming the sub-exponential hardness of LWE, there
exists a CPA-1-sided adaptively secure multi-key PE scheme supporting conjunc-
tions of n = poly(λ) arbitrary predicates with unbounded collusions.
Multi-input PE. In multi-input PE, we consider predicates P with n inputs, i.e.
predicates of the form P(x1, . . . , xn). A trusted authority produces encryption
keys eki which are associated to the i-th slot of an input for P; namely, given
a (possibly secret)2 encryption key eki, a sender can generate a ciphertext ci
which is an encryption of message mi under attribute xi. At the same time, the
authority can produce a decryption key dkP associated to an n-input predicate
P, with the guarantee that the receiver can successfully decrypt c1, . . . , cn, and
thus obtain m1, . . . , mn, so long as P(x1, . . . , xn) = 1.
As for security, we consider similar ﬂavors as CPA-1-sided and CPA-2-sided
security for standard PE. Namely, for any pair of sequences of attributes (x0
1, . . . ,
x0
n) and (x1
1, . . . , x1
n) and for any pair of sequences of messages (m0
1, . . . , m0
n) and
(m1
1, . . . , m1
n), ciphertexts c1, . . . , cn corresponding to either (x0
1, m0
1), . . . , (x0
n,
m0
n) or (x1
1, m1
1), . . . , (x1
n, m1
n) should be computationally indistinguishable. Here,
we additionally consider two cases:
– In the setting with no corruptions (a.k.a. the secret-key setting), all of the
encryption keys eki are secret and cannot be corrupted (and thus all the
senders are honest).
– In the setting with adaptive corruptions, the attacker can adaptively reveal
some of the encryption keys eki (and thus corrupt a subset of the senders).
Naturally, for both of these ﬂavors, one can deﬁne CPA-1-sided and CPA-2-sided
security with or without collusions.
Our second result is a construction of multi-input PE, from the sub-
exponential LWE assumption, supporting conjunctions of n = poly(λ) arbi-
trary predicates with wildcards, i.e. for predicates of the form P(x1, . . . , xn) =
2 This is one of the diﬀerences between multi-key PE and multi-input PE: the former
has a public-key encryption algorithm, whereas the latter could have a secret-key
encryption algorithm.

576
D. Francati et al.
P1(x1) ∧. . . ∧Pn(xn) such that, for each i ∈[n], there exists a (public) wildcard
input x⋆
i for which Pi(x⋆
i ) = 1 for every i-th predicate Pi.3 Our multi-input PE
construction retains its security only in the setting of no corruptions (i.e., the
encryption keys eki are kept secret) and no collusions (i.e., the adversary only
knows a single decryption key dkP for an adversarially chosen predicate P).
Theorem 2 (Informal). Assuming the sub-exponential hardness of LWE, there
exists a CPA-1-sided adaptively secure multi-input PE scheme supporting con-
junctions of n = poly(λ) arbitrary predicates with wildcards, without corruptions
and without collusions.
Our third result is a construction of multi-input PE, from the sub-exponential
LWE assumption, supporting the same class of predicates as above but tolerating
adaptive corruptions of up to n−1 parties. However, this particular scheme only
supports predicates with constant arity.
Theorem 3 (Informal). Assuming the sub-exponential hardness of LWE, there
exists a CPA-1-sided adaptively secure multi-input PE scheme supporting con-
junctions of n = O(1) arbitrary predicates with wildcards, under n −1 adaptive
corruptions and without collusions.
Finally, we anticipate that all our constructions are transformations that
leverage single-input PE schemes (e.g., [30]) and lockable obfuscation [31,48] as
building blocks. Such transformations are general and achieve CPA-2-sided secu-
rity if the underlying single-input PE schemes are CPA-2-sided secure. In partic-
ular, we obtain (i) CPA-2-sided secure multi-key PE with unbounded collusions
for n = poly(λ), (ii) CPA-2-sided secure multi-input PE without corruptions and
without collusions for n = O(log(λ)),4 and (iii) CPA-2-sided secure multi-input
PE under n −1 corruptions and without collusions for n = O(1). However, at
the time of this writing, the LWE assumption is not suﬃcient for CPA-2-sided
security. Indeed, even for single-input PE for arbitrary predicates, CPA-2-sided
security implies iO [15]. The current state-of-the-art constructions of iO require
much stronger assumptions compared to standard LWE.
1.2
Technical Overview
We now give a high level overview of our constructions. As explained above, both
our multi-key and multi-input PE constructions handle conjunctions of arbitrary
predicates, i.e., predicates of the form:
P(x1, . . . , xn) = P1(x1) ∧. . . ∧Pn(xn).
(1)
3 Note that, in the setting with no corruptions, assuming the presence of a (single)
wildcard x⋆
i for each Pi does not aﬀect the expressiveness and the security guarantees
of multi-input PE. This is because the i-th sender can simply choose not to encrypt
x⋆
i , which will not permit the receiver to evaluate Pi over x⋆
i .
4 Note that, in case of no corruptions, our CPA-1-sided construction supports n =
poly(λ). However, to achieve CPA-2-sided security we use complexity leveraging and
this reduces n from poly(λ) to O(log(λ)).

Multi-key and Multi-input Predicate Encryption from Learning with Errors
577
We start by explaining how to build multi-key PE for the above class of pred-
icates by combining single-input PE and so-called lockable obfuscation [31,48].
Informally, a lockable obfuscation scheme allows to obfuscate a circuit C under
a lock y together with a message m, in such a way that evaluating the obfus-
cated circuit, on input x, returns m if C(x) = y. As for security, an obfuscated
circuit can be simulated in a virtual black-box (VBB) fashion whenever the lock
is random and unknown to the adversary. Lockable obfuscation exists under the
standard LWE assumption.
Then, we explain how to build multi-input PE (for the same class of pred-
icates) by additionally using SKE and PKE. Here, we consider two settings:
without corruptions (a.k.a. the secret-key setting) and with corruptions. The
former assumes that all the encryption keys (each corresponding to an input)
are secret. The latter is a stronger model that allows the adversary to leak one
or more encryption keys (i.e., corruption of the senders). We achieve security
in each setting by changing the way lockable obfuscation is used. In particular,
part of the contribution of this paper is a new technique based on nested (lock-
able obfuscated) circuits that execute each other. This technique allows us to
construct a multi-input PE that can handle adaptive corruptions. We provide a
high-level overview in the remaining part of this section. For more details, we
refer the reader to Sect. 4, Sect. 5, and the full version of this work [25].
Multi-key Predicate Encryption. An n-key PE allows a sender to encrypt a mes-
sage m under an attribute x, by running c ←$ Enc(mpk, x, m). Similarly to single-
input PE, a receiver can correctly decrypt c if it has a decryption key for a
predicate Pv, within a family P of predicates indexed by values v ∈V, such that
Pv(x) = 1. The main diﬀerence between single-input PE and n-key PE is that in
the latter the receiver must have n independent decryption keys (dkv1, . . . , dkvn)
that uniquely represent the predicate Pv(·) = Pv1,...,vn(·), i.e., the decryption
key associated to a particular predicate is decomposed into n decryption keys.
Each decryption key dkvi is generated by the authority via KGen(mski, vi) where
(msk1, . . . , mskn) are the master secret keys generated during the setup. Hence,
once obtained (dkv1, . . . , dkvn) from the authority, the receiver can decrypt the
ciphertext c (encrypted under attribute x) by executing Dec(dkv1, . . . , dkvn, c).
The message is returned if the predicate Pv1,...,vn(x) = 1, where Pv1,...,vn(·) is
the predicate represented by the combination of the n decryptions keys dkv1, . . . ,
dkvn. The security of n-key PE is analogous to that of single-input PE, where
the validity of the adversary A is deﬁned with respect to the (poly-many) tuples
(dkv1, . . . , dkvn) of n decryption keys that the adversary has access to. In par-
ticular, we consider the well-known notion of CPA-1-sided security, i.e., the
attacker cannot distinguish between Enc(mpk, x0, m0) and Enc(mpk, x1, m1) so
long as it only holds combinations of n decryption keys (dkv1, . . . , dkvn) such

578
D. Francati et al.
that Pv1,...,vn(x0) = Pv1,...,vn(x1) = 0 (i.e., the adversary cannot decrypt the
challenge ciphertext).5
As explained above, we focus on conjunctions of arbitrary predicates
Pv1,...,vn(x) = Pv1,...,vn(x1, . . . , xn) = Pv1(x1)∧· · ·∧Pvn(xn) as deﬁned in Eq. (1);
hence, x = (x1, . . . , xn) and each dkvi identiﬁes the i-th predicate of the conjunc-
tion (and, in turn, any tuple of n decryption keys uniquely identiﬁes the global
predicate). We build an n-key PE handling this class of predicates by extending
the technique of Goyal et al. [31], that uses lockable obfuscation to transform any
CPA secure attribute-based encryption (ABE) (recall that ABE schemes only
guarantee the secrecy of the message) into a CPA-1-sided secure PE (i.e., secrecy
of both message and attribute). Let PEi = (Setupi, KGeni, Enci, Deci) for i ∈[n]
be n single-input PE schemes, each with ciphertext expansion poly(λ) + |mi|
where |mi| is the message length supported by the i-th PE.6 In a nutshell,
our n-key PE scheme kPE = (Setup, KGen, Enc, Dec) works as follows. The setup
algorithm Setup simply executes Setupi of each PEi and outputs the master pub-
lic key mpk = (mpk1, . . . , mpkn) and n master secret keys (msk1, . . . , mskn). To
generate a decryption key dkvi ←$ KGen(mski, vi) (representing the i-th predicate
Pvi(·) of the conjunction), the authority can use the key generation algorithm
of the i-th PE, i.e., dkvi ←$ KGeni(mski, Pvi). To encrypt a message m under
an input x = (x1, . . . , xn), a sender samples a random lock y and encrypts it n
times using PE1, . . . , PEn, i.e., c ←$ Encn(mpkn, xn, Encn−1(mpkn−1, xn−1, · · · ,
Enc1(mpk1, x1, y))). Note that, for n = poly(λ), the ﬁnal ciphertext will be of
polynomial size since each underlying i-th PE scheme has poly(λ) + |mi| cipher-
text expansion where |mi| is the message length supported by i-th scheme.
The ﬁnal ciphertext of the n-key PE kPE will be the obfuscation of the circuit
Cc under the lock y together with the message m (i.e., C ←$ Obf(1λ, Cc, y, m)),
where Cc, on input (dkv1, . . . , dkvn), iteratively decrypts c and returns the last
decrypted value, i.e., y = Cc(dkv1, . . . , dkvn) = Dec1(dkv1, · · · , Decn(dkvn, c)).
Decryption is straightforward: the receiver simply executes C using its n decryp-
tion keys.
The CPA-1-sided security of our construction follows by the CPA secu-
rity (i.e., secrecy of the message) of PE1, . . . , PEn and by the security of lock-
able obfuscation.7 Intuitively, the proof works as follows. In order to be valid,
an adversary A cannot hold a tuple of decryption keys (dkv1, . . . , dkvn) such
that Pv1,...,vn(xb) = Pv1,...,vn(xb
1, . . . , xb
n) = 1, where xb = (xb
1, . . . , xb
n) is the
5 Observe that the decryption keys can be interleaved. For example, starting from
(dkv1, . . . , dkvi, . . . dkvn) representing the predicate Pv1,...,vi,...,vn, the adversary can
ask for an additional i-th decryption key dkv′
i and rearrange the decryption keys as
(dkv1, . . . , dkv′
i, . . . dkvn) in order to obtain the tuple representing a diﬀerent predi-
cate Pv1,...,v′
i,...,vn ̸= Pv1,...,vi,...,vn.
6 By leveraging hybrid encryption, we can transform any PE into one with poly(λ) +
|m| ciphertext expansion, i.e., Enc′(mpk, x, m) = Enc(mpk, x, s)||PRG(s) ⊕m where
s ←$ {0, 1}λ.
7 When we write CPA secure PE, without specifying 1-sided or 2-sided security, we
refer to a PE scheme that guarantees only the secrecy of the message. CPA secure
PE is the same as CPA secure ABE.

Multi-key and Multi-input Predicate Encryption from Learning with Errors
579
input chosen by A during the challenge phase, and b is the challenge bit. Since
Pv1,...,vn(xb
1, . . . , xb
n) is a conjunction of arbitrary predicates (see Eq. (1)), this
implies that there exists an i ∈[n] such that Pvi(xb
i) = 0 for every i-th decryption
key dkvi obtained by A. We can leverage this observation together with the CPA
security of PEi to do a ﬁrst hybrid in which the challenger computes the i-th
layer of the challenge ciphertext as Enci(mpki, xb
i, 0 . . . 0). Now, since the lock y
is not encrypted anymore, we can use the security of lockable obfuscation to do
a second hybrid in which the challenge ciphertext C is simulated by using the
simulator of lockable obfuscation. In this last hybrid, the challenge ciphertext
does not depend on the bit b sampled by the challenger.
Despite we focused the discussion on CPA-1-sided security, we stress that the
same construction achieves CPA-2-sided security if the underlying n single-input
PE schemes PE1, . . . , PEn are CPA-2-sided secure, i.e., Enc(mpk, x0, m0) and
Enc(mpk, x1, m1) are indistinguishable even when Pv1,...,vn(x0) = Pv1,...,vn(x1)
= 1 and m0 = m1.
Multi-input Predicate Encryption. We now turn to the more challenging setting
of multi-input PE.8 Here, each of the n senders can use its corresponding encryp-
tion key to independently encrypt messages under diﬀerent inputs for the pred-
icate. For this reason, the setup algorithm of n-input PE outputs n encryption
keys (ek1, . . . , ekn) and a master secret key msk. Each encryption key eki is given
to the i-th sender and allows the latter to handle the i-th slot of a multi-input pred-
icate. The i-th party encrypts a message mi under an input xi by using its encryp-
tion key eki, i.e., ci ←$ Enc(eki, xi, mi). On the other hand, a receiver can use the
decryption key dkP associated to an n-input predicate P (recall that dkP is gen-
erated by the authority via KGen(msk, P)) to execute Dec(dkP, c1, . . . , cn). Intu-
itively, the decryption algorithm returns (m1, . . . , mn) when P(x1, . . . , xn) = 1
where (mi, xi) are the message and the input associated to the i-th ciphertext ci.
The CPA-1-sided security of n-input PE is similar to that of n-key PE, but
adapted to the multi-input setting. Informally, an adversary A must not be
able to distinguish between ciphertexts (Enc(eki, x0
i , m0
i ))i∈[n] and (Enc(eki, x1
i ,
m1
i ))i∈[n] where (x0
1, . . . , x0
n), (x1
1, . . . , x1
n) and (m0
1, . . . , m0
n), (m1
1, . . . , m1
n) are
chosen by A. Naturally, this is subject to the usual validity condition, informally
saying that A should not be able to decrypt (part of) the challenge ciphertext.
This condition can assume diﬀerent meanings depending on whether the encryp-
tion keys are all secret or some of them are public (or can be leaked). Because of
this, we formalize security with and without corruptions. Throughout the rest
of this section, we describe how CPA-1-sided security of n-input PE changes in
these two settings, and give some intuition on our constructions for each setting.
Security in the Secret-Key Setting. Here, no corruptions are allowed and thus
the encryption keys are all secrets. Hence, an adversary A playing the CPA-
1-sided security game has adaptive oracle access to both the key generation
8 Indeed, as we discuss in Remark 1, CPA-1-sided (resp. CPA-2-sided) secure multi-
input PE for arbitrary predicates implies CPA-1-sided (resp. CPA-2-sided) secure
multi-key PE.

580
D. Francati et al.
oracle KGen(msk, ·) and to n encryption oracles {Enc(eki, ·, ·)}i∈[n]. The latter
oracles allow A to generate ciphertexts (associated to the i-th input/sender)
on adversarially chosen predicate inputs and messages. Since these ciphertexts
are created independently, the adversary has the power to interleave part of
the challenge ciphertext (c∗
1, . . . , c∗
n) with the ciphertexts obtained trough the
encryption oracles. This has a huge impact on the security of the a n-input PE
scheme and on the validity condition that A must satisfy. For example, during
the challenge phase, A could choose two vectors of messages (m0
1, . . . , m0
n) and
(m1
1, . . . , m1
n) and two vectors of predicate inputs (x0
1, . . . , x0
n) and (x1
1, . . . , x1
n)
such that for every predicate P (submitted to oracle KGen(m, ·)) we have
P(x0
1, . . . , x0
n) = P(x1
1, . . . , x1
n) = 0. Although the vector (c∗
1, . . . , c∗
n) can not
be directly decrypted, A could still be able to decrypt part of it by leverag-
ing the encryption oracles. In more details, A could: (i) adversarially choose
x′
i such that P(x0
1, . . . , x′
i, . . . x0
n) = 1 and P(x1
1, . . . , x′
i, . . . x1
n) = 0; (ii) submit
(x′
i, m′
i) to oracle Enc(eki, ·, ·) and obtain c′
i;and (iii) simply decrypt the vector
(c∗
1, . . . , c′
i, . . . , c∗
n). When b = 0 (resp.
b = 1), the adversary knows that the
challenge ciphertext must (resp. must not) decrypt successfully. This allows it
to easily win the CPA-1-sided security experiment of n-input PE. As a con-
sequence, the condition deﬁning when A is valid depends on both the queries
submitted to KGen(msk, ·) and to the oracles {Enc(eki, ·, ·)}i∈[n]. More precisely,
for every decryption key dkP corresponding to a predicate P, for every vector of
ciphertexts obtained by interleaving the challenge ciphertext (c∗
1, . . . , c∗
n) with
the ciphertexts generated trough any of the n encryption oracles, we must have
that P is not satisﬁed. This is formalized by the following condition: ∀P ∈QKGen,
∀j ∈[n], ∀i1 ∈[k1 + 1], . . . , ∀in ∈[kn + 1], it holds that
P(x(i1,0)
1
, . . . , x(ij−1,0)
j−1
, x0
j, x(ij+1,0)
j+1
, . . . , x(in,0)
n
) =
P(x(i1,1)
1
, . . . , x(ij−1,1)
j−1
, x1
j, x(ij+1,1)
j+1
, . . . , x(in,1)
n
) = 0,
(2)
where QKGen are the queries submitted to oracle KGen(msk, ·), (x0
1, . . . , x0
n), (x1
1,
. . . , x1
n) are the predicate inputs chosen by A during the challenge phase, and
Qb
i = {x(1,b)
i
, . . . , x(ki,b)
i
, x(ki+1,b)
i
= xb
i} is the ordered list composed of the ki
predicate inputs submitted to oracle Enc(eki, ·, ·) and the challenge input xb
i for
b ∈{0, 1}, i ∈[n] (observe that Q0
i and Q1
i are identical except for the last
element). The formal security deﬁnition appears in Sect. 4.
Construction in the Secret-Key Setting. We propose a construction of n-input
PE for conjunctions of arbitrary predicates (see Eq. (1)) with wildcards from
single-input PE, lockable obfuscation, and SKE. In particular, we start from
single-input PE for arbitrary predicates. Actually, it will suﬃce that the under-
lying PE itself supports the predicates P(x1, . . . , xn) as deﬁned in Eq. (1), where
we view (x1, . . . , xn) as a single input chosen by the sender. In addition, the
predicate must have a (eﬃciently computable) wildcard input (x⋆
1, . . . , x⋆
n) such
that x⋆
i satisﬁes every i-th predicate of the conjunction, i.e., Pi(x⋆
i ) = 1. As we
will describe next, the n −1 subset of wildcards (x⋆
1, . . . , x⋆
i−1, x⋆
i+1, . . . , x⋆
n) will

Multi-key and Multi-input Predicate Encryption from Learning with Errors
581
permit the i-th sender to put a “don’t care” placeholder on the slots of the other
senders. This will allow the construction to deal with multiple inputs without
compromising the evaluation of the predicate.
The main intuition behind our construction is to evaluate the conjunction of
the predicates inside lockable obfuscation in such a way that, as soon as one of
the predicates (of the conjunction) is not satisﬁed, both the messages and the
predicate inputs remain hidden (even if another predicate Pi is satisﬁed). To
accomplish that, we need to create a link between the independently generated
ciphertexts (each produced by diﬀerent senders). This is done by leveraging an
SKE scheme as follows.
In a nutshell, the i-th secret encryption key has the form eki = (mpk, ki, ki+1)
where mpk is the master public key of the single-input PE, and ki for i ∈[n] is
a secret key for the SKE (we also let ekn+1 = k1). In order to encrypt a message
mi under an input xi, the i-th sender samples a random lock yi and encrypts
(yi, ki+1) via the single-input PE, using the input made by all the wildcards x⋆
j
except for the position j = i, where, instead, the sender places its real input xi,
i.e., c(1)
i
←$ Enc(mpk, (x⋆
1, . . . , x⋆
i−1, xi, x⋆
i+1, . . . , x⋆
n), (yi, ki+1)). The ﬁnal cipher-
text ci will be ci = (Ci, c(2)
i ), where c(2)
i
←$ Enc(ki, c(1)
i ) and Ci is the obfuscation
of the circuit Cc(2)
i
,ki+1 under the lock yi and message mi. Similarly to the case of
multi-key PE, the latter circuit is responsible for the decryption. In particular,
upon input the ciphertexts (c(2)
i+1, . . . , c(2)
n , c(2)
1 , . . . , c(2)
i−1)—note the order of the
ciphertexts—and the decryption key dkP for P(x1, . . . , xn), the circuit Cc(2)
i
,ki+1
acts as follows:
1. Set k = ki+1 where ki+1 is the secret key hardcoded into the circuit.
2. For c(2)
j
∈{c(2)
i+1, . . . , c(2)
n , c(2)
1 , . . . , c(2)
i−1} do:
(a) Decrypt c(2)
j
using the secret key k, i.e., c(1)
j
= Dec(k, c(2)
j ).
(b) Decrypt c(1)
j
using dkP in order to get (yj, kj+1). If c(1)
j
decrypts correctly,
kj+1 is the secret key used to encrypt the next ciphertext c(2)
j+1.
(c) Set k = kj+1.
3. Compute (yi, ki+1) = Dec(dkP, Dec(k, c(2)
i )), where c(2)
i
is the ciphertext hard-
coded into the circuit.
4. Return yi (note that if none of the decryptions fails then yi is the lock used
to obfuscate the circuit).
By the above description, decryption is immediate: Upon input (ci)i∈[n], the
receiver computes mi = Ci(c(2)
i+1, . . . , c(2)
n , c(2)
1 , . . . , c(2)
i−1, dkP) where ci = (Ci, c(2)
i )
and dkP is the decryption key of the underlying single-input PE for a pred-
icate P(x1, . . . , xn). We highlight that the combination of the SKE with the
PE wildcards is what allows our construction to correctly implement the pred-
icates of Eq. (1). This is because, when c(1)
i
correctly decrypts under the key
dkP (Item 2b), we are guaranteed that Pi(xi) = 1 (recall that xi is the input
of the i-th sender). In particular, the latter holds as, in any other slot, the i-th
sender has used the wildcards. By repeating this argument, we can conclude

582
D. Francati et al.
that P(x1, . . . , xn) = P1(x1) ∧. . . ∧Pn(xn) is satisﬁed if the execution of each
Cc(2)
i
,ki+1 goes as expected. We refer the reader to the full version [25] for the
formal construction.
As for security, we show that our construction satisﬁes CPA-1-sided security
in the presence of no collusions (i.e., the adversary can submit a single query to
the oracle KGen) if the underlying PE is CPA-1-sided secure, SKE is CPA secure,
and the lockable obfuscation is secure. Roughly, the proof works as follows. Let
P∗be the only predicate submitted to KGen by the adversary. Starting from A’s
validity condition, we infer that, for any choice of the challenge bit b ∈{0, 1},
then attacker A must maintain one of the following two conditions:
(i) either P∗
1(xb
1) = . . . = P∗
n(xb
n) = 0 (i.e., all the predicates of the conjunctions
are false);
(ii) or (if at least one predicate P∗
i is satisﬁed, i.e., P∗
i (xb
i) = 1) there exists
j ̸= i such that, for every xj ∈Qb
j, it holds that P∗
j(xj) = 0 where Qb
j
is the ordered list composed of predicate inputs submitted to the oracle
Enc(ekj, ·, ·) and the challenge input xb
j (see Eq. (2)).9
When the ﬁrst condition is satisﬁed, we can leverage the CPA-1-sided security
of the single-input PE to show that the every lock yi (encrypted using the PE),
and every input xi (encrypted in c(2)
i ), is completely hidden to the adversary. The
latter allows us to use the security of lockable obfuscation to move to a hybrid
experiment in which all the (obfuscated) circuits are simulated (including the
messages).
On the other hand, when the second condition is satisﬁed, we can transition
to a hybrid experiment (this time by leveraging the security of the underlying
PE scheme) in which Enc(ekj, ·, ·) computes c(1)
j
by encrypting the all-zero string
(instead of (yj, kj+1)). Thus, we can use the security of lockable obfuscation to
move to another hybrid in which Enc(ekj, ·, ·) simulates all the obfuscations. At
this point, the symmetric key kj+1 is not used anymore. Hence, we can use the
security of SKE to transition to another hybrid in which Enc(ekj+1, ·, ·) computes
c(2)
j+1 by encrypting the all-zero string (instead of c(1)
j+1 that, in turn, contains the
lock yj+1 and the symmetric key kj+2). After this hybrid, we can again use
the security of lockable obfuscation to simulate all the obfuscations computed
by Enc(ekj+1, ·, ·), and so on. By repeating these last two hybrids, we reach an
experiment whose distribution does not depend on the challenge bit. The formal
construction appears in the full version of this work [25].
We highlight that our scheme is not secure in the presence of collusions. In
particular, the fact that the adversary can obtain a single decryption key dkP
is crucial in order to get the validity condition (ii), i.e., for every b ∈{0, 1}
there exists a j such that for every predicate (submitted to KGen(msk, ·)) we
have Pj(xb
j) = 0. In fact, in the case of collusions, the adversary can ask for two
decryption keys dkP and dkP′ such that for every b ∈{0, 1}:
9 If this condition is not satisﬁed, the adversary has obtained through the encryption
oracles a set of ciphertexts that can be interleaved with one (or more) parts of the
challenge ciphertext in order to satisfy the predicate P∗.

Multi-key and Multi-input Predicate Encryption from Learning with Errors
583
P1(xb
1) = 0 and P2(xb
2) = . . . = Pn(xb
n) = 1
P′
1(xb
1) = 1 and P′
2(xb
2) = . . . = P′
n(xb
n) = 0.
Note that these are valid queries for the CPA-1-sided security experiment of
n-input PE (the ciphertext cannot be decrypted). However, such a unique j for
every predicate (as per condition (ii)) does not exist. When this happens, we
are not able to conclude the proof by making a reduction to the security of
single-input PE (the reduction will make an invalid set of queries to the KGen
oracle of the single-input PE, making it invalid for the CPA-1-sided security of
the single-input PE).10
Lastly, we stress that since we start from a single-input PE supporting con-
junctions of arbitrary predicates with wildcards, we end up with an n-input PE
for conjunctions of arbitrary predicates (see Eq. (1)) with wildcards. We high-
light that wildcards do not play any role in the security proof of our secret-key
construction. In other words, wildcards are required for functionality (correct-
ness) and not for security. Indeed, in the secret-key setting (i.e., no corruptions),
wildcards can be easily removed. This is because we can transform any secure
multi-input PE for P(x1, . . . , xn) = P1(x1) ∧. . . ∧Pn(xn) with a single wild-
card (x⋆
1, . . . , x⋆
n) into a secure multi-input PE for the same class of predicates
P(x1, . . . , xn) without the wildcard. This can be done by requiring the senders
not to encrypt the corresponding wildcard, i.e., for each i ∈[n], Enc(eki, x⋆
i , mi)
outputs ⊥whenever xi = x⋆
i . We stress that this only works in the case of no
corruptions. In fact, as we will discuss later, in case of corruption, wildcards play
a role in the security of our corruption-resilient multi-input PE scheme, e.g., an
adversary can encrypt wildcards on its own using the leaked encryption keys.
Security Under Corruptions. Next, let us explain how to deﬁne security of multi-
input PE in the presence of corruptions. Here, the adversary has the possibility
to corrupt a subset of the senders and leak their encryption keys eki. We model
this by introducing an additional corruption oracle Corr(·) that, upon input an
index i ∈[n], returns eki. Note that, once obtained eki, the adversary A has
the possibility to produce arbitrary ciphertexts on any message and predicate
input, without interacting with the challenger during the CPA-1-sided security
game. As usual, the validity condition heavily depends on the queries submitted
to both the encryption oracles and the corruption oracle. More precisely, the
validity condition now says that, for every decryption key dkP, for every vec-
tor of ciphertexts that can be obtained by interleaving the challenge ciphertext
(c∗
1, . . . , c∗
n) with both the ciphertexts obtain trough any of the (uncorrupted)
encryption oracles and the ones that A may autonomously produce by using the
leaked encryption keys (trough oracle Corr(·)), we have that P is not satisﬁed.
Hence, the validity condition is identical to that of the secret-key setting (see
Eq. (2)), except that:
10 As we discuss in the full version [25], our construction remains secure if we consider a
weaker form of collusion in which the adversary can only obtain multiple decryption
keys for predicates P such that there is a unique j for all predicates (submitted to
KGen) that satisﬁes the validity condition (ii).

584
D. Francati et al.
– If the i-th encryption key eki has been corrupted/leaked, then Qb
i of Eq. 2
corresponds to the i-th predicate input space. This is because the adversary
can produce a valid ciphertext on any input xi.
– Else (i.e., the i-th encryption key eki is still secret), Qb
i is deﬁned as usual,
i.e., it is the ordered list of predicate inputs submitted to oracle Enc(eki, ·, ·)
and challenge input xb
i.
See Sect. 4 for the formal deﬁnition.
A Simple Attack. Before explaining our construction in details, let us show
why the previous construction is not secure under corruptions. For simplic-
ity, we focus on the 2-input setting. Suppose an adversary A has a single
decryption key dkP for P(x1, x2) = P1(x1) ∧P2(x2) and a vector of ciphertexts
(c∗
1, c∗
2) = ((C1, c(2)
1 ), (C2, c(2)
2 )) encrypted under the predicate input (x1, x2)
such that P1(x1) = 0 and P2(x2) = 1. Note that this ciphertext should not
decrypt under dkP, since the conjunction of P1 and P2 evaluates to 0. If A can
obtain ek2, then it can easily determine the message m2 (and thus the bit b).
Indeed, once A gets ek2 = (mpk, k2, k1), it can compute a malicious ciphertext
c(1)
1
(using the single-input PE) by encrypting (y, k2) (where y is a random
lock) under the predicate input composed by (x′
1, x′
2) such that P1(x′
1) = 1 and
P2(x′
2) = 1. Then, it can compute c(2)
1
←$ Enc(k1, c(1)
1 ) and execute C2(c(2)
1 , dkP)
to get m2. Note that by deﬁnition the execution of C2 outputs the correct mes-
sage, since P1(x⋆
1) ∧P2(x2) = 1 and c(2)
1
contains the correct secret encryption
key k2, allowing the circuit to correctly end the computation. Also, note that
this attack does not violate the validity condition. This is because P1(x1) = 0,
and A does not use the oracle Enc(ek1, ·, ·) at all. Hence, any interleaving of
the ciphertexts will involve the predicate input x1 that, in turn, will make the
conjunction P(x1, x′
2) = P1(x1) ∧P2(x′
2) unsatisﬁed for every choice of the input
predicate x′
2.
In light of the above attack, we can identify what we need to do in order
to extend our techniques to handle corruptions: First, following the proof of
the previous construction, it is important to hide the (plain) single-input PE
ciphertext that a particular sender produces (e.g., in the secret-key setting we
re-encrypt c(1)
i
using SKE). As we have described for the secret-key setting, this
allows us to claim that everything remains hidden whenever one of the predicate
Pi of the conjunction is not satisﬁed (even if a diﬀerent Pj is satisﬁed).11 Second,
the leakage of one (or more) encryption keys should not allow to produce a
malicious ciphertext on behalf of the uncorrupted senders (or simply decrypt
the ciphertexts of other parties). Otherwise, the attacker can follow a strategy
similar to the one above to break security.
11 The secret-key construction achieves this by linking multiple PE ciphertexts via
SKE, and including the secret key ki+1 into the PE ciphertext.

Multi-key and Multi-input Predicate Encryption from Learning with Errors
585
Construction Under Corruptions. In order to achieve the above properties, we
propose a new technique based on nested (lockable obfuscated) circuits that
can be executed one inside the other. This technique permits to make available
secret information (e.g., secret keys) only during nested execution. For the sake
of clarity, we ﬁrst present our approach for the case of two inputs. As an initial
attempt to deal with corruptions, we replace the SKE in our previous construc-
tion with a PKE, so that the encryption key ek1 (resp. ek2) is now composed of
(mpk, sk1, pk1, pk2) (resp. (mpk, sk2, pk2, pk1)) where (ski, pki) is a secret/public
key pair. Each (ski, pki) is associated to the i-th sender (indeed, note that eki con-
tains also the secret key ski). From the perspective of the ﬁrst sender, in order to
encrypt a message m1 under the input x1, it samples two random locks (yin
1 , yout
1 )
and encrypts them (using the single-input PE) as before using the wildcard x⋆
2,
i.e., c(0)
1
←$ Enc(mpk, (x1, x⋆
2), (yin
1 , yout
1 )).12 At this point, the PE ciphertext c(0)
1
is re-encrypted twice using pk1 and pk2, i.e., c(i)
1 ←$ Enc(pki, c(i−1)
1
) for i ∈[2].
Intuitively, the two layers of PKE have the role of hiding the PE ciphertexts
(that in turn contain the locks) even when the adversary leaks all encryption
keys except one. The ﬁnal ciphertext is composed by the two obfuscations Cout
1 ,
Cin
1 of the circuits Cout
sk1,c(2)
1 , Cin
sk1,c(2)
1 , respectively. The former is obfuscated under
the lock yout
1
and message m1, whereas the latter is obfuscated under the lock
yin
1 and message sk1. The ciphertext produced by the second sender, is identi-
cal, except that it uses sk2 (instead of sk1) and that c(0)
2
is computed using the
predicate input (x⋆
1, x2) (instead of (x1, x⋆
2)).
The crux of our nesting technique comes from the deﬁnition of the cir-
cuits Cout
ski,c(2)
i . More precisely, the outer circuit Cout
sk1,c(2)
1
will take as input the
obfuscation Cin
2 of the inner circuit Cin
sk2,c(2)
2
and a decryption key dkP. Then,
in order to securely check the conjunction inside the lockable obfuscation,
Cout
sk1,c(2)
1
will execute Cin
2 (sk1, dkP). At this point, Cin
2 has everything it needs
to check the satisﬁability of P2(·). It removes the PKE layers from c(2)
2
by
computing c(0)
2
= Dec(sk2, Dec(sk1, c(2)
2 )). Then, it decrypts the PE ciphertext
(yin
2 , yout
2 ) = Dec(dkP, c(0)
2 )—observe that the decryption succeeds if P2(x2) = 1—
and returns yin
2 . By correctness of lockable obfuscation, if the computation of
Cin
sk2,c(2)
2 (sk1, dkP) goes as intended, then Cin
2 (sk1, dkP) will output sk2 (the mes-
sage attached to the obfuscation). Once obtained sk2, the computation of Cout
sk1,c(2)
1
can continue and perform a similar computation to check the satisﬁability of P1(·)
except that, if the PE ciphertext c(0)
1
decrypts correctly, it returns yout
1 . If all the
decryptions (performed by Cout
sk1,c(2)
1
and Cin
sk2,c(2)
2 ) succeed, the execution of the
obfuscation Cout
1
of Cout
sk1,c(2)
1
will output m1. A symmetrical argument holds for
Cout
sk2,c(2)
2
and Cin
sk1,c(2)
1 , releasing m2.
12 Recall that wildcards must be eﬃciently computable.

586
D. Francati et al.
We show that the above 2-input PE construction is CPA-1-sided secure under
1 corruption (i.e., one encryption key remains secret) and no collusions if the
underlying single-input PE is CPA secure, PKE is CPA secure, and the lockable
obfuscation is secure. The high level intuition is that ski remains unknown to
the adversary if Pi(·) = 0 (unless the adversary invokes the oracle Corr(i)). This
is reﬂected by the proof technique that is sketched below.
Let dkP∗be the decryption key obtained by A for the predicate P∗(·, ·) =
P∗
1(·) ∧P∗
2(·) (recall the presence of wildcards), and let QCorr be the queries
submitted to the corruption oracle. Starting from the validity condition, we can
infer that for any choice of the challenge bit b ∈{0, 1} we have:
(i) either P∗
1(xb
1) = P∗
2(xb
2) = 0;
(ii) or (i.e., there exists an i ∈[2] such that predicate Pi is satisﬁed) j ̸∈QCorr
such that j ̸= i and, for every xj ∈Qb
j, P∗
j(xj) = 0 (recall that xb
j ∈Qb
j).
Observe that this second condition holds because of the following:
– If there is xj ∈Qb
j such that P∗
j(xj) = 1, A can use the correspond-
ing ciphertext to decrypt the i-th part of the challenge ciphertext since
P∗
i (xb
i) = 1.
– If j ∈QCorr, A can simply use ekj to encrypt a random message under the
wildcard x⋆
j (that always exists by design of our construction) and, again,
decrypt the i-th part of the challenge ciphertext. Note that, contrarily
from our secret-key construction, wildcards play an important role in
the security of our multi-input PE construction under corruptions (if an
encryption key ekj gets leaked then a malicious adversary can always
encrypt itself the j-th wildcards x⋆
j, satisfying the j-th predicate Pj).
Hence, in the corruption setting, wildcards are used for both functionality
and security.
By leveraging the above two conditions, the security of our scheme follows by
using a similar argument to that of the secret-key setting. In particular, when the
ﬁrst condition is satisﬁed, we can show that the locks (yin
1 , yout
1 ) and (yin
2 , yout
2 )
(used to encrypt the challenge) are completely hidden. This, in turn, allows
us to use the security of lockable obfuscation and simulate the obfuscations of
(Cout
sk1,c(2)
1 , Cin
sk1,c(2)
1 ), (Cout
sk2,c(2)
2 , Cin
sk2,c(2)
2 ), and the corresponding messages.
On the other hand, when the second condition is satisﬁed, we can move to
a hybrid (by leveraging the security of single-input PE) in which Enc(ekj, ·, ·)
computes c(0)
j
by encrypting the all-zero string (instead of (yin
j , yout
j )). Then, we
can use the security of lockable obfuscation to transition to another hybrid in
which Enc(ekj, ·, ·) simulates all the obfuscations. At this point, the secret key
skj of the uncorrupted j-th sender is not used anymore (recall that j ̸∈QCorr).
Hence, we can leverage the security of the PKE to remove the locks (yin
i , yout
i
)
chosen by the i-th sender (recall i ̸= j). In more details, we do another hybrid
in which the j-th PKE layer c(j)
i
of the challenge ciphertext is an encryption
of zeroes (instead of c(j−1)
i
that, in turn, encrypts the locks (yin
i , yout
i
)). After
this hybrid, we can again use the security of lockable obfuscation to simulate
all the obfuscations (and the corresponding attached messages) that compose

Multi-key and Multi-input Predicate Encryption from Learning with Errors
587
the i-th component of the ciphertext. The distribution of this last hybrid does
not depend on the challenge bit b since all the ciphertexts are simulated by the
simulator of the lockable obfuscation scheme.
To sum up, we can observe that encrypting c(0)
i
(the PE ciphertext that
contains the locks) with the public keys (pk1, pk2) of both senders is crucial in
order for our proof to work independently of which encryption key the adversary
decides to leak. So long as at least one encryption key eki remains hidden, then
there is a PKE layer that cannot be decrypted by the adversary. This allows the
proof to go through.
Generalizing the Nesting Technique to (n > 2) Inputs. By carefully modifying the
deﬁnition of the outer and inner circuits, we can generalize the above technique
to the case of n > 2. The structure of the encryption keys and of the encryption
algorithm is similar to the case n = 2:
– Each encryption key eki is of the form (mpk, ski, pk1, . . . , pkn).
– To compute the i-th encryption of (xi, mi), the sender computes the ini-
tial PE ciphertext as c(0)
i
←$ Enc(mpk, (x⋆
1, . . . , xi, . . . , x⋆
n), (yin
i , yout
i
)). Then,
it re-encrypts n times the ciphertext c(0)
i
using (pk1, . . . , pkn), i.e., c(v)
i
←$
Enc(pkv, c(v−1)
i
) for v ∈[n]. As usual, the ﬁnal ciphertext ci = (Cout
i , Cin
i ) is
composed of the obfuscations of Cout
ski,c(n)
i
and Cin
ski,c(n)
i
.
We now turn on the crucial point: the deﬁnition of the outer and inner circuits.
Again, for the sake of clarity, we only describe the outer circuit Cout
sk1,c(n)
1
and of the
inner circuits (Cin
sk2,c(n)
2 , . . . , Cin
skn,c(n)
n ) generated by the corresponding senders.
The remaining circuits are deﬁned similarly. First oﬀ, the input space of these
circuits is a follows:
– Cout
sk1,c(n)
1
takes as input the n −1 obfuscations of the circuits (Cin
sk2,c(n)
2 , . . . ,
Cin
skn,c(n)
n ) and a decryption dkP. These obfuscations are the inner circuits that
needs to be executed in order to return the message m1 attached to the
obfuscation of Cout
sk1,c(n)
1 .
– On the other hand, Cin
ski,c(n)
i
, for i ∈[n]\{1}, takes as input a tuple of n secret
keys (sk1, . . . , skn) (where some can be set to ⊥), a decryption key dkP, and
the obfuscations of (Cin
ski+1,c(n)
i+1, . . . , Cin
skn,c(n)
n ). Intuitively, these obfuscations
are the remaining inner circuits that we need to still execute in order to
complete the nested execution.
Intuitively, the decryption of m1 requires the nested execution of these circuits
(starting from the outer one) in order to get all the secret keys required to
decrypt the PE ciphertext. This is achieved as follows.

588
D. Francati et al.
The outer circuit Cout
sk1,c(n)
1
starts the nested execution by invoking the obfusca-
tion of Cin
sk2,c(n)
2
upon input (sk1, ⊥, . . . , ⊥), dkP, and the remaining obfuscations
of (Cin
sk3,c(n)
3 , . . . , Cin
skn,c(n)
n ). In turn, Cin
sk2,c(n)
2
will do a similar thing: It executes
the next obfuscated circuit Cin
sk3,c(n)
3
upon input (sk1, sk2, ⊥, . . . , ⊥), dkP, and the
remaining obfuscations (Cin
sk4,c(n)
4 , . . . , Cin
skn,c(n)
n ). This process is repeated until
Cin
skn,c(n)
n
is executed upon input (sk1, . . . , skn−1, ⊥) and dkP. At this point, all
the secret keys are know (observe that skn is hardcoded). From c(n)
n , we can
remove the n PKE layers, decrypt the PE ciphertext and, in turn, return yin
n if
the PE ciphertext decrypts correctly (i.e., Pn(·) is satisﬁed). Once Cin
skn,c(n)
n
ter-
minates, the secret key skn is released and Cin
skn−1,c(n)
n−1 performs the computation
required to check if Pn−1(·) is satisﬁed. Indeed, Cin
skn−1,c(n)
n−1 has been executed on
input (sk1, . . . , skn−2, ⊥, ⊥), it has skn−1 harcoded, and the execution of Cin
skn,c(n)
n
has released skn. Hence, after the correct termination of Cin
skn,c(n)
n , all secret keys
are known.
It may seems that this argument can be iterated. However, there is a prob-
lem. Even if Cin
skn−1,c(n)
n−1 correctly terminates, the circuit Cin
skn−2,c(n)
n−2 that invokes
it does not have access to the secret key skn. This is because the latter circuit
receives as input (sk1, . . . , skn−3, ⊥, ⊥, ⊥), it has skn−2 hardcoded, and the cir-
cuit Cin
skn−1,c(n)
n
has returned skn−1. As a consequence, Cin
skn−2,c(n)
n−2 must re-run
Cin
skn,c(n)
n
on input (sk1, . . . , skn−1, ⊥) in order to get skn and decrypt every PKE
layer. This needs to be done at any level of the nested execution, yielding an
asymptotic running time of O(nn). Hence, this technique only works assuming
n = O(1), i.e. for O(1)-input predicates. The formal construction is described
in Sect. 5.2.
On Achieving CPA-2-Sided Secure Multi-input PE. Until now, we only focused
the discussion on achieving CPA-1-sided security. Our multi-input constructions
achieve CPA-2-sided security if the underlying single-input PE is CPA-2-sided
secure (we highlight that, in our secret-key multi-input PE construction, we
need to reduce the n-arity from poly(λ) to O(log(λ)) since we use complexity
leveraging). We just recall here that, already for the simple notion of single-input
PE for arbitrary predicates, CPA-2-sided security implies iO [15].
1.3
Applications
Finally, we explore applications of multi-key and multi-input PE. This question
is particularly relevant given the fact that we are only able to obtain multi-
key and multi-input PE supporting conjunctions of arbitrary predicates (with
wildcards). Luckily, we can show that this class of predicates is already expressive
enough to yield interesting cryptographic applications which previously required
much stronger assumptions. We refer the reader to the full version [25] for more
details.

Multi-key and Multi-input Predicate Encryption from Learning with Errors
589
Matchmaking Encryption (ME). ME is a natural generalization of ABE in which
both the sender and the receiver can specify their own attributes and access
policies. Previous work showed how to obtain CPA-2-sided (i.e., mismatch and
match) secure ME for arbitrary policies with unbounded collusions using iO
[10,11], or for very restricted policies (i.e., for identity matching) using bilinear
maps [20,26] (and ROM [10]). To this end, our CPA-1-sided secure multi-key PE
scheme (from the sub-exponential LWE assumption) for conjunction of arbitrary
predicates implies the weaker (and non-trivial) notion of CPA-1-sided secure ME
(i.e., mismatch only). We stress that the seminal work of ME [10,11] deﬁned ME
in the setting of CPA-2-sided security (i.e., mismatch and match).
Non-interactive MPC (NI-MPC). NI-MPC [14,34] allows n parties to evaluate
a function f(v1, . . . , vn) on their inputs using a single round of communication
(i.e., each party sends a single message ci ←$ Enc(crs, eki, vi)). This is achieved by
assuming a trusted setup (that may depend on the function itself) that generates
(possibly correlated) strings (e.g., common reference string crs and encryption
keys eki) that can be later used by the parties to perform function evaluation.
Security is formalized using an indistinguishability-based deﬁnition: an adversary
A cannot distinguish between (Enc(crs, eki, v0
i ))i∈[n] and (Enc(crs, eki, v1
i ))i∈[n], so
long as any combination of the messages known by the adversary (including the
ones it can compute using the encryption key eki of a corrupted party) yields the
same function’s evaluation.13 Previous works [14,29,32,33] showed that NI-MPC
implies iO even if we consider very weak security models, like the non-reusable
1-robust (i.e., one malicious party) setting with n = 2 parties, or the reusable
0-robust (i.e., no malicious parties) setting with n = poly(λ) parties.14
We show that CPA-1-sided multi-input PE supporting predicates P(x1, . . . ,
xn) tolerating k corruptions and no collusions implies k-robust NI-MPC for the
following class of functions:
fP((x1, m1), . . . , (xn, mn)) =

(m1, . . . , mn)
if P(x1, . . . , xn) = 1
⊥
otherwise.
The resulting NI-MPC satisﬁes a weaker notion of reusability without session
identiﬁers (i.e., messages produced in diﬀerent rounds can be interleaved by
design) speciﬁcally tailored for all-or-nothing functions, which we name CPA-1-
sided reusability. In a nutshell, CPA-1-sided reusable NI-MPC guarantees secu-
rity even if the same setup is reused multiple times, so long as fP outputs ⊥(i.e.,
P is not satisﬁed) for any combination of the honest messages and the ones the
13 Note
that
security
of
NI-MPC
for
general
functions
is
formalized
by
an
indistinguishability-based deﬁnition [14,32]. This is because simulation-based NI-
MPC implies virtual black-box (VBB) obfuscation that is known to be impossible
for certain classes of functions [13].
14 Reusable NI-MPC remains secure even when the same setup is used over multiple
rounds. On the other hand, non-reusable NI-MPC does not permit to reuse the same
setup, i.e., after each round the setup algorithm needs to be executed.

590
D. Francati et al.
adversary can maliciously compute using the encryption key eki of a corrupted
party.
By plugging in our results, we obtain either CPA-1-sided reusable (n −1)-
robust NI-MPC with n = O(1), or CPA-1-sided reusable 0-robust NI-MPC with
n = poly(λ) where the predicate P of the function fP is a conjunctions of arbitrary
predicates (i.e., P(x1, . . . , xn) = P1(x1) ∧. . . ∧Pn(xn)) with wildcards under
the LWE assumption. Note that a CPA-1-sided reusable NI-MPC for fP where
P(x1, . . . , xn) = P1(x1)∧. . .∧Pn(xn) can be used to implement a voting protocol
with message passing, i.e., only when each parties’ vote xi satisﬁes its dedicated
set of requirements Pi(·) (i.e., Pi(xi) = 1 for every i ∈[n]) the messages are
revealed to all the participants. Until this condition is not satisﬁed, everything
remains secret.
We stress that, nonetheless CPA-1-sided reusability is a weakening of the
standard reusability deﬁnition, our ﬂavor of reusability is still non-trivial to
achieve in the setting of general functions. This is because we can build null
iO (and, in turn, witness encryption) [19,31,48] from CPA-1-sided reusable NI-
MPC using the same constructions of iO from (standard) reusable NI-MPC, i.e.,
CPA-1-sided reusable (resp. CPA-1-sided non-reusable) 0-robust (resp. 1-robust)
NI-MPC for n = poly(λ) parties (resp. n = 2 parties) and general functions
implies null iO.
1.4
Relation with Witness Encryption (WE)
We observe that both multi-input and multi-key schemes imply witness encryp-
tion (WE) [27], if the former support arbitrary predicates (or any predicate that
implements a desired NP relation). Brakerski et al. [19] have shown that n-input
ABE (i.e., predicate inputs can be public), secure in the secret-key setting and
without collusions, implies WE for NP and n-size witnesses. Similarly, we can
build WE from multi-key ABE (i.e., a multi-key scheme where predicate inputs
can be public) using a similar construction except that we substitute the multi-
ple inputs with the multiple decryption keys of multi-key ABE. Unfortunately,
we cannot use here our constructions of multi-key and multi-input since they
only support conjunctions of arbitrary predicates (we stress that CPA-1-sided
and CPA-2-sided security are not required for constructing WE).
We also observe that arbitrary predicates are not needed if we consider secu-
rity under corruptions. Indeed, 2-input ABE for conjunctions of arbitrary pred-
icates P(x1, x2) = P1(x1) ∧P2(x2) without wildcards under 1 corruption and no
collusions, implies WE for any relation. Even in this case, our O(1)-input scheme
under corruptions fails to imply WE. This is because our construction supports
conjunctions of arbitrary predicates each one having a wildcard (in other words,
the wildcard is a trivial witness for any statement). We provide more details in
the full version of this work [25].

Multi-key and Multi-input Predicate Encryption from Learning with Errors
591
From these observations, we can identify two plausible approaches that could
lead to a construction of WE from standard assumptions: (i) enlarging the class
of predicates of our secret-key n-input or n-key constructions, or (ii) supporting
conjunctions of arbitrary predicates (without wildcards) in the setting of 2-input
ABE with security under 1 corruption.
2
Related Work
Multi-input PE is a special case of multi-input FE [29]. It is well known that
so-called compact FE (supporting arbitrary functions) implies multi-input FE
[9,15], which in turn implies iO. Constructions of multi-input FE from standard
assumptions, in turn, exist for restricted functions [1–4,6,7,16,21,22,24,39,44].
Multi-input PE can also be seen as stronger form of multi-input ABE [19], the
diﬀerence being that the attributes are not private in the case of ABE. Previously
to our work, all (provably secure) constructions of n-input ABE with n > 2
required iO (the only exception is the concurrent work of Agrawal et al. [8],
which we discuss in the next paragraph).
The multi-input and multi-key settings have also been considered in the
context of fully-homomorphic encryption [23,40,41].
Concurrent and Independent Work. The independent and concurrent work of
Agrawal, Yadav, and Yamada [8] proposes two constructions of secret-key (i.e.,
no corruptions) 2-input key-policy ABE for NC1 with unbounded collusions
(recall that, in the ABE setting, only the secrecy of the messages is guaranteed,
i.e., inputs can be public). The ﬁrst construction is based on LWE and pairings,
and it is provably secure in the generic group model. The second construction
is based on function-hiding inner-product FE, a variant of the non-falsiﬁable
KOALA knowledge assumption (which is proven to hold under the bilinear
generic group model), and LWE. However, this second construction achieves
a weaker selective ﬂavor of security in which the adversary has to submit both
the challenge and the decryption key queries before the setup phase. Addition-
ally, they propose two heuristic constructions. The ﬁrst is a 2-input ABE for
P from lattices, and the second is a 3-input ABE for NC1 from pairings and
lattices. However, the security of these heuristic constructions remains unclear.
In comparison, our work directly focuses on the PE setting (i.e., CPA-1-sided
security) and provides the ﬁrst secret-key n-input PE that supports n = poly(λ)
inputs, with (adaptive) CPA-1-sided security (i.e., secrecy of both inputs and
messages) based solely on LWE. However, our construction only supports a
restricted class of predicates (i.e., conjunctions of arbitrary predicates with wild-
cards) and it is secure only in the case of no collusions. Furthermore, diﬀerently
from [8], we move away from the secret-key setting and propose a second con-
struction of n-input PE (still for conjunctions of arbitrary predicates) that sup-
ports n = O(1) inputs and can tolerate n−1 corruptions (i.e., up to n−1 encryp-
tion keys can be adaptively revealed by the adversary). Finally, we propose the
notion of multi-key PE (not covered in [8]), and give the ﬁrst construction of

592
D. Francati et al.
CPA-1-sided secure n-key PE for n = poly(λ), with unbounded collusions and
still supporting conjunctions of arbitrary predicates, based on LWE.
Regarding the techniques, we highlight that both our work and that of [8]
introduce (albeit diﬀerent) nesting techniques based on lockable obfuscation. In
particular, the nesting technique of [8] permits to transform any secret-key n-
input ABE into a secret-key n-input PE (achieving CPA-1-sided security). We
stress that their approach only works in the secret-key setting. In contrast, we
propose a diﬀerent nesting technique which yields n-input PE for n = O(1) while
tolerating n −1 corruptions. It is important to note that our nesting technique
is not generic, but it is speciﬁcally tailored to work with the class of predicates
considered in this work.
Turning to applications, we highlight that the multi-input schemes of [8] fail
to imply ME, since their constructions are all in the secret-key setting (whereas
ME requires a public-key encryption algorithm). As for NI-MPC, the construc-
tions in [8] can be used to obtain a CPA-1-sided 0-robust reusable NI-MPC for
all-or-nothing functions deﬁned over arbitrary predicates, but only in the case
of 2 parties (3 parties if we consider also the heuristic constructions).
3
Preliminaries
We assume the reader to be familiar with standard cryptographic notation and
deﬁnitions. The preliminaries can be found in the full version [25].
4
Multi-key and Multi-input Predicate Encryption
We provide the formal deﬁnitions of multi-key PE and multi-input PE. In the full
version [25], we build ME from multi-key PE and CPA-1-sided reusable robust
NI-MPC for all-or-nothing functions from multi-input PE.
Multi-key PE. Formally, an n-key PE with message space M, input space X,
and predicate space P = {Pv1,...,vn(x)}(v1,...,vn)∈V indexed by V = V1 × . . . × Vn,
is composed of the following polynomial-time algorithms:
Setup(1λ): Upon input the security parameter 1λ the setup algorithm outputs
the master public key mpk and the n master secret key (msk1, . . . , mskn).
KGen(mski, vi): Let i ∈[n]. The randomized key generator takes as input the i-th
master secret key mski and the i-th index vi ∈Vi. The algorithm outputs the
i-th secret decryption key dkvi for the predicate index vi.
Enc(mpk, x, m): The randomized encryption algorithm takes as the master public
key mpk, an input x ∈X, and a message m ∈M. The algorithm produces a
ciphertext c.
Dec(dkv1, . . . , dkvn, c): The deterministic decryption algorithm takes as input n
secret decryption keys (dkv1, . . . , dkvn) for the n indexes (v1, . . . , vn) ∈V and
a ciphertext c. The algorithm outputs a message m.

Multi-key and Multi-input Predicate Encryption from Learning with Errors
593
Fig. 1. Game deﬁning CPA-t-sided security of n-key PE.
Correctness is intuitive: given the decryption keys (dkv1, . . . , dkvn) for (v1,
. . . , vn) ∈V, the decryption algorithm returns the message m (encrypted under
the input x) with overwhelming probability, whenever Pv1,...,vn(x) = 1. See [25]
for the formal deﬁnition.
As for security, we adapt the standard CPA-1-sided and CPA-2-sided secu-
rity of PE to the n-key setting. In particular, an adversary (with oracle access
to KGen(mski, ·) for i ∈[n]) cannot distinguish between Enc(mpk, x0, m0) and
Enc(mpk, x1, m1) except with non-negligible probability. When considering CPA-
1-sided security, the adversary is valid only if it cannot decrypt the challenge
ciphertext, i.e., it asks to the n key generation oracles indexes (v1, . . . , vn) such
that Pv1,...,vn(x0) = Pv1,...,vn(x1) = 0. Analogously, the CPA-2-sided security
captures the indistinguishability of Enc(mpk, x0, m0) and Enc(mpk, x1, m1) even
when the adversary can decrypt the challenge ciphertext, i.e., Pv1,...,vn(x0) =
Pv1,...,vn(x1) = 1 and m0 = m1. These security deﬁnitions are formalized below.
Deﬁnition 1 (CPA-1-sided and CPA-2-sided security of n-key PE). Let
t ∈[2]. We say that a n-key PE Π is CPA-t-sided secure if for all valid PPT
adversaries A = (A0, A1):
P

GCPA-t-kPE
Π,A
(λ) = 1

−1
2
 ≤negl(λ),
where game GCPA-t-kPE
Π,A
(λ) is depicted in Fig. 1. Adversary A is called valid if
∀v1 ∈QKGen(msk1,·), . . . , ∀vn ∈QKGen(mskn,·), we have
Case t = 1: Pv1,...,vn(x0) = Pv1,...,vn(x1) = 0.
Case t = 2: Either Pv1,...,vn(x0) = Pv1,...,vn(x1) = 0
or Pv1,...,vn(x0) = Pv1,...,vn(x1) ∧m0 = m1.
Multi-input PE. Formally, an n-input PE with message space M = M1 ×
. . . × Mn, input space X = X1 × . . . × Xn, and predicate space P, is composed
of the following polynomial-time algorithms:
Setup(1λ): Upon input the security parameter 1λ the setup algorithm outputs
the encryption keys (ek1, . . . , ekn) and the master secret key msk.

594
D. Francati et al.
KGen(msk, P): The randomized key generator takes as input the master secret
key msk and a predicate P ∈P. The algorithm outputs a secret decryption
key dkP for predicate P.
Enc(eki, xi, mi): Let i ∈[n]. The randomized encryption algorithm takes as input
an encryption key eki, an input xi ∈Xi, and a message mi ∈Mi. The
algorithm produces a ciphertext ci linked to xi.
Dec(dkP, c1, . . . , cn): The deterministic decryption algorithm takes as input a
secret decryption key dkP for predicate P ∈P and n ciphertexts (c1, . . . , cn).
The algorithm outputs n messages (m1, . . . , mn).
Correctness states that ciphertexts (c1, . . . , cn), each linked to an input xi, cor-
rectly decrypt with overwhelming probability if P(x1, . . . , xn) = 1. See the full
version of this work [25] for the formal deﬁnition.
Security with and without Corruptions. The CPA-1-sided and CPA-2-sided secu-
rity of n-input PE capture the infeasibility in distinguishing between ciphertexts
(Enc(ek1, x0
1, m0
1), . . . , Enc(ekn, x0
n, m0
n)) and (Enc(ek1, x1
1, m1
1), . . . , Enc(ekn, x1
n,
m1
n)). This is modeled by an adversary having oracle access to a key genera-
tion oracle KGen(msk, ·) (allowing it to get decryption keys dkP on predicates
of its choice) and n encryption oracles Enc(ek1, ·, ·), . . . , Enc(ekn, ·, ·) (allowing
it to get encryptions of arbitrary messages and inputs). Diﬀerently from the
n-key setting, we consider diﬀerent models of security with respect to whether
the encryption keys are secret (i.e., no corruptions) or public/leaked (i.e., the
adversary has the possibility to get one or more encryption keys of its choice).
The corruption of an encryption key is captured by giving access to a corruption
oracle Corr(·) to the adversary that, on input i ∈[n], it returns eki. Intuitively,
the knowledge of eki impacts the validity condition that the adversary must
satisfy (e.g., the challenge ciphertext cannot be decrypted). Indeed, eki would
allow the adversary to produce arbitrary i-th ciphertexts on arbitrary i-th inputs
xi and potentially decrypt part of the challenge ciphertext. Concretely, as for
CPA-1-sided security, the validity of the adversary can be deﬁned as follows:
– No corruptions (a.k.a. the secret-key setting). If all the encryption keys
(ek1, . . . , ekn) are secret the validity conditions of CPA-1-sided security is
straightforward. It intuitively states that for every dkP (obtained through
oracle KGen(msk, ·)) and any tuple of ciphertexts (c1, . . . , cn) (each linked to
an input xi) obtained through the interleaving of part of the challenge cipher-
text with the ciphertexts generated by invoking oracles {Enc(eki, ·, ·)}i∈[n], we
must have that P(x1, . . . , xn) = 0 (otherwise part of the challenge ciphertext
can be decrypted).

Multi-key and Multi-input Predicate Encryption from Learning with Errors
595
Fig. 2. Game deﬁning CPA-t-sided security of n-input PE in the ℓ-corruptions setting.
Oracle Corr(j) returns ekj for j ∈[n].
– With corruptions. If some of the encryption keys are known by the adversary
(i.e., obtained through the corruption oracle Corr(·)) then the validity condi-
tion now changes according to which keys have been obtained. This is because
the adversary can now autonomously compute arbitrary ciphertext (for a par-
ticular slot i) using the leaked i-th encryption key eki. Taking into account
this observation, the validity of CPA-1-sided security with corruptions says
that any tuple of ciphertexts (c1, . . . , cn) that can be obtained by interleav-
ing part of the challenge ciphertexts with both the ones generated through
oracles {Enc(eki, ·, ·)}i∈[n] and the ones that can be autonomously generated
using the leaked encryption keys, we must have that P(x1, . . . , xn) = 0.
The validity of CPA-2-sided security (with and without corruptions) can be
easily obtained by adapting the above discussion. Below, we provide the formal
deﬁnition.
Deﬁnition 2 (ℓ-Corruptions CPA-1-sided and CPA-2-sided security of
n-input PE). Let t ∈[2]. We say that an n-input PE Π is CPA-t-sided secure
in the ℓ-corruptions setting if for all valid PPT adversaries A = (A0, A1):
P

Gℓ-CPA-t-iPE
Π,A
(λ) = 1

−1
2
 ≤negl(λ),
where game Gℓ-CPA-t-iPE
Π,A
(λ) is depicted in Fig. 2. Let Qi
= {x|∃(x, m) ∈
QEnc(eki,·,·)} for i ∈[n] \ QCorr and Qi = Xi for i ∈QCorr. Moreover, let Qd
i
(for d ∈{0, 1}) be the ordered list composed of the predicate inputs Qi and the
challenge input xd
i , i.e., Qd
i = {x(1,d)
i
, . . . , x(ki,d)
i
, x(ki+1,d)
i
= xd
i } where ki = |Qi|
and x(j,d) ∈Qi for j ∈[ki].15 Adversary A is called valid if |QCorr| ≤ℓand
15 Observe that Q0
i and Q1
i are identical except for the last element.

596
D. Francati et al.
∀P ∈QKGen, ∀j ∈[n], ∀i1 ∈[k1 + 1], . . . , ∀in ∈[kn + 1], we have
Case t = 1: P(x(i1,0)
1
, . . . , x(ij−1,0)
j−1
, x0
j, x(ij+1,0)
j+1
, . . . , x(in,0)
n
) =
P(x(i1,1)
1
, . . . , x(ij−1,1)
j−1
, x1
j, x(ij+1,1)
j+1
, . . . , x(in,1)
n
) = 0.
Case t = 2: Either
P(x(i1,0)
1
, . . . , x(ij−1,0)
j−1
, x0
j, x(ij+1,0)
j+1
, . . . , x(in,0)
n
) =
P(x(i1,1)
1
, . . . , x(ij−1,1)
j−1
, x1
j, x(ij+1,1)
j+1
, . . . , x(in,1)
n
) = 0
or
P(x(i1,0)
1
, . . . , x(ij−1,0)
j−1
, x0
j, x(ij+1,0)
j+1
, . . . , x(in,0)
n
) =
P(x(i1,1)
1
, . . . , x(ij−1,1)
j−1
, x1
j, x(ij+1,1)
j+1
, . . . , x(in,1)
n
) ∧m0
j = m1
j.
Through the paper, for t ∈[2], we say that Π is CPA-t-sided secure in the
ℓ-corruptions setting and without collusions if |QKGen| = 1 (i.e., the adversary
asks for a single decryption key). If |QCorr| = 0 (i.e., no corruptions), we say that
Π is CPA-t-sided secure in the secret-key setting. In case of both restrictions, we
say that Π is CPA-t-sided secure in the secret-key setting and without collusions
(i.e., |QCorr| = 0 and |QKGen| = 1).
Remark 1 (Relation with multi-key PE). In the full version of this work [25], we
show that CPA-t-sided secure (n+1)-input PE tolerating 1 corruption, naturally
implies CPA-t-sided secure n-key PE.16 We stress that such a relation holds only
if the (n + 1)-input PE supports arbitrary predicates. On the other hand, if we
consider restricted classes of predicates (as studied in this work), the above
implication does not to hold anymore, making multi-input and multi-key PE
incomparable.17
Also, we discuss the relation between the multi-key and multi-input settings
when considering a weaker deﬁnition of security. In particular, if we drop the
secrecy of the predicate inputs, i.e., only the the messages remain secret (which
is equivalent to ABE), then we can show that multi-key ABE implies multi-input
ABE only in the presence of no corruptions.
5
Constructions
In this section, we give diﬀerent constructions of multi-key and multi-input PE
(see also Sect. 1.2) for predicates P(x1, . . . , xn) = P1(x1) ∧. . . ∧Pn(xn).
16 If we restrict the n-key PE’s encryption algorithm to be secret-key (i.e., Enc(ek, ·, ·)
where ek is kept secret) then we can start from a secret-key (n + 1)-input PE, i.e.,
0 corruptions.
17 This is also reﬂected by the results achieved in this paper. For example, our multi-
key PE construction for conjunctions of arbitrary predicates tolerates unbounded
collusions whereas our multi-input PE constructions (for the same class of predicates
with wildcards) are signiﬁcantly more complex and are secure only in the case of no
collusions.

Multi-key and Multi-input Predicate Encryption from Learning with Errors
597
Fig. 3. Deﬁnition of the circuit Cc of Construction 1.
In particular, in Sect. 5.1 we give a construction of n-key PE from single-
input PE and lockable obfuscation for n = poly(λ). This construction is secure
against unbounded collusions.
In Sect. 5.2, we give a construction of O(1)-input PE, that is CPA-1-side
secure without collusions and in the (n −1)-corruptions setting, from single-
input PE, lockable obfuscation, and PKE. It leverages a new nesting execution
technique of (lockable obfuscated) circuits. Our secret-key n-input PE construc-
tion for n = poly(λ) is deferred to full version [25].
Both multi-input constructions support conjunctions of arbitrary predicates
with wildcards, i.e., for every i ∈[n], there exists (possibly unique) a wildcard
x⋆
i such that for every i-th predicate Pi we have Pi(x⋆
i ) = 1 (in [25] we discuss
how to remove the wildcard when no corruptions are in place).
Also, our constructions are generic and achieve CPA-2-sided security if
the underlying single-input PE is CPA-2-sided secure (our CPA-2-sided secure
secret-key multi-input PE construction (see [25]) supports n = O(log(λ))).
5.1
Multi-key PE from PE and Lockable Obfuscation
Construction 1. Consider the following primitives:
1. For i ∈[n], a PE scheme PEi = (Setupi, KGeni, Enci, Deci) with message
space Mi, input space Xi, and predicate space Pi = {Pv(x)}v∈Vi indexed by
Vi. Without loss of generality, we assume that PEi has ciphertext space Yi,
M1 = {0, 1}m(λ), and Mi = Yi−1 for every i ∈[n] \ {1}. In order to do not
incur into an exponential ciphertext growth (e.g., for n = poly(λ)), each i-th
PE scheme must have a ciphertext expansion of poly(λ) + |mi| where |mi| is
the length of the messages mi ∈Mi supported by the i-th PE scheme (this can
be obtained generically from any PE scheme by leveraging hybrid encryption,
i.e., Enci(mpk, x, s)||PRG(s) ⊕mi where s ←$ {0, 1}λ).
2. A lockable obfuscation scheme LOBF = (Obf, Eval) with message space M for
the family of circuits Cn,s,d(λ) = {Cc} as deﬁned in Fig. 3, where n(λ), s(λ),
d(λ) depends on the schemes PE1, . . . , PEn used, and the circuits Cn,s,d(λ).
We build a n-key PE scheme Π with message space M, input space X =
X1 × . . . × Xn, and predicate space P = {Pv1,...,vn(x1, . . . , xn) = Pv1(x1) ∧. . . ∧
Pvn(xn)}(v1,...,vn)∈V indexed by V = V1 × . . . × Vn (and Pvi ∈Pi for i ∈[n]), as
follows:

598
D. Francati et al.
Setup(1λ): Upon input the security parameter 1λ the randomized setup algorithm
outputs mpk = (mpk1, . . . , mpkn) and msk1, . . . , mskn where (mpki, mski)
←$ Setupi(1λ) for i ∈[n].
KGen(mski, vi): Let i ∈[n]. Upon input the i-th master secret key mski and the
i-th predicate index vi ∈Vi, the randomized key generator outputs dkvi ←$
KGeni(msk1, Pvi) where Pvi ∈Pi.
Enc(mpk, x, m): Upon input the master public key mpk = (mpk1, . . . , mpkn), an
input x = (x1, . . . , xn) ∈X, and a message m ∈M, the randomized encryp-
tion proceeds as follows:
1. Sample y ←$ {0, 1}s(λ) and let c0 = y.
2. For i ∈[n], compute ci ←$ Enci(mpki, xi, ci−1).
Finally, it outputs c = C where C ←$ Obf(1λ, Ccn, y, m).
Dec(dkv1, . . . , dkvn, c): Upon input n decryption keys dkv1, . . . , dkvn and a cipher-
text c = C, the deterministic decryption algorithm outputs m = Eval(C, (dkv1,
. . . , dkvn)).
Correctness follows from the correctness of the underlying schemes. We estab-
lish the following result whose proof is deferred to full version [25].
Theorem 4. Let n = poly(λ), PE1, . . . , PEn and LOBF be as above. If LOBF is
secure and
1. each PE1, . . . , PEn is CPA secure, then the n-key PE scheme Π from Con-
struction 1 is CPA-1-sided secure (Deﬁnition 1).
2. each PE1, . . . , PEn is CPA-2-sided secure, then the n-key PE scheme Π
from Construction 1 is CPA-2-sided secure (Deﬁnition 1).
We stress that CPA secure single-input PE (see the above theorem) guarantees
only the secrecy of the message (whereas predicate inputs can be public). This
is equivalent to the notion of single-input ABE.
5.2
Multi-input PE from PE, Lockable Obfuscation and PKE
Corruption Setting. We present our construction of n-input PE that is CPA-1-
sided secure in the (n−1)-corruptions setting without collusions. This construc-
tion handles constant-arity (i.e., n ∈O(1)) since the decryption running time
is O(nn). It is based on CPA secure single-input PE, lockable obfuscation, and
PKE and it leverages the nested execution technique described in Sect. 1.2. Also,
the same construction achieves CPA-2-sided security if the initial single-input
PE is CPA-2-sided secure.
Construction 2 (n-input PE in the corruption setting). Consider the following
primitives:
1. A PE scheme PE = (Setup1, KGen1, Enc1, Dec1) with message space M1 =
{0, 1}m3(λ)+m4(λ), input space X1 = X1,1 × . . . × X1,n, and predicate space
P1 = {P(x1, . . . , xn)} = {P1(x1) ∧. . . ∧Pn(xn)}. Without loss of generality,
we assume that PE has ciphertext space Y1 and there exists a (single) wild-
card input (x⋆
1, . . . , x⋆
n) ∈X1 such that ∀(P1(x1) ∧. . . ∧Pn(xn)) ∈P1, ∀i ∈
[n], Pi(x⋆
i ) = 1.

Multi-key and Multi-input Predicate Encryption from Learning with Errors
599
Fig. 4. Deﬁnitions of the circuits Cin
c,sk,i and Cout
c,sk,i supported by the lockable obfusca-
tion schemes LOBF3 and LOBF4 of Construction 2.
2. For i ∈[n], a PKE scheme PKE2,i = (KGen2,i, Enc2,i, Dec2,i) with message
space M2,i. Without loss of generality, we assume that PKEi has ciphertext
space Y2,i and secret-key space K2,i. Moreover, we assume that M2,1 = Y1,
and M2,i = Y2,i−1 for every i ∈[n] \ {1}.
3. A lockable obfuscation scheme LOBF3 = (Obf3, Eval3) with message space
M3 = (K2,1∪. . .∪K2,n)×{0, 1}⌊log2(n)⌋+1 for the family of circuits Cin
n3,s3,d3(λ)
= {Cin
c,sk,i} deﬁned in Fig. 4, where n3(λ), s3(λ), d3(λ) depends on the schemes
PE, PKE2,1, . . . , PKE2,n used, and the circuits Cin
n3,s3,d3(λ).
4. A lockable obfuscation scheme LOBF4 = (Obf4, Eval4) with message space
M4 for the family of circuits Cout
n4,s4,d4(λ) = {Cout
c,sk,i} deﬁned in Fig. 4, where
n4(λ), s4(λ), d4(λ) depends on the schemes PE, PKE2,1, . . . , PKE2,n, LOBF3
used, and the circuits Cout
n4,s4,d4(λ).

600
D. Francati et al.
We build a n-input PE scheme with message space M =
n

	

M4 × . . . × M4, input
space X = X1, and predicate space P = P1 = {P(x1, . . . , xn)} = {P1(x1) ∧. . . ∧
Pn(xn)} with wildcard (i.e., there exists a (single) wildcard (x⋆
1, . . . , x⋆
n) ∈X
such that ∀(P1(x1) ∧. . . ∧Pn(xn)) ∈P, ∀i ∈[n], Pi(x⋆
i ) = 1), as follows:
Setup(1λ): Upon input the security parameter 1λ the randomized setup algo-
rithm outputs (ek1, . . . , ekn) and msk where (mpk, msk) ←$ Setup1(1λ), eki =
(mpk, ski, pk1, . . . , pkn), and (ski, pki) ←$ KGen2,i(1λ) for i ∈[n].
KGen(msk, P): Upon input the master secret key msk and a predicate P ∈P, the
randomized key generator algorithm outputs dkP ←$ KGen1(msk, P).
Enc(eki, xi, mi): Let i ∈[n]. Upon input an encryption key eki = (mpk, ski,
pk1, . . . , pkn), an input xi ∈X1,i, and a message mi ∈M4, the random-
ized encryption algorithm samples (yin
i , yout
i
) ←$ {0, 1}s3(λ)+s4(λ) and proceeds
as follows:
1. Compute c(0)
i
←$ Enc1(mpk, (x1, . . . , xn), (yin
i , yout
i
)) where xj = x⋆
j for j ∈
[n] \ {i}.
2. For j ∈[n], compute c(j)
i
←$ Enc2,j(pkj, c(j−1)
i
).
Finally, it outputs ci = (Cout
i , Cin
i ), where Cout
i
←$ Obf4(1λ, Cout
c(n)
i
,ski,i, yout
i
, mi)
and Cin
i ←$ Obf3(1λ, Cin
c(n)
i
,ski,i, yin
i , (ski, i)).
Dec(dkP, c1, . . . , cn): Upon input a decryption key dkP for predicate P ∈P,
and n ciphertexts (c1, . . . , cn) such that ci = (Cout
i , Cin
i ) for i ∈[n]. The
deterministic decryption algorithm returns (m1, . . . , mn) where mi = Eval4(
Cout
i , (Cin
1 , . . . , Cin
i−1, Cin
i+1, . . . , Cin
n, dkP)) for i ∈[n].
Correctness follows from the one of the underlying primitives (see also Fig. 4
for the deﬁnitions of Cin
c,sk,i and Cout
c,sk,i). Moreover, decryption is polynomial time
when n ∈O(1). Below, we establish the following result whose proof is deferred
to full version [25].
Theorem 5. Let n = O(1), PE, PKE2,1, . . . , PKE2,n, LOBF3, and LOBF4 be as
above. If each PKE2,i (for i ∈[n]) is CPA secure, both LOBF3 and LOBF4 are
secure, and
1. PE is CPA secure without collusions, then the n-input PE scheme Π
from Construction 2 is CPA-1-sided secure in the (n −1)-corruptions set-
ting without collusions (Deﬁnition 2).
2. PE is CPA-2-sided secure without collusions, then the n-input PE scheme Π
from Construction 2 is CPA-2-sided secure in the (n −1)-corruptions setting
without collusions (Deﬁnition 2).
As for Theorem 4, CPA secure single-input PE (see the above theorem) guaran-
tees only the secrecy of the message (whereas predicate inputs can be public).
This is equivalent to the notion of single-input ABE.

Multi-key and Multi-input Predicate Encryption from Learning with Errors
601
Acknowledgements. The authors would like to thank the anonymous reviewers for
useful feedback. The ﬁrst author was supported by the Carlsberg Foundation under
the Semper Ardens Research Project CF18-112 (BCM); the second and the fourth
author were partially supported by project SERICS (PE00000014) under the NRRP
MUR program funded by the EU - NGEU and by Sapienza University under the
project SPECTRA; the third author was partially supported by the German Federal
Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) in the course of the 6GEM research
hub under grant number 16KISK038 and by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft
(DFG, German Research Foundation) under Germany’s Excellence Strategy - EXC
2092 CASA - 390781972.
References
1. Abdalla, M., Benhamouda, F., Gay, R.: From single-input to multi-client inner-
product functional encryption. In: Galbraith, S.D., Moriai, S. (eds.) ASIACRYPT
2019, Part III. LNCS, vol. 11923, pp. 552–582. Springer, Cham (2019). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-34618-8 19
2. Abdalla, M., Benhamouda, F., Kohlweiss, M., Waldner, H.: Decentralizing inner-
product functional encryption. In: Lin, D., Sako, K. (eds.) PKC 2019, Part II.
LNCS, vol. 11443, pp. 128–157. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-17259-6 5
3. Abdalla, M., Catalano, D., Fiore, D., Gay, R., Ursu, B.: Multi-input functional
encryption for inner products: function-hiding realizations and constructions with-
out pairings. In: Shacham, H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2018, Part I. LNCS,
vol. 10991, pp. 597–627. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
319-96884-1 20
4. Abdalla, M., Gay, R., Raykova, M., Wee, H.: Multi-input inner-product functional
encryption from pairings. In: Coron, J.-S., Nielsen, J.B. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2017,
Part I. LNCS, vol. 10210, pp. 601–626. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-319-56620-7 21
5. Agrawal, S., Freeman, D.M., Vaikuntanathan, V.: Functional encryption for inner
product predicates from learning with errors. In: Lee, D.H., Wang, X. (eds.) ASI-
ACRYPT 2011. LNCS, vol. 7073, pp. 21–40. Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-25385-0 2
6. Agrawal, S., Goyal, R., Tomida, J.: Multi-input quadratic functional encryption
from pairings. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) CRYPTO 2021, Part IV. LNCS,
vol. 12828, pp. 208–238. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-84259-8 8
7. Agrawal, S., Goyal, R., Tomida, J.: Multi-input quadratic functional encryption:
Stronger security, broader functionality. In: Kiltz, E., Vaikuntanathan, V. (eds.)
TCC 2022, pp. 711–740. Springer, Cham (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
031-22318-1 25
8. Agrawal, S., Yadav, A., Yamada, S.: Multi-input attribute based encryption and
predicate encryption. In: Dodis, Y., Shrimpton, T. (eds.) CRYPTO 2022, pp. 590–
621. Springer, Cham (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15802-5 21
9. Ananth, P., Jain, A.: Indistinguishability obfuscation from compact functional
encryption. In: Gennaro, R., Robshaw, M. (eds.) CRYPTO 2015, Part I. LNCS,
vol. 9215, pp. 308–326. Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-662-47989-6 15

602
D. Francati et al.
10. Ateniese, G., Francati, D., Nu˜nez, D., Venturi, D.: Match me if you can: match-
making encryption and its applications. In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio, D. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2019, Part II. LNCS, vol. 11693, pp. 701–731. Springer, Cham (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-26951-7 24
11. Ateniese, G., Francati, D., Nu˜nez, D., Venturi, D.: Match me if you can: match-
making encryption and its applications. J. Cryptol. 34(3), 1–50 (2021). https://
doi.org/10.1007/s00145-021-09381-4
12. Attrapadung, N.: Dual system encryption via doubly selective security: frame-
work, fully secure functional encryption for regular languages, and more. In:
Nguyen, P.Q., Oswald, E. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2014. LNCS, vol. 8441, pp. 557–
577. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-55220-5 31
13. Barak, B., et al.: On the (im)possibility of obfuscating programs. In: Kilian, J. (ed.)
CRYPTO 2001. LNCS, vol. 2139, pp. 1–18. Springer, Heidelberg (2001). https://
doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44647-8 1
14. Beimel, A., Gabizon, A., Ishai, Y., Kushilevitz, E., Meldgaard, S., Paskin-
Cherniavsky, A.: Non-interactive secure multiparty computation. In: Garay, J.A.,
Gennaro, R. (eds.) CRYPTO 2014. LNCS, vol. 8617, pp. 387–404. Springer, Hei-
delberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-44381-1 22
15. Bitansky, N., Vaikuntanathan, V.: Indistinguishability obfuscation from functional
encryption. In: Guruswami, V. (ed.) 56th FOCS, pp. 171–190. IEEE Computer
Society Press (2015). https://doi.org/10.1109/FOCS.2015.20
16. Boneh, D., Lewi, K., Raykova, M., Sahai, A., Zhandry, M., Zimmerman, J.: Seman-
tically secure order-revealing encryption: multi-input functional encryption with-
out obfuscation. In: Oswald, E., Fischlin, M. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2015, Part II.
LNCS, vol. 9057, pp. 563–594. Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-662-46803-6 19
17. Boneh, D., Waters, B.: Conjunctive, subset, and range queries on encrypted data.
In: Vadhan, S.P. (ed.) TCC 2007. LNCS, vol. 4392, pp. 535–554. Springer, Heidel-
berg (2007). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-70936-7 29
18. Brakerski, Z., D¨ottling, N., Garg, S., Malavolta, G.: Factoring and pairings are not
necessary for IO: circular-secure LWE suﬃces. In: ICALP 2022. Schloss Dagstuhl-
Leibniz-Zentrum f¨ur Informatik (2022). https://doi.org/10.4230/LIPIcs.ICALP.
2022.28
19. Brakerski, Z., Jain, A., Komargodski, I., Passel`egue, A., Wichs, D.: Non-trivial
witness encryption and null-iO from standard assumptions. In: Catalano, D., De
Prisco, R. (eds.) SCN 2018. LNCS, vol. 11035, pp. 425–441. Springer, Cham (2018).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-98113-0 23
20. Chen, J., Li, Y., Wen, J., Weng, J.: Identity-based matchmaking encryption from
standard assumptions. In: Agrawal, S., Lin, D. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2022, pp. 394–
422. Springer, Cham (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-22969-5 14
21. Chotard, J., Dufour Sans, E., Gay, R., Phan, D.H., Pointcheval, D.: Decentralized
multi-client functional encryption for inner product. In: Peyrin, T., Galbraith, S.
(eds.) ASIACRYPT 2018. LNCS, vol. 11273, pp. 703–732. Springer, Cham (2018).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-03329-3 24
22. Ciampi, M., Siniscalchi, L., Waldner, H.: Multi-client functional encryption for
separable functions. In: Garay, J.A. (ed.) PKC 2021, Part I. LNCS, vol. 12710, pp.
724–753. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-75245-3 26
23. Clear, M., McGoldrick, C.: Multi-identity and multi-key leveled FHE from learning
with errors. In: Gennaro, R., Robshaw, M. (eds.) CRYPTO 2015, Part II. LNCS,
vol. 9216, pp. 630–656. Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-662-48000-7 31

Multi-key and Multi-input Predicate Encryption from Learning with Errors
603
24. Datta, P., Okamoto, T., Tomida, J.: Full-hiding (unbounded) multi-input inner
product functional encryption from the k-linear assumption. In: Abdalla, M.,
Dahab, R. (eds.) PKC 2018. LNCS, vol. 10770, pp. 245–277. Springer, Cham
(2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-76581-5 9
25. Francati, D., Friolo, D., Malavolta, G., Venturi, D.: Multi-key and multi-input
predicate encryption from learning with errors. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2022)
26. Francati, D., Guidi, A., Russo, L., Venturi, D.: Identity-based matchmaking
encryption without random oracles. In: Adhikari, A., K¨usters, R., Preneel, B.
(eds.) INDOCRYPT 2021. LNCS, vol. 13143, pp. 415–435. Springer, Cham (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-92518-5 19
27. Garg, S., Gentry, C., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Witness encryption and its applications.
In: Boneh, D., Roughgarden, T., Feigenbaum, J. (eds.) 45th ACM STOC, pp. 467–
476. ACM Press (2013). https://doi.org/10.1145/2488608.2488667
28. Gay, R., Pass, R.: Indistinguishability obfuscation from circular security. In:
Khuller, S., Williams, V.V. (eds.) STOC 2021: 53rd Annual ACM SIGACT Sympo-
sium on Theory of Computing, Virtual Event, Italy, 21–25 June 2021, pp. 736–749.
ACM (2021). https://doi.org/10.1145/3406325.3451070
29. Goldwasser, S., et al.: Multi-input functional encryption. In: Nguyen, P.Q., Oswald,
E. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2014. LNCS, vol. 8441, pp. 578–602. Springer, Heidelberg
(2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-55220-5 32
30. Gorbunov, S., Vaikuntanathan, V., Wee, H.: Predicate encryption for circuits from
LWE. In: Gennaro, R., Robshaw, M. (eds.) CRYPTO 2015, Part II. LNCS, vol.
9216, pp. 503–523. Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
662-48000-7 25
31. Goyal, R., Koppula, V., Waters, B.: Lockable obfuscation. In: Umans, C. (ed.)
58th FOCS, pp. 612–621. IEEE Computer Society Press (2017). https://doi.org/
10.1109/FOCS.2017.62
32. Halevi, S., Ishai, Y., Jain, A., Komargodski, I., Sahai, A., Yogev, E.: Non-
interactive multiparty computation without correlated randomness. In: Takagi,
T., Peyrin, T. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2017. LNCS, vol. 10626, pp. 181–211. Springer,
Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-70700-6 7
33. Halevi, S., Ishai, Y., Jain, A., Kushilevitz, E., Rabin, T.: Secure multiparty com-
putation with general interaction patterns. In: Sudan, M. (ed.) ITCS 2016, pp.
157–168. ACM (2016). https://doi.org/10.1145/2840728.2840760
34. Halevi, S., Lindell, Y., Pinkas, B.: Secure computation on the web: computing
without simultaneous interaction. In: Rogaway, P. (ed.) CRYPTO 2011. LNCS,
vol. 6841, pp. 132–150. Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-642-22792-9 8
35. Jain, A., Lin, H., Sahai, A.: Indistinguishability obfuscation from well-founded
assumptions. In: Khuller, S., Williams, V.V. (eds.) STOC 2021: 53rd Annual ACM
SIGACT Symposium on Theory of Computing, Virtual Event, Italy, 21–25 June
2021, pp. 60–73. ACM (2021). https://doi.org/10.1145/3406325.3451093
36. Jain, A., Lin, H., Sahai, A.: Indistinguishability obfuscation from LPN over Fp,
DLIN, and PRGs in NC0. In: Dunkelman, O., Dziembowski, S. (eds.) EURO-
CRYPT 2022, Part I. LNCS, vol. 13275, pp. 670–699. Springer, Heidelberg (2022).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-06944-4 23
37. Katz, J., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Predicate encryption supporting disjunctions, poly-
nomial equations, and inner products. In: Smart, N. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2008.
LNCS, vol. 4965, pp. 146–162. Springer, Heidelberg (2008). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-540-78967-3 9

604
D. Francati et al.
38. Lewko, A., Okamoto, T., Sahai, A., Takashima, K., Waters, B.: Fully secure
functional encryption: attribute-based encryption and (hierarchical) inner prod-
uct encryption. In: Gilbert, H. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2010. LNCS, vol. 6110, pp.
62–91. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-13190-5 4
39. Libert, B., T¸it¸iu, R.: Multi-client functional encryption for linear functions in the
standard model from LWE. In: Galbraith, S.D., Moriai, S. (eds.) ASIACRYPT
2019, Part III. LNCS, vol. 11923, pp. 520–551. Springer, Cham (2019). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-34618-8 18
40. L´opez-Alt, A., Tromer, E., Vaikuntanathan, V.: On-the-ﬂy multiparty computation
on the cloud via multikey fully homomorphic encryption. In: Karloﬀ, H.J., Pitassi,
T. (eds.) 44th ACM STOC, pp. 1219–1234. ACM Press (2012). https://doi.org/
10.1145/2213977.2214086
41. Mukherjee, P., Wichs, D.: Two round multiparty computation via multi-key FHE.
In: Fischlin, M., Coron, J.-S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2016, Part II. LNCS, vol.
9666, pp. 735–763. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
662-49896-5 26
42. Okamoto, T., Takashima, K.: Fully secure functional encryption with general rela-
tions from the decisional linear assumption. In: Rabin, T. (ed.) CRYPTO 2010.
LNCS, vol. 6223, pp. 191–208. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-642-14623-7 11
43. Okamoto, T., Takashima, K.: Adaptively attribute-hiding (hierarchical) inner
product encryption. In: Pointcheval, D., Johansson, T. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2012.
LNCS, vol. 7237, pp. 591–608. Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-642-29011-4 35
44. Tomida, J.: Tightly secure inner product functional encryption: multi-input
and function-hiding constructions. In: Galbraith, S.D., Moriai, S. (eds.) ASI-
ACRYPT 2019, Part III. LNCS, vol. 11923, pp. 459–488. Springer, Cham (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-34618-8 16
45. Waters, B.: Functional encryption for regular languages. In: Safavi-Naini, R.,
Canetti, R. (eds.) CRYPTO 2012. LNCS, vol. 7417, pp. 218–235. Springer, Hei-
delberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-32009-5 14
46. Wee, H.: Dual system encryption via predicate encodings. In: Lindell, Y. (ed.) TCC
2014. LNCS, vol. 8349, pp. 616–637. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-642-54242-8 26
47. Wee, H., Wichs, D.: Candidate obfuscation via oblivious LWE sampling. In: Can-
teaut, A., Standaert, F.-X. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2021, Part III. LNCS, vol. 12698,
pp. 127–156. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-77883-5 5
48. Wichs, D., Zirdelis, G.: Obfuscating compute-and-compare programs under LWE.
In: Umans, C. (ed.) 58th FOCS, pp. 600–611. IEEE Computer Society Press (2017).
https://doi.org/10.1109/FOCS.2017.61

