New Limits of Provable Security
and Applications to ElGamal Encryption
Sven Sch¨age(B)
Eindhoven University of Technology, Eindhoven, Netherlands
s.schage@tue.nl
Abstract. We provide new results showing that ElGamal encryption
cannot be proven CCA1-secure – a long-standing open problem in cryp-
tography. Our result follows from a very broad, meta-reduction-based
impossibility result on random self-reducible relations with eﬃciently re-
randomizable witnesses. The techniques that we develop allow, for the
ﬁrst time, to provide impossibility results for very weak security notions
where the challenger outputs fresh challenge statements at the end of
the security game. This can be used to ﬁnally tackle encryption-type
deﬁnitions that have remained elusive in the past. We show that our
results have broad applicability by casting several known cryptographic
setups as instances of random self-reducible and re-randomizable rela-
tions. These setups include general semi-homomorphic PKE and the
large class of certiﬁed homomorphic one-way bijections. As a result,
we also obtain new impossibility results for the IND-CCA1 security of
the PKEs of Paillier and Damg˚ard–Jurik, and many one-more inversion
assumptions like the one-more DLOG or the one-more RSA assumption.
1
Introduction
The ElGamal public-key encryption (PKE) scheme from 1984 is, besides RSA,
the most well-known asymmetric encryption system today and its importance
for the development of cryptography can hardly be overestimated [19]. It is con-
ceptually simple and, since it supports the use of elliptic curves, can provide very
high eﬃciency. In the past, ElGamal encryption has served as a fruitful template
for the development of new schemes that are based on novel mathematical struc-
tures like bilinear pairings or lattices and, via further modiﬁcations, paved the
way for new powerful primitives like IBE and functional encryption. Most PKE
systems that are used in practice are enhancements of the basic ElGamal scheme
that additionally armor it from strong active attacks. The scheme has become
so much part of the cryptographic canon, that introductory academic courses on
cryptography that do not cover ElGamal are hardly imaginable.
Security Guarantees of ElGamal PKE. ElGamal is well-known to be IND-CPA
secure (under the DDH assumption) which states that an attacker A who is
S. Sch¨age—The author has partially been supported by the CONFIDENTIAL6G
project that is co-funded by the European Union (grant agreement ID: 101096435).
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2024
M. Joye and G. Leander (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2024, LNCS 14654, pp. 255–285, 2024.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-58737-5_10

256
S. Sch¨age
given a challenge ciphertext c∗cannot distinguish if it encrypts message m∗
0 or
m∗
1, even if both messages have been chosen by A. Unfortunately, it turns out
that without further modiﬁcations ElGamal PKE cannot fulﬁll the stronger,
standard notion of IND-CCA2 security, where the attacker is also allowed to
query a decryption oracle at any point in the security game (with the restriction
that the challenge ciphertext may not be queried). Essentially this is due to
the malleability of the ciphertexts in ElGamal encryption, making it possible to
query a slight modiﬁcation c′∗of c∗to the decryption oracle and use the answer
to c′∗to ﬁnd the message within c∗. This impossibility result is unconditional
and there is no hope to circumvent it. However, there is another widespread but
slightly weaker notion of security called lunchtime attacks or IND-CCA1 security.
According to this notion, the attacker is allowed to also query the decryption
oracle but only before she receives the challenge ciphertext. Now the above attack
cannot be applied anymore since decryption queries cannot depend on c∗. For
decades, the exact state of ElGamal’s security against lunchtime attacks has
remained unclear and, despite the theoretical and practical importance of this
scheme, hardly any progress towards that goal has been made. In this paper, we
provide new, major contributions to the following long-standing open question.1
Can ElGamal PKE be shown IND-CCA1 secure?
We answer this question negatively in a very strong sense as detailed below.
Main Result. Our result on ElGamal encryption immediately follows from two
fundamental results on random self-reducible and re-randomizable relations
(RRRs) that are assumed to be hard to invert. In a nutshell, an RRR consists of
a special relation R that is accompanied by a set of eﬃcient algorithms for sam-
pling, self-reducibility of statements, and re-randomizability of witnesses. A vari-
ant of RRRs that we call strong RRR additionally provides an eﬃcient but indi-
rect membership test. Although (strong) RRRs have a comparatively rich struc-
ture, we show that many cryptographic setups can be captured via the notion
of RRRs. Remarkably, this includes general semi-homomorphic PKE (includ-
ing ElGamal, Paillier, and Damg˚ard–Jurik PKE) where statement/witness pairs
correspond to ciphertext/plaintext pairs, and certiﬁed homomorphic one-way
bijections (e.g., RSA, DLOG), where statement/witness pairs correspond to out-
put/input pairs.
In our central result, we consider a security game (Fig. 1) in which an attacker
has to invert an RRR (i.e. ﬁnd witnesses w∗) on a set of random challenge
statements s∗(such that (s∗, w∗) ∈R) that are speciﬁed at the very end of
the security game. Deriving impossibility results for this challenging scenario
has proven elusive in the past and our work is the ﬁrst to provide an approach
to this problem by exploiting the properties of RRRs. In a nutshell, our result
shows that if the attacker is allowed to make t + 1 inversion queries, we cannot
1 To provide some examples of explicit accounts on the importance of the question
by well-known researchers, Yehuda Lindell calls the problem a “big open question”
[27], whereas Helga Lipmaa terms it a “well-known open problem” [29].

New Limits of Provable Security and Applications to ElGamal Encryption
257
Fig. 1. Security game considered in this work. We consider a relation R with statements
s and witnesses w that is used in a security game played between a challenger C and an
attacker A. The certiﬁcate cert proves that R is a re-randomizable and self-reducible
relation. A has access to t adaptive inversion queries si and for each query receives
back wi such that (si, wi) ∈R. For every challenge statement s∗
i , A must output w∗
i
such that (s∗
i , w∗
i ) ∈R.
have a security reduction that is based on a security assumption that allows up
to t oracle calls (we call this a t-interactive complexity assumption or tICA for
short). This is in some sense optimal as any security game with t oracle calls
could easily be proven (tautologically) secure using security assumptions that
allow t oracle calls — simply by assuming the security of the security game. We
prove the following results.
Theorem 1 (First Main Result, Informal). Let RRR be a RRR. Let ICA be
a secure tICA. Then, there is no simple2 Turing reduction that can reduce the
lunchtime security of RRR with t + 1 adaptive inversion queries to the security
of ICA.
Theorem 2 (Second Main Result, Informal). Let RRR be a strong RRR.
Let ICA be a secure tICA. Then, there is no (general) Turing reduction that,
while creating up to u attacker instances, can reduce the lunchtime security of
RRR with t + u adaptive inversion queries to the security of ICA.
One mere corollary of this result is that the number of calls to an inver-
sion oracle granted to the attacker induces a complexity hierarchy of prob-
lems.3 Transferred to semi-homomorphic PKE this says that its t-OW-CCA1
security (OW-CCA1 security when granted up to t decryption queries) can-
not be based on its (t −1)-OW-CCA1 security. For t = 1 this already separates
2 Simple reductions call the attacker only once and do not rewind.
3 For a more general discussion of both results let us for simplicity consider u = 1 in
the following.

258
S. Sch¨age
IND-CPA security from 1-OW-CCA1 security, i.e. OW-CCA1 security with only
one-time access to a decryption oracle. However, we stress that our result on
semi-homomorphic PKE is much more general than that. Since OW-CCA1 secu-
rity is weaker than IND-CCA1 security, our result shows that semi-homomorphic
PKE, and in particular ElGamal PKE, cannot be shown (t+1)-IND-CCA1 under
any tICA under simple reductions. To obtain our results we have to overcome
several challenges.
Challenge 1: Passing the Barrier towards Weaker Security Notions. We empha-
size that, in general, the security game that we examine in our main impossibility
result as depicted in Fig. 1 considers an extremely weak security notion. How-
ever, for our purpose, this is of course advantageous as our impossibility result
transfers to any security notion that is strictly stronger. Previous impossibility
results that use related techniques already considered remarkably weak security
notions. The weakest of them have in common that they formulate a so-called
one-more inversion problem, where the attacker is given t + 1 challenge state-
ments at the beginning of the security game together with subsequent t-time
access to an inversion oracle [34]. However, our security notion is even weaker
than that, and in fact, passing this barrier towards a weaker security notion
has been the main obstacle to achieving further progress. In the notion that we
consider, the attacker still has t-time access to an inversion oracle. However, the
attacker’s challenge statements are only decided on at the end of the security
game by the challenger. In particular, all queries to the inversion oracle are thus
independent of the ﬁnal statement. For this challenging case, we show how to
derive impossibility results based on the meta-reduction approach when dealing
with eﬃciently random self-reducible and re-randomizable relations.
Proof Framework. Our result is obtained using the meta-reduction technique
that was introduced by Boneh and Venkatesan [6]. The proof is by contradiction,
where we start to simply assume that an appropriate PPT reduction B exists.
According to the meta-reduction methodology, we ﬁrst specify an ideal attacker
that breaks the security game (with unbounded resources). Since the attacker A
is successful, the reduction B must be able to use it to break some complex-
ity assumption C with only a polynomial overhead in running time and an at
most polynomial loss of success probability. In the second step, we show how to
eﬃciently simulate the attacker toward the reduction. To this end, we deﬁne an
eﬃcient meta-reduction M that runs and controls the reduction algorithm. Cru-
cially, we have to show that from B’s perspective, M behaves indistinguishably
from A. This shows that the combination of B and M breaks the underlying
security assumption C eﬃciently, thus contradicting the starting assumption.
From a more abstract angle, this approach shows that the reduction, if it exists,
has already the power to break the security assumption itself.
Proof Idea. Our result holds for RRRs, relations that are random self-reducible
and re-randomizable. On a high level, we intuitively exploit that any output of
the reduction, and in particular any challenge statement, can be blinded and

New Limits of Provable Security and Applications to ElGamal Encryption
259
then relayed back to the reduction B as a query – without B noticing. More
concretely, our notion of random self-reducibility guarantees that we can generate
from any challenge statement s∗
i a derived statement s′∗
i such that, crucially, the
reduction has no way of recognizing that s′∗
i
was constructed from s∗
i . (Recall
that to transfer the following discussion to the ElGamal setting, we simply can
identify statements s with ciphertexts c and witnesses w with plaintexts m.)
Next, the meta-reduction rewinds the reduction to some earlier point in the
execution and sends s′∗
i as an inversion query to B which in turn responds with
the corresponding witness w′∗
i . Since the relation is random self-reducible, the
meta-reduction can compute from w′∗
i a challenge witness w′′∗
i
for s∗
i . However,
as w′∗
i has been computed by B, the challenge witness w′′∗
i
still might depend (in
a way recognizable by the reduction) on w′∗
i . This is where we re-randomize w′′∗
i
to obtain the ﬁnal response w∗
i to s∗
i . We perform this last step since, similarly to
before, the meta-reduction needs to make sure that the reduction is not able to
recognize that the ﬁnal output w∗
i has been computed from one of its responses.
Here we exploit the properties of the re-randomization process, which state that
for any witness pair, the output distributions of the re-randomization process
are statistically close.
Certiﬁed Relations. So far, we have described how to ensure that the reduction
cannot recognize any dependencies between the challenge statement/witness pair
and the queried pairs of the relation. However, there is another important but
rather subtle issue that we need to take care of. To closely model practice, we
have included in our security model that the challenger sends the description of
the relation to the attacker in the ﬁrst step. Intuitively this may, for example,
correspond to a public key in a cryptographic system along with the public
system parameters. To make our technique work, the attacker needs to be able
to eﬃciently verify that the so-speciﬁed relation is indeed an RRR. In practice,
there might be several ways to ensure this. Most of the relations that we give as
examples will allow to immediately verify the properties of the RRR. However, we
may also consider relations where this is not possible and where instead relation
descriptions are accompanied by appropriate (statistically or perfectly sound,
non-interactive) proofs. Furthermore, we may consider trusted third parties that
provide both parties with the relation such that the RRR properties are always
fulﬁlled. This issue is indeed very subtle and in early works on related meta-
reductions has not been addressed explicitly [26].
First Result: Exploiting RRRs. We present two main results. These results
depend on whether the attacker may eﬃciently implement an (indirect) algo-
rithm for deciding for given (s, w) if we have (s, w) ∈R or not. The ﬁrst case
assumes that no such algorithm exists. Our result for this case considers a more
general relation type but achieves a weaker impossibility result. In particular, the
impossibility result restricts the class of considered reductions considerably and
only works for what is commonly called simple reductions where the reduction
runs the attacker a single time without rewinding. Still, we believe that this rules
out a very widespread type of reduction in cryptography. However, as we show,

260
S. Sch¨age
it becomes clear that if we allow the reduction to rewind the attacker even only
once then this strategy becomes useless immediately. In a nutshell, the reason
is that the reduction can use a simple strategy to distinguish the ideal attacker
from the meta-reduction in case it can rewind the attacker, see Sect. 10.
Second Result: Exploiting Strong RRRs. In the second case, the RRR addition-
ally admits an eﬃcient algorithm called RSRTest that, given witness w, checks
whether (s, w) ∈R where, importantly, s has in turn been derived from some
given statement s∗using random coins r. We call such a relation a strong RRR.
Intuitively, this algorithm can work as a weak form of membership test for val-
ues s that have been crafted in some speciﬁc way while having access to all the
information that was used in the process of constructing s. (We stress that this
does not constitute a direct, oﬄine membership tester for R.)
Challenge 2: Dealing with Arbitrary Reductions. In contrast to before, our sec-
ond main result rules out general (non-uniform) reductions. In this setting, we
additionally have to deal with rewinding reductions that concurrently execute
several instances of the attacker. In general, this is known to considerably compli-
cate the analysis of impossibility results based on meta-reductions. And indeed,
in our proof, we have to address several technical challenges.
One of these challenges is to ensure that a rewinding reduction cannot obtain
more information from the meta-reduction than from the ideal attacker, for
example by rewinding the attacker and answering a query once again, but this
time with a distinct response. To this end, we extend recent techniques by [34]
and [30] to guarantee that the meta-reduction essentially behaves deterministi-
cally overall but independent of the concrete witnesses received as long as they
are correct.
Another challenge is to avoid exponential blow-ups in the simulation time
when dealing with rewinding reductions that execute several, u, attackers con-
currently. To this end, we utilize some of the technical tools that were developed
in [34] and which were in turn inspired by a line of research on resettable zero-
knowledge [9,10,15,35,38]. However, our strategy fundamentally deviates from
[34] and rather follows [30]. In particular, we do not describe a recursive rewind-
ing strategy to deal with reductions that execute several attackers concurrently.
Arguably, this makes our exposition more accessible since we do not have to for-
malize concepts like slots. At the same time, we obtain a result that is concrete.
More precisely, let t′ be the number of queries granted in the lunchtime inversion
game and t be the number of queries in the security game of the interactive com-
plexity assumption. Previous works like [34,41] require that the attacker makes
t′ = ω(κ + t + 1) queries for security parameter κ while requiring an upper
bound on the number of overall queries M exchanged between the reduction
and the attacker. Of course, bounding M implicitly also bounds u, the num-
ber of attacker instances created by the reduction. In contrast, our result solely
requires an upper bound on the number of instances u created by the reduction
while concretely assuming t′ = u + t. For reductions that call a single attacker
(u = 1), this gives an optimal bound t′ = t + 1, since for t′ ≤t we cannot hope

New Limits of Provable Security and Applications to ElGamal Encryption
261
to obtain a separation result from general interactive complexity assumptions
with t queries.
Challenge 3: Casting Semi-Homomorphic PKE as a Strong RRR. To rule out
general reductions via our second and main result, we also show how to cast
ElGamal PKE as a strong RRR. Essentially this translates to an attacker that
can check if the responses to inversion (decryption) queries are correct, although
statement/witness pairs are in general not eﬃciently recognizable! This task is
considerably more complicated than for mere RRRs and requires novel additional
techniques. Solving this problem for general (semi-)homomorphic PKE is one of
our main contributions.
Additional Encryption of MACed Plaintext. On a high level, we approach this
problem by deﬁning a strong RRR where statements consist of pairs of cipher-
texts and witnesses of pairs of plaintexts. It is now possible to prepare pairs
of ciphertexts such that the ﬁrst one contains some message m while the sec-
ond ciphertext contains a tag on m that is computed with a homomorphic MAC
(under some freshly drawn MAC key) featuring statistical security (implemented
as a pairwise-independent hash function). Since the MAC is homomorphic, this
can be done even if the plaintext in the ﬁrst ciphertext is unknown. Using this
approach the attacker can check whether the reduction provides correct responses
to the queries even for unknown ciphertexts. This is critical when relaying chal-
lenge statements back to the reduction in the presence of reductions that can
rewind the attacker. Our ﬁnal argument will show that when instantiating the
lunchtime security game for RRRs with this strong RRR we end up in a very
weak security game for (semi-homomorphic) PKE termed Paired OW-CCA1
that is (strictly) weaker than the OW-CCA1 security game. In particular, the
main diﬀerence is that the Paired OW-CCA1 security game is less adaptive since
pairs of ciphertexts are queried to the decryption oracle (which in turn responds
with the corresponding plaintext pairs). On the one hand, this makes our second
impossibility result more general as we rely on a weaker security game. How-
ever, relying on strong RRRs also inﬂuences our bounds for PKE quantitatively,
increasing the number of allowed decryption queries overall from t+u to 2t+2u:
Corollary 1. Let PKE be a semi-homomorphic PKE. Let ICA be a tICA. Then,
there is no (general) Turing reduction that, while creating at most u instances
of the attacker, can reduce the Paired OW-CCA1 security of PKE with 2t + 2u
decryption queries to the security of ICA.
Broad Applicability: Certiﬁed Homomorphic One-Way Bijections and Semi-
Homomorphic PKE. Our impossibility results are very general. The ﬁrst appli-
cation of our main theorems is to general semi-homomorphic PKE. This not only
includes ElGamal PKE, but also the well-known public-key encryption system
by Paillier and its generalization by Damg˚ard–Jurik. To underline the broad
applicability of our results further, we single out another practically important
application that relies on certiﬁed homomorphic one-way bijections (CHOWB)

262
S. Sch¨age
like discrete exponentiation or the RSA permutation. It is not hard to show
that these functions immediately give rise to suitable strong RRRs and our
result applies. Since CHOWBs are so common in (asymmetric) cryptography,
our result has a plethora of interesting applications (for example in the realm of
one-more inversion assumptions, here improving on some existing impossibility
results).
Scope and Interpretation. Our work provides fundamental impossibility results
in the standard model under a very liberal notion of reduction where the only
restrictions are i) that the reduction treats ineﬃcient attackers in a black-box
way (Turing reduction) and ii) that the number of queries allowed in the secu-
rity assumption is strictly less than the number of queries in the security game.
The latter condition seems necessary to rule out tautological results. The former
condition states that our result does not exclude reductions that depend on the
attacker. However we stress that, although there has been considerable progress
in recent years, it seems that current techniques for general non-black box reduc-
tions are still not able to tackle this problem without major breakthroughs. At
the same time, we note that there are several arguments for considering reduc-
tions that use attackers in a black-box sense as more natural — and in the context
of security reductions even semantically more meaningful. One such argument
that was for example invoked by Pass [34] is that such reductions will also work
against attackers where parts of it are hard to be transformed into an explicit
formal description, for example, if they consist of combinations of algorithms
and humans. We emphasize that our result captures constructions that can rely
on the underlying building block in a non-black-box manner (in contrast to,
for example, most oracle separation techniques and idealized models like generic
groups). Moreover, the reduction may also use the security assumptions in a non-
black-box way. The only requirement that we have is that the reduction treats
the attacker as black-box. In terms of the ﬁne-grained hierarchy developed in [3],
a reﬁned version of [37], this corresponds to a so-called NBN reduction. We also
emphasize that, as [3] have pointed out, if we only consider eﬃcient attackers
then knowledge of the code of the adversary does not lend additional power to
the reduction (i.e. NBNa-type reductions exist iﬀNNNa-type do). So our result
in fact only requires that ineﬃcient attackers are treated in a black-box way by
the reduction. This gives a somewhat complete picture since it is well-known that
ElGamal can be proven CCA1 secure under some non-interactive assumption in
idealized models like the algebraic group model (AGM) where the reduction also
has access to the attacker’s internal representation of group elements as shown
in [22]. (In the AGM, essentially all algorithms are assumed to (i) create new
group elements X only via the application of the group operation to some ﬁxed
base B of group elements and (ii) always also output the internal representation
of X with respect to B.) We note that in [22], the power to access the internal
representation of the attacker speciﬁcally seems to be the main leverage towards
obtaining a security proof. Requiring access to the internal representation of the
reduction only in contrast yields an impossibility result under non-interactive
security assumptions (for ElGamal KEM) [24].

New Limits of Provable Security and Applications to ElGamal Encryption
263
Take-Home Message on ElGamal PKE. Conceptually, our arguments heavily
exploit the random self-reducibility of ciphertexts in ElGamal PKE. In a sense,
random self-reducibility can be viewed as a form of perfect malleability. In fact,
it is so strong that no party, including the reduction, is able to recognize the
original ciphertext given the derived one. Thus, one way to view our results on
ElGamal is that:
While the malleability of the ciphertexts shows that ElGamal PKE is not IND-
CCA2 secure, its “perfect” malleability shows its lack of provable IND-CCA1
security.
2
Related Work and Overview
ElGamal PKE [19] has been invented in 1984 and can be regarded as a non-
interactive twist of the famous 1976 Diﬃe–Hellman protocol [16], where one
of the exchanged public keys is made static. In particular, it is the ﬁrst PKE
scheme based on discrete-logarithm-type assumptions. Since then, many results
have used or extended this scheme. Some important milestone results are the
Cramer–Shoup encryption scheme that can be proven IND-CCA secure in the
standard model [13], and the Boneh–Franklin scheme, the ﬁrst identity-based
encryption system in bilinear groups [5]. Meta-reductions have been introduced
by Boneh and Venkatesan [6] in 1998 and since then have proven a ﬂexible and
powerful technique for deriving strong impossibility results besides oracle sepa-
ration. In the standard model, previous works have used meta-reductions mostly
to derive impossibility or eﬃciency results for concrete primitives like signatures
schemes [4,17,18,20,21,23,32,39], and encryption systems [33]. Starting with
the seminal work of Coron [12], many recent works like [2,25,26,30] use meta-
reductions to prove bounds on the (non-exponential) security loss of crypto-
graphic constructions for one-more-forgery type problems. Other results like [7,8]
use meta-reductions to derive relationships among cryptographic one-more type
problems. Probably closest to ours is the seminal work of Pass that showed a
very general impossibility result on one-more inversion problems [34] with unique
witnesses. As mentioned before, one of our main novelties is that by focusing on
RRRs and a new simulation approach, we can provide results for a much weaker
security notion that could not be covered by the previous techniques. In this way,
our result is somewhat incomparable to [34] as it at the same time increases and
decreases in generality albeit in distinct directions (since our security games
are weaker but we have more restrictions on the relations by requiring them
to be random self-reducible as well). Besides the already mentioned diﬀerences,
our result provides several technical improvements that have not been considered
in [34], like the broad treatment of re-randomizable relations via new and general
notions. Finally, we point out that [34] does only hold for recognizable relations.
Intuitively, this means that it requires the existence of Strong RRRs with explicit
membership tests, to begin with. This makes it in general impossible to apply it
to classical encryption-type deﬁnitions for probabilistic encryption where chal-
lenges correspond to ciphertexts and witnesses to plaintexts since the ability to

264
S. Sch¨age
recognize valid ciphertext/plaintext pairs could easily be used to simply break
(even) IND-CPA security. Two papers have speciﬁcally worked on the impossi-
bility of proving ElGamal PKE IND-CCA1 secure [29,40]. However, they both
relate tICAs to ElGamal with t decryption queries. As stated, this may allow
for tautological results:
– The result in [29] relates ElGamal PKE to DDH/CDH type assumptions.
It shows a reduction from the security of ElGamal PKE with t decryption
queries to a tICA. And indeed, the author himself regards this as a “tautol-
ogy”, “which is mainly useful to simplify further results”.
– Similarly to this, [40] relates the OW-CCA1 security of ElGamal PKE with t
decryption queries to a tICA called DTCDHA (or a combination of a weaker
tICA called DTDLA and a knowledge type assumption).
Finally, we stress that the meta-reduction framework has recently been
extended in several directions. These extensions are typically quite generic
such that they can often be applied to many works that use a similar meta-
reduction technique. Some important stepping stones are the extension of the
meta-reduction framework to rule out so-called memory-tight reduction as ini-
tiated in [1], or the application of the meta-reduction technique to non-uniform
reductions [11].
3
Preliminaries
Relations. We use κ to denote the security parameter. Let S and W be sets and
assume that there are eﬃcient membership tests to check whether s ∈S and
w ∈W. We call S the set of statements and W the set of witnesses. Assume
we have a relation R ⊆S × W. For any s ∈S let Ws := {w|(s, w) ∈R} ⊆W
be the witness set of s. Furthermore, we say that s ∈S has t ∈N witnesses if
|Ws| = t. If for a relation R we have that any statement s ∈S has at least one
witness, we call it total. For simplicity, we will in the following only be interested
in total relations. Moreover, we say that a relation is unique if for all statements
s we have |Ws| ≤1. We will use [1; ℓ] for ℓ∈N to denote the set of natural
numbers 1, . . . , ℓand [ℓ] as a shorthand for [1; ℓ]. In the following, we will always
be interested in relations with superpolynomial statement set |S|.
Algorithms for Relations. We use y = A(x; r) to denote a deterministic algo-
rithm A that takes as input x and randomness r (for r ∈D = {0, 1}d with
some polynomial d = d(κ)) to compute output y. Equally, we may make the
random coins implicit, view A as a probabilistic algorithm, and simply write
y ←A(x) assuming that A is provided with uniformly random r ∈D. In the
following, we will for simplicity assume that every randomized algorithm uses
random coins in D = {0, 1}d for some appropriate polynomial d unless speciﬁed
explicitly otherwise. If A is an algorithm and (a1, . . . , aℓ) ←A(x) for ℓ∈N we
use [A(x)]i for i ∈[ℓ] to denote the ith output ai. Similarly, we use [A(x)][i;j] to
denote the projection of the output of A(x) on the coordinates i up to j. In the

New Limits of Provable Security and Applications to ElGamal Encryption
265
same way, we use [B]i for any tuple B = (b1, . . . , bℓ) to denote the projection on
the ith component bi and [B][i;j] for the projection (bi, . . . , bj) on components i
to j. In case s ∈Sk and w ∈W k are tuples, we more generally write (s, w) ∈R
to denote that for all i ∈[k] it holds that ([s]i, [w]i) ∈R. If D is a set we use
r ←D to denote that r is drawn uniformly at random from D. Let X be some
random variable that is drawn according to some discrete distribution D′ over
some set. We use H∞(X) = k if maxx Pr[X = x] = 2−k. In this case we also say
that distribution D has min-entropy H∞(X) = k.
Reductions. Let us now explain what type of reductions we consider. We mainly
follow [34] here. For an alternative, more general, and very formal treatment we
refer to [3] where the reductions that we focus on are called NBN reductions.
Commonly, these types of reductions are simply called Turing reductions. In
a nutshell, a black-box reduction for basing the security of a primitive X on
the hardness of a primitive Y , is a probabilistic polynomial-time oracle machine
B such that BA “breaks” Y , whenever the oracle A (the attacker) “breaks”
X. Typically a successful break is deﬁned in a security game played between
a challenger and an attacker with precise conditions under which the attacker
wins. When the oracles are interactive, we only consider deterministic attacker
oracles that may be given random coins as ﬁrst input. If B gives the oracle A
fresh random coins at the beginning of the security game, we also say that the
reduction has created an instance (of A). Having explicit random coins given to a
deterministic oracle allows general reductions to restart and “rewind” its oracle.
Simple reductions, however, can only send these initial random coins to the
oracle once. To model probabilistic reductions we assume that each reduction is
given access to random coins rB ∈DB. In this work, we concentrate on uniform
algorithms and in particular uniform reductions. In the full version, we sketch
how our result could be transferred to non-uniform algorithms.
Success Probability after Rewinding. In our proofs we will make use of the well-
known Splitting Lemma, see for example [36].
Lemma 1 (Splitting Lemma). Let U and V be ﬁnite sets. Call G ⊆U ×
V the set of good elements. For any element (u, v) ∈U × V we deﬁne ku =
|{(u, v′) | (u, v′) ∈G}|, i.e. ku is the number of v′ ∈V such that (u, v′) is
good. Suppose there is a lower bound on the number of good elements such that
|G| ≥ϵ |U × V |. Deﬁne the set of super-good elements G′ as a subset of G with
G′ = {(u, v) ∈G | ku ≥ϵ/2 |V |}. Then it holds that
|G′| ≥ϵ/2 |U × V |.
4
Notions for PKE and CHOWBs
In this section, we formally introduce semi-homomorphic public-key encryption.
We will later use the well-known notion of OW-CCA1 in a corollary of our ﬁrst

266
S. Sch¨age
main result. A further, even weaker notion is called Paired OW-CCA1 secu-
rity. According to this notion pairs of ciphertexts are sent to the challenger for
decryption. Each time, the challenger responds with the corresponding pair of
plaintexts. (Likewise, in the ﬁnal phase, the challenger sends a pair of chal-
lenge ciphertexts to the attacker which in turn responds with the corresponding
plaintext pair.) Paired OW-CCA1 can later be used when applying our second
main result (Sect. 10) to semi-homomorphic PKE. (A formal deﬁnition of Paired
OW-CCA1 can be found in the full version.)
4.1
Public-Key Encryption
A public-key encryption (PKE) system PKE = (PKEKGen, PKEEnc, PKEDec)
consists of three algorithms.
1. PKEKGen(1κ): the probabilistic key generator PKEKGen takes as input the
security parameter in unary and outputs an asymmetric key pair with public
key pk ∈PK and secret key sk ∈SK.
2. PKEEnc(pk, m): the probabilistic encryption algorithm takes as input the
public key pk ∈PK and a message m from some message space M and
outputs some ciphertext c in the ciphertext space C.
3. PKEDec(sk, c): the deterministic decryption algorithm takes as input the
secret key sk ∈SK and a ciphertext c. It either outputs a message m ∈M if
c ∈C or a dedicated error symbol ⊥if c /∈C.
We say that PKE is perfectly correct if for all (pk, sk) ←PKEKGen(1κ) we
have for all m ∈M that Pr[PKEDec(sk, PKEEnc(pk, m)) = m] = 1. In the
following, we will only be interested in perfectly correct PKE systems. We call a
PKE system certiﬁed if i) there is an eﬃcient algorithm that can check whether
indeed pk ∈PK and ii) it holds that [PKEKGen(1κ)]1 = PK, meaning that the
set of public keys output by the key generator is eﬃciently recognizable.
4.2
Semi-Homomorphic PKE
We will particularly be interested in (semi-)homomorphic PKE. We say that
PKE = (PKEKGen, PKEEnc, PKEDec) is homomorphic if the following several
properties are fulﬁlled:
1. For all κ and all (pk, sk) ←PKEKGen(1κ) it is possible to deﬁne (ﬁnite, cyclic)
groups (G, +) and (H, ·) such that the set G is equal to the plaintext space
M and H is equal to the ciphertext space C. We require that membership in
G and H can be eﬃciently tested.
2. |G| grows exponentially in the security parameter.
3. There is an eﬃcient algorithm that can draw t ∈N uniformly from t ←[|G|]
with only statistically small error probability.

New Limits of Provable Security and Applications to ElGamal Encryption
267
4. For any m, m′ ∈G and any scalar t ∈[|G|] it holds that
PKEDec(sk,
t
i=1
PKEEnc(pk, m) · PKEEnc(pk, m′)) =
t

i=1
m + m′
= tm + m′.
5. We have that C = PKEEnc(pk, M; D), that is, for every pk and each ciphertext
c in the ciphertext space there exists message m and randomness r such that
c = PKEEnc(pk, m; r).
6. For uniformly random message m ∈M and uniformly random r ∈D, we have
that PKEEnc(pk, m; r) is distributed like a uniformly sampled ciphertext.
Property 3 allows us to not only model groups G of known order where we can
directly draw t ←[|G|] but also groups of unknown order like RSA (or Paillier)
setups where randomly drawing from [(N −1)/4] is statistically close to drawing
from [φ(N)].
It is well-known that ElGamal PKE is a semi-homomorphic PKE. However, in
the cryptographic literature, we can ﬁnd several other well-known PKE systems
that fulﬁll our deﬁnition of homomorphic PKE. Among them, there is the well-
known PKE by Paillier [31] and its generalization by Damg˚ard–Jurik [14]. For
brevity, we refer to the original papers for the description of the other schemes.
These works also show that all required properties are fulﬁlled if the public keys
are set up as deﬁned in the scheme’s description. For these cryptosystems, it is
also relatively easy to actually provide cryptographic proofs cert showing that
the key material has been set up as given in the description. Such a proof can
thus ultimately guarantee that all the above properties are fulﬁlled. For example,
for Paillier encryption such a corresponding proof simply boils down to proving
that gcd(N, φ(N)) = 1 as shown in [28]. If such a proof can be computed and
veriﬁed eﬃciently, we call the PKE scheme certiﬁed. It is important to stress that,
since we require that plaintexts and ciphertexts are eﬃciently recognizable, our
deﬁnition excludes PKE systems like the Cramer–Shoup scheme [13] or its IND-
CCA1-secure lite version where real ciphertexts (gr
1, gr
2, . . .) are indistinguishable
from “malformed” ciphertexts (gr
1, gr′
2 , . . .) for r′ ̸= r that the reduction can
produce. Another interpretation of this condition is that we require that the
validity of ciphertexts can be publicly veriﬁed.
4.3
Certiﬁed Homomorphic One-Way Bijections
For each κ let F be a family of eﬃciently sampleable homomorphic one-way
bijections such that |F| grows exponentially in security parameter κ. We assume
that the input and output space of each f ∈F is eﬃciently sampleable. More-
over, we assume that all the functions in F are certiﬁed so that there exists
an eﬃcient algorithm which given some f outputs 1 if f ∈F and 0 otherwise.
We assume that each f ∈F maps elements from ﬁnite group (A, ⊕) to group
(B = range(f), ⊙) of the same order. We thus have f(x⊕y) = f(x)⊙f(y) for all
x, y ∈A. We assume that all group operations are eﬃcient. Finally, let us also

268
S. Sch¨age
assume that the evaluation of f is eﬃcient for all f ∈F. We will now consider
a security notion in which the attacker makes a polynomial number, t = t(κ), of
inversion queries before it has to compute the pre-images of p challenge outputs.
1. The challenger draws f ∈F and sends f to the attacker A.
2. The attacker A may query up to t inversion queries to C. Each query yi
consists of a value in the image of f.
3. The challenger C responds to each such query with input xi such that yi =
f(xi). If i = t, the challenger additionally sends random outputs ˆy∗
1, . . . , ˆy∗
p
to A.
4. A responds with the corresponding inputs x∗
1, . . . , x∗
p.
The attacker wins and breaks the security of F if the probability that for all i ∈
[p] we have y∗
i = f(x∗
i ) is non-negligible. There are many well-known examples
of CHOWBs in cryptography like the discrete exponentiation function or the
(certiﬁed) RSA permutation. The above security notion formalizes a form of
adaptive security for CHOWBs that is a very weak variant of a so-called one-
more assumption where the challenge is given to the attacker only at the end of
the security game.
5
Random Self-Reducible and Re-Randomizable
Relations (RRRs)
In the following, we will deﬁne the class of relations that we are interested
in. To this end, we formally specify several algorithms that work with some
total relation R. After that, we will provide some detailed intuition for these
algorithms and how we make use of them later. Additional intuition will be
provided via the concrete examples of RRRs in Sect. 6.
5.1
Algorithms
To formally capture the intuition behind RRRs, we introduce the notion of
RRR systems that comprise several eﬃcient algorithms RRR = (RGen, RSample,
RSubSample, ReRand, ReCheck, RSRStatement, RSRWitness, RVerify). We param-
eterize our notion by some integer k which we call the fan-out of RRR. We will
in the following assume that k = 1 unless explicitly speciﬁed otherwise. We also
introduce the notion of strong RRR systems that have an additional eﬃcient
algorithm RSRTest: RRR′ = (RGen, RSample, RSubSample, ReRand, ReCheck,
RSRStatement, RSRWitness, RSRTest, RVerify).
– RGen(1κ): The probabilistic relation generator RGen takes as input the secu-
rity parameter κ and outputs the description of a relation R ⊆S × W along
with a proof cert ∈U. For simplicity, we assume that R implicitly also spec-
iﬁes the spaces S, W, U, and S′ ⊆S with superpolynomial |S′|.
– RSample(R): The probabilistic sampler RSample outputs (s, w) ∈S × W for
uniformly random s ∈S.

New Limits of Provable Security and Applications to ElGamal Encryption
269
– RSubSample(R): The probabilistic sub-sampler RSubSample outputs (s′, w) ∈
R, where s′ ∈S′ is drawn according to some distribution X with min-entropy
H∞(X) ≥κ.
– ReRand(R, s, w): The probabilistic re-randomizer ReRand is given relation R
and (s, w) ∈R. It outputs a new witness w′ ∈W.
– ReCheck(R, s, w, w′): The deterministic checker ReCheck is given relation R,
(s, w) ∈R, and w′ ∈W as input. It outputs a bit c indicating whether
(s, w′) ∈R.
– RSRStatement(R, s∗; r): The statement transformer RSRStatement is given as
input relation R, a statement s∗∈S, and random coins r. The output is a
vector of statements, s ∈S′k for k ∈N, and the state st = (s∗, r) ∈S×{0, 1}∗.
We also say that s is the transformed statement of s∗(and r).
– RSRWitness(R, w, st): The deterministic derivation algorithm RSRWitness is
given R, witness vector w ∈W k, and state st = (s∗, r) ∈S × {0, 1}∗. It
outputs a new witness w∗∈W. We also call w∗the derivation of w.
– RSRTest(R, w, k′, st): The deterministic tester RSRTest is given R, a single
witness w ∈W, an index k′ ∈[k], and a state st = (s∗, r) ∈S × {0, 1}∗. The
output is a bit t indicating whether the k′th component of the transformed
statement of s∗and r has witness w.
– RVerify(R, cert): The deterministic veriﬁer RVerify is given as input the
description R and proof cert ∈U. The output is a bit v indicating whether
the proof is correct.
If R is clear from the context, we might omit R as an input in our notation. If
we do not specify an explicit value for cert, we implicitly assume that cert = ⊥
is set. Also, if k = 1 for some concrete RRR we may use RSRTest(R, w, st) short
for RSRTest(R, w, 1, st).
Properties of R. Let us now, for some given relation R, deﬁne several properties
that we might require from the algorithms of a (strong) RRR system.
P-1: Correctness of RSample:
∀r ∈D : RSample(R; r) ∈R.
P-2: Correctness of RSubSample:
∀r ∈D : RSubSample(R; r) ∈R.
P-3: Correctness of ReRand:
∀(s, w) ∈S × W, r ∈D : (s, w) ∈R ⇒(s, ReRand(R, s, w; r)) ∈R.
P-4: Witness indistinguishability of ReRand:
∀s ∈S, w, w′, w′′ ∈Ws :
Pr[w′′ = ReRand(R, s, w)] = Pr[w′′ = ReRand(R, s, w′)].

270
S. Sch¨age
P-5: Correctness and soundness of ReCheck:
∀(s, w) ∈R, w′ ∈W : ReCheck(R, s, w, w′) = 1 ⇔(s, w′) ∈R.
P-6: Correctness of (RSRStatement, RSRWitness):
∀s∗∈S, r ∈D, w ∈W k :
([RSRStatement(R, s∗; r)][k], w) ∈R
⇒RSRWitness(R, w, [RSRStatement(R, s∗; r)]k+1) ∈Ws∗.
P-7: Statement indistinguishability of RSRStatement:
∀s∗, s′ ∈S :
[RSRStatement(R, s∗)][k] ≈s [RSRStatement(R, s′)][k].
P-8: Indistinguishable sampleability of RSubSample:
∀s∗∈S, i ∈[k] : [RSubSample(R)]1 ≈s [RSRStatement(R, s∗)]i.
P-9: Statistical correctness and soundness of (RSRStatement, RSRTest):
∀s∗∈S, w ∈W, k′ ∈[k]
Pr[(RSRStatement(R, s∗; r)]k′, w) ∈R]
≈s Pr[RSRTest(R, w, k′, [RSRStatement(R, s∗; r)]k+1) = 1],
where the probability is over r ←D.
Let us ﬁnally deﬁne what a certiﬁed (strong) RRR system is.
Deﬁnition 1. Let RRR be an RRR system. We say that RRR is a certiﬁed RRR
system if properties P-10 to P-11 are fulﬁlled where:
P-10: Correctness of RGen:
∀r ∈D : RGen(1κ; r) = (R, cert) ⇒P-1 to P-8 are fulﬁlled on input R.
P-11: Soundness of RVerify:
∀R ⊆S × W, cert ∈U : RVerify(R, cert) = 1 ⇔P-1 to P-8 hold on input R.
Certiﬁed RRR systems will be utilized in our ﬁrst result. In our second result,
we need certiﬁed strong RRRs.
Deﬁnition 2. Let RRR′ be an RRR system. We say that RRR′ is a certiﬁed
strong RRR system if properties P-12 to P-13 are fulﬁlled where:
P-12: Correctness of RGen:
∀r ∈D : RGen(1κ; r) = (R, cert) ⇒P-1 to P-9 are fulﬁlled on input R.
P-13: Soundness of RVerify:
∀R ⊆S × W, cert ∈U : RVerify(R, cert) = 1 ⇔P-1 to P-9 hold on input R.

New Limits of Provable Security and Applications to ElGamal Encryption
271
Intuition. Let us provide some intuition for these algorithms and the properties
that we require. The pair of algorithms RGen and RVerify, along with properties
P-10 and P-11 (respectively P-12 and P-13) are used to capture that we can
test if a given relation R is indeed a (strong) RRR. To this end, we have that
RGen may output a corresponding proof cert alongside R that can be veriﬁed by
RVerify. We remark that this notion also captures situations where a dedicated
proof is not necessary, such that the veriﬁer can be convinced by performing some
eﬃcient computations on R. An example that will also underlie our analysis of
ElGamal is when R speciﬁes a generator g of a cyclic group that has prime order
p. We assume that in these cases cert is set to cert = ⊥.
Our notion of re-randomizability of witnesses is captured via ReRand,
ReCheck, and P-4 to P-5. ReRand outputs when given (s, w) ∈R a new witness
˜w ∈Ws. At the same time, we guarantee a strong form of witness indistin-
guishability by requiring that the output distributions of ReRand(R, s, w) and
ReRand(R, s, w′), for any s and w, w′ ∈Ws, are equal. Finally, we have that the
algorithm ReCheck can recognize, given arbitrary (s, w) ∈R, if a new witness
w′ is also in Ws. As mentioned before, if R has unique witnesses the algorithm
is trivial: it simply outputs 1 iﬀw′ = w. In this case, we also say that the
re-randomization of R is trivial. To capture random self-reducibility we make
use of RSRStatement, RSRWitness along with P-6 and P-7. To model strong
RRRs we also exploit RSRTest and require that P-9 is fulﬁlled. The algorithm
RSRStatement simply constructs from statement s∗a derived vector of state-
ments s. Similar to before, we have that the output of this algorithm does not
reveal the input value s∗, capturing a strong form of statement indistinguisha-
bility. Moreover, we require that whenever we indeed obtain a witness w for s,
we can use that to compute a witness w∗for the original statement s∗.
Finally, for strong RRRs, we require that we have a weak membership test
via RSRTest for derived s and arbitrary w. However, it requires as input the
state st, which has been used to construct s from s∗. In contrast to RSRWitness
that only works on a full vector w′ ∈W k, we can run RSRTest with a single
component w ∈W indexed by k′. Observe that nevertheless both algorithms
are fed with the same state. In this way, we can use RSRTest to stepwisely test
whether the components of w′ ∈W k are correct in the sense that a full vector
w′ can later indeed be used by RSRWitness to output witness w∗. We stress that
property P-9 must hold for all possible witnesses w, including those that could
be computed from the transformed statement RSRStatement(R, s∗; r). For most
relations that we detail below, we have k = 1. However, for our ﬁnal analysis of
semi-homomorphic PKE, and in particular ElGamal PKE, we have that k = 2
(intuitively indicating that statements consist of pairs of ciphertexts).
Finally, we introduce two sampling algorithms RSample and RSubSample.
The ﬁrst is used to generate relation pairs (s, w) ∈R. The second is used to
generate a new pair (s′, w′) ∈S′ × W such that (s′, w′) ∈R. Importantly, the
output distribution of this algorithm should be statistically close to that of the
ﬁrst k components of RSRStatement as encoded in P-8. So, using RSubSample
we can output k distinct values that are distributed statistically close to the

272
S. Sch¨age
statements that are output by RSRStatement. At the same time, the output
s of RSubSample should have high min-entropy. This guarantees that we can
generate hard instances of statements s such that it is diﬃcult to compute w
with (s, w) ∈R at all. In the algorithms that we consider we usually have that
RSubSample(R) simply does the same as RSample(R) and we have that S′ = S.
In our security proof, the attacker will use RSubSample to generate pairs of the
relation while the reduction may use either RSubSample or RSample to create
statements.
6
Important RRRs
In the following, we will provide an important example of an RRR that is based
on semi-homomorphic PKE. In the full version, we also show how we can easily
obtain a strong RRR RRRF from certiﬁed homomorphic one-way bijections when
statement/witness pairs correspond to output/input pairs. We emphasize that
all these RRRs are not built from concrete algebraic setups, like RSA groups,
but from entire classes of building blocks ultimately leading to very broad impos-
sibility results.
6.1
RRRs from Semi-Homomorphic PKE
Let us now present an RRR, denoted RRRHomPKE, that is derived from a semi-
homomorphic PKE system PKE with associated groups G = M and H = C.
Intuitively, the statements correspond to ciphertexts while the witnesses are
plaintexts. For simplicity, we assume that for each pk, PKE is certiﬁed via some
cert, to begin with. To prove that all properties of RRRs are fulﬁlled, we exploit
perfect correctness of the PKE such that for every ciphertext we have a unique
plaintext.
– RGen(1κ) calls PKEKGen(1κ) to obtain secret key sk and public key pk. This
speciﬁes the relation of ciphertext/plaintext pairs.
RHomPKE = {( s, w = PKEDec(sk, s) )}
= {( PKEEnc(pk, w; r), w )}r∈D ⊆C × M.
We have S = S′ = C and W = M. The output is RHomPKE, i.e. pk, and cert.
– RSample(RHomPKE) draws randomness r ∈D and random w ∈M and out-
puts
(s, w) = ( PKEEnc(pk, w; r), w ).
– RSubSample(RHomPKE) simply outputs (s, w) ←RSample(RHomPKE).
– ReRand(s, w) outputs w.
– ReCheck(s, w, w′) outputs 1 iﬀw′ = w.
– RSRStatement(s∗; r) draws uniformly random m ∈M and randomness r′ ∈D
to output
(s, st) = ( (s∗· PKEEnc(pk, m; r′)) , (s∗, r′, m) ) .

New Limits of Provable Security and Applications to ElGamal Encryption
273
– RSRWitness(w, st) parses st = (s∗, r′, m) and outputs w∗= w + (−m) where
−m is the inverse of m.
– RVerify(pk, cert) outputs 1 iﬀcert is a valid certiﬁcate for PKE.
Lemma 2. RRRHomPKE is a certiﬁed RRR.
Proof. Observe that all algorithms are eﬃcient, and due to perfect correctness for
every statement there is a unique witness if RHomPKE is certiﬁed. This makes
re-randomization trivial. At the same time, RVerify perfectly tests whether a
purported output of RGen is correct since PKE is certiﬁed. Finally, RSRStatement
statistically hides s∗while RSRWitness perfectly recovers w∗. Since the output s
of RSRStatement is uniformly random it is perfectly distributed like the output
of RSubSample.
⊓⊔
6.2
Strong RRRs from Semi-Homomorphic PKE
Let us now present an RRR, denoted RRR2HomPKE, that is derived from a semi-
homomorphic PKE system PKE. This transformation is one of our main contri-
butions as it allows a proof under arbitrary reductions in the ﬁrst place later on.
We believe that the technique can be useful in many other contexts of cryptog-
raphy as well. Intuitively, the statements now correspond to pairs of ciphertexts
while the witnesses are pairs of plaintexts. Again, we assume that the PKE is cer-
tiﬁed. Moreover, we now rely on the fact that the group of plaintexts |G| = |M|
has exponential size in the security parameter.
Before we begin, let us brieﬂy provide some intuition for the novel techniques
that we use to implement an online membership test. To provide some context,
the technical challenge is to provide a technique such that the attacker can be
sure that the reduction’s responses are correct. At the most critical part of the
proof, we need this to hold even if the attacker does not know the plaintext
of one of the ciphertexts. The main idea is as follows: we make the attacker
encrypt a message in the ﬁrst ciphertext and the MAC tag of that message
in the second one. The MAC is homomorphic and implemented via a two-wise
independent hash function. Moreover, the MAC is a one-time MAC and its key
material u ∈[|G|], w′ ∈G is freshly drawn with each query. This gives statisti-
cal security. Crucially, exploiting the homomorphic properties, the attacker can
use this technique to create from a given ciphertext s′∗encrypting w′∗a new
ciphertext that encrypts the tag uw′∗+ w′ without knowledge of w′∗. Of course,
these two ciphertexts can also be blinded and, after rewinding, be sent to the
reduction as a single query (recall that we are considering pairs of ciphertexts
as statements). The other ciphertext in the challenge is treated in the same way.
For each challenge ciphertext, the attacker so generates two ciphertexts, one for
the blinded ciphertext and one for the MAC of this value, to extract a single
challenge plaintext. We thus have fan-out k = 2.

274
S. Sch¨age
– RGen(1κ) calls PKEKGen(1κ) to obtain secret key sk and public key pk. This
speciﬁes the relation of ciphertext/plaintext pairs:
R2HomPKE,sk = {( (s′, s′′), (PKEDec(sk, s′), PKEDec(sk, s′′)) )}
= {( s, w )} ⊆C2 × M2
with s = (s′, s′′) and w = (PKEDec(sk, s′), PKEDec(sk, s′′)). We have S =
S′ = C2 and W = M2.
– RSample(R2HomPKE,sk) draws randomness r′, r′′ ∈D and random w′, w′′ ∈M
and outputs
((s′, s′′), (w′, w′′))
where
s′ ←PKEEnc(pk, w′; r′) and s′′ ←PKEEnc(pk, w′′; r′′).
We set r = (r′, r′′) to denote the overall randomness and w = (w′, w′′) for
the witness.
– RSubSample(R2HomPKE,x) simply outputs (s, w) ←RSample(R2HomPKE,x).
– ReRand(s, w) outputs w.
– ReCheck(s, w, w′) outputs 1 iﬀw′ = w.
– RSRStatement(s∗; r) takes as input a pair of ciphertexts s∗= (s′∗, s′′∗). From
that it generates four ciphertexts that are organized as pairs ˆs = (ˆs′, ˆs′′) and
˜s = (˜s′, ˜s′′) along with some state information. First, the algorithm draws
randomness ˆr′ and random witness ˆw′ and blinds4 the ciphertext s′∗to
ˆs′ = s′∗· PKEEnc(pk, ˆw′; ˆr′).
Next, we draw randomness ˆr′′ and random witness ˆw′′ as well as random
scalar ˆu ←[|G|] (or statistically close to that as required by our deﬁnition
of semi-homomorphic PKE). The pair ˆu and ˆw′′ correspond to a key of a
statistically secure, homomorphic MAC that is implemented with a pairwise
independent hash function. Then, we compute the encrypted MAC by setting
ˆs′′ =
ˆu

i=1
(ˆs′∗) · PKEEnc(pk, ˆw′′; ˆr′′) = (ˆs′∗)ˆu · PKEEnc(pk, ˆw′′; ˆr′′)
using standard multiplicative notation. We proceed similarly for the second
pair of ciphertexts and obtain
˜s′ = s′′∗· PKEEnc(pk, ˜w′; ˜r′)
and
˜s′′ =
˜u

i=1
(˜s′∗) · PKEEnc(pk, ˜w′′; ˜r′′) = (˜s′∗)˜u · PKEEnc(pk, ˜w′′; ˜r′′).
The output is s = (ˆs, ˜s), where ˆs = (ˆs′, ˆs′′) and ˜s = (˜s′, ˜s′′), and the state
consists of s∗and all the random values drawn throughout the game, i.e.,
st = (s∗, ( ˆw′, ˆr′, ˆw′′, ˆr′′, ˆu), ( ˜w′, ˜r′, ˜w′′, ˜r′′, ˜u)).
4 This perfectly hides s′∗.

New Limits of Provable Security and Applications to ElGamal Encryption
275
– RSRTest(w, k′, st) parses w as w = ( ˆw, ˜w) with ˆw = ( ˆw1, ˆw2) and ˜w = ( ˜w1, ˜w2)
and the state st as st = (s∗, ( ˆw′, ˆr′, ˆw′′, ˆr′′, ˆu), ( ˜w′, ˜r′, ˜w′′, ˜r′′, ˜u)). The algo-
rithm ﬁrst recomputes s = (ˆs, ˜s) using RSRStatement where ˆs = (ˆs′, ˆs′′) and
˜s = (˜s′, ˜s′′). Next, the algorithm essentially veriﬁes the MACs on the plain-
texts received, depending on k′ ∈{1, 2}. If k′ = 1 the algorithm checks if
ˆu

i=1
ˆw1 + ˆw′′ = ˆu ˆw1 + ˆw′′ = ˆw2
using standard additive notation. If k′ = 2 the algorithm checks if
˜u

i=1
˜w1 + ˜w′′ = ˜u ˜w1 + ˜w′′ = ˜w2.
On failure, it outputs 0. On success, it outputs 1.
– RSRWitness(w, st) parses st = (s∗, ( ˆw′, ˆr′, ˆw′′, ˆr′′, ˆu), ( ˜w′, ˜r′, ˜w′′, ˜r′′, ˜u)) and
w = ( ˆw, ˜w) with ˆw = ( ˆw1, ˆw2) and ˜w = ( ˜w1, ˜w2). It computes w′∗=
ˆw1 + (−ˆw′) where −ˆw′ is the inverse of ˆw′ and w′′∗= ˜w1 + (−˜w′). This
undoes the blinding in the plaintext space. The output is w∗= (w′∗, w′′∗).
– RVerify(u) outputs 1 iﬀthe key is certiﬁed.
Lemma 3. RRR2HomPKE is a strong certiﬁed RRR.
Due to space limitations, the proof of Lemma 3 is given in the full version.
7
A New Weak Security Notion for Relations
Let us now formalize the main security notion that we will consider in this work (as
depicted in Fig. 1). In the rest of the paper, we always assume that t, p are polyno-
mials in the security parameter unless speciﬁed otherwise. We state the security
game using some of the syntax of certiﬁed RRRs. However, we stress that the secu-
rity game is very general and stating it does not require the existence of most of
the algorithms that are associated to RRR systems. However, our main results
will only apply if we indeed have access to all the algorithms of RRR systems.
Security Game: Lunchtime Inversion with t Adaptive Queries. The central secu-
rity notion that we consider for t ∈N, t ≥1 is very simple. It is formalized as a
game played between two algorithms, a challenger C and attacker A.
1. The challenger C calls (R, cert) ←RGen(1κ). The output is sent to A.
2. The parties repeat the following steps for all i ∈[1; t].
2.i.1 The attacker A outputs statement si ∈S.
2.i.2 The challenger C responds with uniformly random witness wi ∈Wsi
such that (si, wi) ∈R. If i = t the challenger also sends challenge
statement s∗
1, . . . , s∗
p ∈S.
3. The attacker outputs the challenge witness w∗
1, . . . , w∗
p ∈W.

276
S. Sch¨age
We say that the attacker wins if for all i ∈[p] we have (s∗
i , w∗
i ) ∈R. If in
any execution of the security game algorithm C ﬁnishes Step 2.i.2, we say that
C accepts the s1, . . . , si.
To generalize our security notion, we also deﬁne the case for t = 0 where the
attacker is not allowed to query any statement for its corresponding witness.
Security Game: Lunchtime Inversion with t = 0 (No) Adaptive Queries.
1. The challenger C calls (R, cert) ←RGen(1κ). The output is sent to the
attacker A along with p challenge statements s∗
1, . . . , s∗
p ∈S.
2. The attacker outputs the challenge witnesses w∗
1, . . . , w∗
p ∈W.
Again, we say that the attacker wins if for all i ∈[p] we have (s∗
i , w∗
i ) ∈R.
Deﬁnition 3. We say that certiﬁed (strong) RRR system RRR is secure against
(lunchtime) inversion (attacks) with t adaptive queries if no PPT attacker A can
have non-negligible success probability to win in the above security game.
8
Interactive Complexity Assumption
t-Interactive Complexity Assumptions. To model interactive complexity assump-
tions with t queries we will rely on a generalization of the formulation introduced
in [2] that originally focuses on non-interactive assumptions only. It is slightly
more general than the notion in [34] which uses ﬁxed thresholds. Intuitively,
the notion we use allows arbitrary algorithms to implement a trivial guessing
strategy. A t-interactive complexity assumption (tICA) consists of t + 3 Turing
machines ICA = (ICAGen, ICAVer, ICATriv, ICAQuery1, . . . , ICAQueryt).
– The eﬃcient probabilistic instance generator ICAGen(1κ) →(c, st0) computes
on input the security parameter in unary a problem instance c and initial
state st0.
– On input the i-th query qi and state sti−1 for i ∈[1; t], the eﬃcient algorithm
ICAQueryi outputs the i-th response pi and state sti. For convenience, we will
also consider the set of all the ICAQueryi as a stateful algorithm ICAQuery in
the natural way.
– The eﬃcient algorithm ICATriv is given a problem instance c and t-time oracle
access to a stateful algorithm ICAQuery. It outputs a candidate solution s.
This algorithm implements a trivial attack.
– The veriﬁcation algorithm ICAVer takes as input a problem instance c,
the ﬁnal state stt, and a purported solution s and outputs a bit b. If
ICAVer(c, stt, s) = 1 we say that s is a valid solution.
If ICAVer is eﬃcient, we call ICA falsiﬁable.
Security Game for t-Interactive Complexity Assumptions ( tICAs). Let us con-
sider the following security experiment ICAA
N involving attacker A.

New Limits of Provable Security and Applications to ElGamal Encryption
277
1. The experiment runs ICAGen(1κ) →(c, st0).
2. A is given c and oracle access to ICAQuery (run with random coins rP ) for
up to t queries.
3. Finally, the attacker outputs a candidate solution s.
4. The experiment returns whatever ICAVer(c, stt, s) returns.
Deﬁnition 4. We say that A eﬃciently breaks tICA ICA if A runs in polynomial
time and
|Pr[ICAA
ICA(1κ) ⇒1] −Pr[ICAICATriv
ICA
(1κ) ⇒1]| = ϵ
is non-negligible where the probability is over the random coins consumed by
ICAGen, ICATriv, ICAQuery and A. We say that tICA ICA is secure if no proba-
bilistic polynomial algorithm can break ICA.
9
First Result: Impossibility of Simple Reductions
for General RRR Systems
In this section, we will establish our ﬁrst result. Before we begin, let us describe
the restrictions that we make on the considered reductions.
9.1
Simple Reductions
Our ﬁrst result will consider a restricted form of reduction algorithms that we call
simple reductions. We stress that most of the reductions in cryptography seem
to be of this type, including all reductions that are used for security proofs of
ElGamal PKE and derived schemes. In particular, we will consider reductions B
with the following properties.
– B treats the attacker in a black-box way, as in our general result.
– B only calls a single attacker.
– B does not rewind the attacker.
9.2
First Main Result
Now let us formally state our ﬁrst result.
Theorem 1. Let RRR be a certiﬁed RRR system with constant fan-out k. Let
p be a constant that indicates the number of statements that the attacker must
invert in the lunchtime-inversion game. Then there is no simple PPT reduction
B that can reduce the security of the lunchtime-inversion game with t+1 adaptive
queries to the security of any t-interactive complexity assumption ICA.

278
S. Sch¨age
9.3
Proof of Theorem 1
Let us provide an overview of the proof. At ﬁrst, we specify an ideal (unbounded)
attacker A for which the reduction has to work. Next, we present an eﬃcient
meta-reduction M that simulates the ideal attacker. Finally, we analyze the
diﬀerence between the behavior of a reduction B in the two cases. We show that
the reduction will not be able to tell the two settings apart. Thus, the reduction
also has to work for the eﬃcient M. The combination of B and M will therefore
break the underlying tICA. The meta-reduction gains its power from rewinding
the reduction.
In a nutshell, the proof relies on the fact that we can always ﬁnd a useful
rewinding spot after rewinding. The useful rewinding spot is an attacker query
such that i) the reduction provides a (correct) response to that query and ii)
the reduction does not query its tICA challenger before delivering the response.
Intuitively, the meta-reduction will repeatedly try to hit a useful rewinding spot
and send new queries that are derived from the challenge statements to the
reduction. The proof exploits that in each of these runs, with non-negligible
probability, the reduction will behave as in the ﬁrst run if presented with a new
query since new queries are distributed statistically close to queries of the ﬁrst
run. Let us now be more formal.
9.4
The Ideal Attacker A
1. The attacker A receives random coins r, and R, cert. It aborts in case
RVerify(R, cert) ̸= 1. Otherwise, it continues.
2. The parties repeat the following steps for all i ∈[1; t + 1].
2.i.1 The attacker A draws (si, wi) ←RSubSample(R) and sends si to the
challenger.
2.i.2 The challenger responds with witness w′
i. If i = t, the challenger also
sends challenge statements s∗
1, . . . , s∗
p ∈S. The attacker aborts in the
case that ReCheck(si, wi, w′
i) ̸= 1. Otherwise, it continues.
3. The attacker checks if s∗
1, . . . , s∗
p ∈S and aborts otherwise. Next, the attacker
uses its unbounded power to compute a challenge witness w∗
ℓ∈W for each
ℓ∈[p]. To this end it could for example compute RSample(R; r) for all possible
random coins and generate the set Ws∗
ℓfor each ℓ∈[p]. From this, it can
draw an arbitrary witness w′
ℓ∈Ws∗
ℓ. Next, it re-randomizes witness w′
ℓby
computing w∗
ℓ←ReRand(s∗
ℓ, w′
ℓ). The ﬁnal output consists of w∗
1, . . . , w∗
p.
9.5
The Meta-Reduction M Can Rewind Reduction B
We will now consider a meta-reduction M that acts as an attacker against the
purported reduction B. In particular, we assume that M can store the full execu-
tion state statei of B after B has sent some message and awaits a corresponding
response. With these states, M can rewind B to a previous point in time by
loading the corresponding execution states. Let us now specify how the meta-
reduction simulates the ideal attacker.

New Limits of Provable Security and Applications to ElGamal Encryption
279
9.6
The Simulated Attacker
0. The meta-reduction M receives the tICA instance c and relays it to B along
with random coins rB ∈DB.
1. The attacker M receives r, R, cert from B and aborts if RVerify(R, cert) ̸= 1.
Otherwise, it continues.
2. The parties repeat the following steps for all i ∈[1; t + 1].
2.i.1 First the attacker M stores B’s execution state statei. Next, the attacker
M calls (si, wi) ←RSubSample(R) and sends si to the reduction.
2.i.2 The reduction responds with a witness w′
i ∈W. If the reduction B
outputs a query to its tICA challenger, this query is simply relayed by M
to its tICA challenger. Likewise, all responses are relayed back to B. The
attacker M aborts if ReCheck(si, wi, w′
i) ̸= 1. Otherwise, it continues. If
i = t the reduction also sends challenge statements s∗
1, . . . , s∗
p ∈S to M.
2’ The attacker checks if s∗
1, . . . , s∗
p ∈S. On failure it aborts. Otherwise, it halts
B and stores the current execution state state∗of B. Then, for each ℓ∈[p]
the attacker M repeats the following loop:
2’.ℓThe attacker M computes (s′
ℓ, st∗
ℓ) ←RSRStatement(R, s∗
ℓ) with s′
ℓ=
(s′
ℓ,1, . . . , s′
ℓ,k). Next, M iterates through all k components of s′
ℓ. To this
end, it repeats the following loop for all j ∈[k]:
2’.ℓ.j The attacker M iterates through all possible states statev. To this
end, it repeats the following loop for all state indices v ∈[t + 1]:
2’.ℓ.j.v The attacker M rewinds the reduction B back to the point
before [2.v.1] by loading statev. Next it sends s′
ℓ,j to B. If M
receives a response w′
ℓ,j ∈W and no external query to its
tICA challenger has been made by the reduction in the time
between sending s′
ℓ,j and receiving w′
ℓ,j, M leaves this loop
immediately (break5). Otherwise, it checks whether v = t+1.
In case v = t + 1,6, attacker M jumps back to 2’.ℓand
repeats the entire computation calling RSRStatement(R, s∗
ℓ)
with fresh randomness.
3. The meta-reduction computes the value w′∗
ℓ
←RSRWitness(R, st∗
ℓ, w′
ℓ) for
each ℓ∈[p] and from this w∗
ℓ←ReRand(R, s∗
ℓ, w′∗
ℓ) for all ℓ∈[p]. Next it
loads B’s state state∗, and outputs the challenge witnesses w∗
1, . . . , w∗
p ∈W.
4. B responds with a solution to the tICA challenge.
5. Finally, meta-reduction M relays that solution to the tICA challenger.
9.7
Analysis
Due to space limitations, the proof of the following lemma can be found in the
full version.
5 The attacker M continues at Step 2′.ℓ.j′ for j′ = j + 1.
6 This means, that M has not received w′
ℓ,j ∈W as a response to s′
ℓ,j in any of the
states statev or if the reduction has always made external queries.

280
S. Sch¨age
Lemma 5. The following four conditions are fulﬁlled:
1. M runs in expected polynomial time.
2. M always outputs w∗
1, . . . , w∗
p if it ﬁnishes its computations.
3. All values w′
ℓ,j received by M as responses to s′
ℓ,j in the rewinding process of
M are correct with non-negligible probability, i.e. (s′
ℓ,j, w′
ℓ,j) ∈R.
4. With probability statistically close to one, the reduction B can never distin-
guish M from A.
5. M makes at most t queries to the ICA challenger.
With Lemma 5 we are guaranteed that B, after expected polynomial time,
outputs a solution to the tICA challenge when given w∗
1, . . . , w∗
p with non-
negligible probability. This concludes the proof of Theorem 1. We note that
previous results on meta-reductions like [34] also require the reduction to run in
expected polynomial time. By an application of the Markov inequality, we can
then truncate the execution of the machine while still guaranteeing an inverse
polynomial success probability for inﬁnitely many security parameters in strict
polynomial time.
10
Second Main Result
On the Neccessity of Non-Rewinding Reductions. For our ﬁrst result it is impor-
tant that the reduction cannot rewind the attacker. Otherwise it could (in Step
2.i.2) ﬁrst try to send some incorrect w′ to M such that (s, w′) /∈R when
answering an inversion query for s. Only if the attacker aborts, the reduction
would rewind M and retry to respond to the query s with a correct w. However,
since M can in a rewound run not notice if w′ is correct while the ideal attacker
can always notice this, the reduction can easily tell A and M apart. This is a
fundamental problem when dealing with RRRs.
Tackling Rewinding Reductions. In our second main result, we will thus extend
and reﬁne the above idea to deal with general reductions. In particular, we need
to take care of rewinding reductions. At the same time we take care of reductions
that execute several, u, attackers concurrently. To this end, we make use of novel
and known techniques. However, what is crucial is that because of the generic
problem that we described we now have to rely on strong RRR systems when
dealing with rewinding reductions. This has important consequences. First, we
will end up showing an impossibility result for the weaker notion of Paired OW-
CCA1 security (where statements correspond to ciphertext pairs and witnesses
to plaintext pairs) when applying our result to strong RRRs based on semi-
homomorphic PKE. This makes our result seemingly stronger than the last one
since Paired OW-CCA1 is weaker than OW-CCA1 security and thus IND-CCA1
security. However, crucially, the result now holds only if the reduction makes at
most half the number of queries ⌊t/2⌋to its ⌊t/2⌋ICA challenger where t is the
number of queries by the attacker. This also makes our result somewhat weaker.
Finally, we will consider reductions that make at most arbitrary u instances
overall.

New Limits of Provable Security and Applications to ElGamal Encryption
281
Theorem 2. Let RRR be a certiﬁed strong RRR system with constant fan-out k.
Let p be a polynomial. There is no PPT reduction B that can reduce the security
of the lunchtime inversion game with t′ ≥(u+t) adaptive queries to the security
of any tICA while creating at most u instances of the attacker overall.
Lazy Simulation. For space reasons, the proof can be found in the full version.
Here we provide a brief sketch of the proof. Let us provide some intuition for the
simulation strategy of our ﬁnal meta-reduction. Assume the reduction B creates
u instances of the attacker A. Intuitively, we employ a careful generalization of
the previous proof strategy that is applied to each simulated attacker, one after
the other. The meta-reduction M simulates all of these runs. Since it has to deal
with rewinding reductions, the proof makes sure that the ideal attacker and the
meta-reduction behave deterministically from the point of view of the reduction.
Thus rewindings do not help the reduction to obtain additional information.
Corresponding to the lunchtime inversion game (Figure 1, Sect. 7), in the ﬁrst
phase of each of the simulated attackers, the meta-reduction only queries the
reduction on t + 1 random statements. At the end of each of these phases,
the meta-reduction has received back the corresponding witnesses to its random
queries and also the set of challenge statements s∗
1, . . . , s∗
p. Let A′ be the instance
of the simulated attacker that receives the challenge statements ﬁrst. This starts
the second phase of the simulation of A′ which is similar to the proof of the
ﬁrst main theorem. First, the meta-reduction stores the state of the reduction
at this point to later come back to it. Next, M repeatedly rewinds R back to
hit a useful rewinding spot with a derived statement. However, in this proof, a
useful rewinding spot fulﬁlls three conditions. It is an index i, such that in the
time span between query si from A′ and corresponding response wi sent to A′,
the reduction has i) not made any external query to the complexity assumption,
ii) has responded with a correct response (this can now be tested), and iii) not
required any of the u −1 other instances of the (simulated) attacker to output a
forgery. As in the ﬁrst proof, i) ensures that the outside communication between
B and its challenger is not disturbed. The third condition is crucial to avoid that
simulation runtimes can grow exponentially when the communication with the
attacker is nested by the reduction after rewinding [34]. Since there are only t
queries from the reduction to the complexity assumption overall and since we
only have at most u instances (and at most u−1 that are diﬀerent from A′) there
will always be at least one such index if t′ ≥u + t by the pigeon-hole principle.
Now, the reduction, as in the ﬁrst proof, proceeds according to a lazy strategy
that tries to extract all p challenge witnesses by exploiting that M can repeatedly
send new query si to B and that, with high probability, B behaves as in the ﬁrst
run. As a ﬁrst step, it randomizes the ﬁrst challenge statement s∗
1 (exploiting
random self-reducibility) and sends the result as a new query s′
i at index i to B.
Since the distribution of the two queries si, s′
i are statistically close, the reduction
will with high probability behave as after the ﬁrst query and output a witness
without calling the challenger of the complexity challenge. On failure, M simply
generates another randomization of s∗
1 and tries again. Observe that since we
now rely on strong RRRs, the meta-reduction can, like the ideal attacker, always

282
S. Sch¨age
check if the responses from the reduction are correct. On success, M can exploit
the response to s′
i and the properties of the RRR (random self-reducibility and
re-randomizability) to obtain a solution w∗
1 to the ﬁrst challenge statement. After
that, M repeats the process with all of its other challenge statements, one after
the other. Since M can now immediately check if a witness w∗
i is indeed correct
(exploiting the indirect membership test of strong RRRs at the end of Step 2’.ℓ.j
in the meta-reduction), the meta-reduction can proceed in a step-by-step manner
and only continue if the previous witness was successfully found. In this way, the
meta-reduction can slowly but surely accumulate all witnesses. Next, the meta-
reduction returns to the original execution state and, after re-randomization,
outputs the solutions to the challenge queries. By the properties of the RRR,
the reduction will accept these values with high probability. The simulation
continues until the next simulated attacker receives its challenge statements and
the process of extracting solutions to the challenge statements is repeated. This
increases the runtime of the meta-reduction at most by an additional factor of u.
Finally, if M has computed responses to all challenge statements, B will output
the solution to the tICA.
References
1. Auerbach, B., Cash, D., Fersch, M., Kiltz, E.: Memory-tight reductions. In: Katz,
J., Shacham, H. (eds.) CRYPTO 2017, Part I, LNCS, vol. 10401, pp. 101–132.
Springer, Heidelberg, August 2017. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-63688-7 4
2. Bader, C., Jager, T., Li, Y., Sch¨age, S.: On the impossibility of tight cryptographic
reductions. In: Fischlin, M., Coron, J.S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2016, Part II. LNCS,
vol. 9666, pp. 273–304. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2016.https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-662-49896-5 10
3. Baecher, P., Brzuska, C., Fischlin, M.: Notions of black-box reductions, revis-
ited. In: Sako, K., Sarkar, P. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2013, Part I. LNCS, vol. 8269,
pp. 296–315. Springer, Heidelberg, December 2013. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-642-42033-7 16
4. Baldimtsi, F., Lysyanskaya, A.: On the security of one-witness blind signature
schemes. In: Sako, K., Sarkar, P. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2013, Part II. LNCS,
vol. 8270, pp. 82–99. Springer, Heidelberg, December 2013. https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-642-42045-0 5
5. Boneh, D., Franklin, M.K.: Identity-based encryption from the Weil pairing. In:
Kilian, J. (ed.) CRYPTO 2001. LNCS, vol. 2139, pp. 213–229. Springer, Heidelberg,
August 2001. https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44647-8 13
6. Boneh, D., Venkatesan, R.: Breaking RSA may not be equivalent to factoring. In:
Nyberg, K. (ed.) EUROCRYPT’98. LNCS, vol. 1403, pp. 59–71. Springer, Heidel-
berg, May/June 1998. https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0054117
7. Bresson, E., Monnerat, J., Vergnaud, D.: Separation results on the “one-more”
computational problems. In: Malkin, T. (ed.) CT-RSA 2008. LNCS, vol. 4964,
pp. 71–87. Springer, Heidelberg, April 2008. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-
79263-5 5
8. Brown, D.R.L.: Irreducibility to the one-more evaluation problems: more may be
less. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2007/435 (2007). http://eprint.iacr.org/

New Limits of Provable Security and Applications to ElGamal Encryption
283
9. Canetti, R., Goldreich, O., Goldwasser, S., Micali, S.: Resettable zero-knowledge
(extended abstract). In: 32nd ACM STOC, pp. 235–244. ACM Press, May 2000.
https://doi.org/10.1145/335305.335334
10. Canetti, R., Lin, H., Pass, R.: Adaptive hardness and composable security in the
plain model from standard assumptions. In: 51st FOCS, pp. 541–550. IEEE Com-
puter Society Press, October 2010. https://doi.org/10.1109/FOCS.2010.86
11. Chung, K., Lin, H., Mahmoody, M., Pass, R.: On the power of nonuniformity in
proofs of security. In: Kleinberg, R.D. (ed.) ITCS ’13, Berkeley, CA, USA, 9-12 Jan-
uary 2013, pp. 389–400. ACM (2013). https://doi.org/10.1145/2422436.2422480
12. Coron, J.S.: Optimal security proofs for PSS and other signature schemes. In:
Knudsen, L.R. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2002, LNCS, vol. 2332, pp. 272–287. Springer,
Heidelberg, Apr/May 2002. https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-46035-7 18
13. Cramer, R., Shoup, V.: A practical public key cryptosystem provably secure against
adaptive chosen ciphertext attack. In: Krawczyk, H. (ed.) CRYPTO’98, LNCS,
vol. 1462, pp. 13–25. Springer, Heidelberg, August 1998. https://doi.org/10.1007/
BFb0055717
14. Damg˚ard, I., Jurik, M.: A generalisation, a simpliﬁcation and some applications
of Paillier’s probabilistic public-key system. In: Kim, K. (ed.) PKC 2001. LNCS,
vol. 1992, pp. 119–136. Springer, Heidelberg, February 2001. https://doi.org/10.
1007/3-540-44586-2 9
15. Deng, Y., Goyal, V., Sahai, A.: Resolving the simultaneous resettability conjecture
and a new non-black-box simulation strategy. In: 50th FOCS, pp. 251–260. IEEE
Computer Society Press, October 2009. https://doi.org/10.1109/FOCS.2009.59
16. Diﬃe, W., Hellman, M.E.: New directions in cryptography. IEEE Trans. Inf. The-
ory 22(6), 644–654 (1976). https://doi.org/10.1109/TIT.1976.1055638
17. Dodis, Y., Oliveira, R., Pietrzak, K.: On the generic insecurity of the full domain
hash. In: Shoup, V. (ed.) CRYPTO 2005. LNCS, vol. 3621, pp. 449–466. Springer,
Heidelberg, August 2005. https://doi.org/10.1007/11535218 27
18. Dodis, Y., Reyzin, L.: On the power of claw-free permutations. In: Cimato, S.,
Galdi, C., Persiano, G. (eds.) SCN 02. LNCS, vol. 2576, pp. 55–73. Springer, Hei-
delberg, September 2003. https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-36413-7 5
19. ElGamal, T.: A public key cryptosystem and a signature scheme based on discrete
logarithms. In: Blakley, G.R., Chaum, D. (eds.) CRYPTO’84. LNCS, vol. 196, pp.
10–18. Springer, Heidelberg, August 1984
20. Fischlin, M., Fleischhacker, N.: Limitations of the meta-reduction technique:
the case of Schnorr signatures. In: Johansson, T., Nguyen, P.Q. (eds.) EURO-
CRYPT 2013. LNCS, vol. 7881, pp. 444–460. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2013.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-38348-9 27
21. Fleischhacker, N., Jager, T., Schr¨oder, D.: On tight security proofs for Schnorr sig-
natures. In: Sarkar, P., Iwata, T. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2014, Part I. LNCS, vol. 8873,
pp. 512–531. Springer, Heidelberg, December 2014. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-662-45611-8 27
22. Fuchsbauer, G., Kiltz, E., Loss, J.: The algebraic group model and its applications.
In: Shacham, H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2018, Part II. LNCS, vol. 10992,
pp. 33–62. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2018. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
96881-0 2
23. Garg, S., Bhaskar, R., Lokam, S.V.: Improved bounds on security reductions for
discrete log based signatures. In: Wagner, D. (ed.) CRYPTO 2008. LNCS, vol. 5157,
pp. 93–107. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2008. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
540-85174-5 6

284
S. Sch¨age
24. Hanaoka, G., Matsuda, T., Schuldt, J.C.N.: On the impossibility of constructing
eﬃcient key encapsulation and programmable hash functions in prime order groups.
In: Safavi-Naini, R., Canetti, R. (eds.) CRYPTO 2012. LNCS, vol. 7417, pp. 812–
831. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2012. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-32009-
5 47
25. Hofheinz, D., Jager, T., Knapp, E.: Waters signatures with optimal security
reduction. In: Fischlin, M., Buchmann, J., Manulis, M. (eds.) PKC 2012. LNCS,
vol. 7293, pp. 66–83. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2012. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-642-30057-8 5
26. Kakvi, S.A., Kiltz, E.: Optimal security proofs for full domain hash, revisited.
In: Pointcheval, D., Johansson, T. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2012. LNCS, vol. 7237,
pp. 537–553. Springer, Heidelberg, April 2012. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-
29011-4 32
27. Lindell,
Y.:
Is
ElGamal
IND-CCA1
Secure?
–
answer.
https://crypto.
stackexchange.com/questions/26867/is-elgamal-ind-cca1
(2015).
Accessed
03
April 2022
28. Lindell, Y.: Fast secure two-party ECDSA signing. In: Katz, J., Shacham, H. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2017, Part II. LNCS, vol. 10402, pp. 613–644. Springer, Heidelberg,
August 2017. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-63715-0 21
29. Lipmaa, H.: On the CCA1-security of Elgamal and Damg˚ard’s Elgamal. Cryptology
ePrint Archive, Report 2008/234 (2008). https://ia.cr/2008/234
30. Morgan, A., Pass, R.: On the security loss of unique signatures. In: Beimel, A.,
Dziembowski, S. (eds.) TCC 2018, Part I. LNCS, vol. 11239, pp. 507–536. Springer,
Heidelberg, November 2018. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-03807-6 19
31. Paillier, P.: Public-key cryptosystems based on composite degree residuosity
classes. In: Stern, J. (ed.) EUROCRYPT’99. LNCS, vol. 1592, pp. 223–238.
Springer, Heidelberg, May 1999. https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48910-X 16
32. Paillier, P., Vergnaud, D.: Discrete-log-based signatures may not be equivalent to
discrete log. In: Roy, B.K. (ed.) ASIACRYPT 2005. LNCS, vol. 3788, pp. 1–20.
Springer, Heidelberg, December 2005. https://doi.org/10.1007/11593447 1
33. Paillier, P., Villar, J.L.: Trading one-wayness against chosen-ciphertext security in
factoring-based encryption. In: Lai, X., Chen, K. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2006. LNCS,
vol. 4284, pp. 252–266. Springer, Heidelberg, December 2006. https://doi.org/10.
1007/11935230 17
34. Pass, R.: Limits of provable security from standard assumptions. In: Fortnow,
L., Vadhan, S.P. (eds.) 43rd ACM STOC. pp. 109–118. ACM Press, June 2011.
https://doi.org/10.1145/1993636.1993652
35. Pass, R., Venkitasubramaniam, M.: On constant-round concurrent zero-knowledge.
In: Canetti, R. (ed.) TCC 2008. LNCS, vol. 4948, pp. 553–570. Springer, Heidel-
berg, March 2008. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-78524-8 30
36. Pointcheval, D., Stern, J.: Security proofs for signature schemes. In: Maurer, U.M.
(ed.) EUROCRYPT’96. LNCS, vol. 1070, pp. 387–398. Springer, Heidelberg, May
1996. https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-68339-9 33
37. Reingold, O., Trevisan, L., Vadhan, S.P.: Notions of reducibility between cryp-
tographic primitives. In: Naor, M. (ed.) TCC 2004. LNCS, vol. 2951, pp. 1–20.
Springer, Heidelberg, February 2004. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-24638-
1 1
38. Richardson, R., Kilian, J.: On the concurrent composition of zero-knowledge proofs.
In: Stern, J. (ed.) EUROCRYPT’99. LNCS, vol. 1592, pp. 415–431. Springer, Hei-
delberg, May 1999. https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48910-X 29

New Limits of Provable Security and Applications to ElGamal Encryption
285
39. Seurin, Y.: On the exact security of Schnorr-type signatures in the random ora-
cle model. In: Pointcheval, D., Johansson, T. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2012. LNCS,
vol. 7237, pp. 554–571. Springer, Heidelberg, April 2012. https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-642-29011-4 33
40. Wu, J., Stinson, D.R.: On the security of the ElGamal encryption scheme and
Damg˚ard’s variant. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch. p. 200 (2008). http://eprint.iacr.
org/2008/200
41. Zhang, J., Zhang, Z., Chen, Y., Guo, Y., Zhang, Z.: Black-box separations for
one-more (static) CDH and its generalization. In: Sarkar, P., Iwata, T. (eds.)
ASIACRYPT 2014, Part II. LNCS, vol. 8874, pp. 366–385. Springer, Heidelberg,
December 2014. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-45608-8 20

