On the Lattice Isomorphism Problem,
Quadratic Forms, Remarkable Lattices,
and Cryptography
L┬┤eo Ducas1,2
and Wessel van Woerden1(B)
1 CWI, Cryptology Group, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
wvw@cwi.nl
2 Mathematical Institute, Leiden University, Leiden, The Netherlands
Abstract. A natural and recurring idea in the knapsack/lattice cryp-
tography literature is to start from a lattice with remarkable decoding
capability as your private key, and hide it somehow to make a public key.
This is also how the code-based encryption scheme of McEliece (1978)
proceeds.
This idea has never worked out very well for lattices: ad-hoc
approaches have been proposed, but they have been subject to ad-
hoc attacks, using tricks beyond lattice reduction algorithms. On the
other hand the framework o№гђered by the Short Integer Solution (SIS)
and Learning With Errors (LWE) problems, while convenient and well
founded, remains frustrating from a coding perspective: the underlying
decoding algorithms are rather trivial, with poor decoding performance.
In this work, we provide generic realizations of this natural idea (inde-
pendently of the chosen remarkable lattice) by basing cryptography on
the lattice isomorphism problem (LIP). More speci№гЂcally, we provide:
РђЊ a
worst-case
to
average-case
reduction
for
search-LIP
and
distinguish-LIP within an isomorphism class, by extending tech-
niques of Haviv and Regev (SODA 2014).
РђЊ a zero-knowledge proof of knowledge (ZKPoK) of an isomorphism.
This implies an identi№гЂcation scheme based on search-LIP.
РђЊ a key encapsulation mechanism (KEM) scheme and a hash-then-sign
signature scheme, both based on distinguish-LIP.
The purpose of this approach is for remarkable lattices to improve the
security and performance of lattice-based cryptography. For example,
decoding within poly-logarithmic factor from MinkowskiРђЎs bound in a
remarkable lattice would lead to a KEM resisting lattice attacks down
to poly-logarithmic approximation factor, provided that the dual lattice
is also close to MinkowskiРђЎs bound. Recent works have indeed reached
such decoders for certain lattices (Chor-Rivest, Barnes-Sloan), but these
do not perfectly №гЂt our need as their duals have poor minimal distance.
1
Introduction
At repeated occasions [8,22,24,33,45], and over more than 30 years, it has been
attempted to adapt the public-key encryption scheme of McEliece [25] from codes
c
РЃЮInternational Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
O. Dunkelman and S. Dziembowski (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2022, LNCS 13277, pp. 643РђЊ673, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-07082-2_23

644
L. Ducas and W. van Woerden
to lattices. More speci№гЂcally, these works attempted to construct particularly
good lattices with e№гЃcient decoding algorithms, to use it as a secret-key, and
to give a bad description of a similar lattice as the corresponding public-key.
For example, it was analysed in [11] that the Chor-Rivest cryptosystem [8] was
implicitly relying on a family of lattices for which it is possible to e№гЃciently
decode errors up to a radius within a factor of O(log n) from optimal (Minkowski
bound). For comparison, the decoding algorithm underlying schemes based on
the Learning with Error problem [39] (LWE) fall short from the Minkowski
bound by polynomial factors; they essentially reduce decoding to the case of the
trivial lattice Zn.
This McEliece-like approach has unfortunately not been very popular lately.
Perhaps it has su№гђered from the failure of the Merkle-Hellman Knapsack-based
cryptosystem [26,43] more than it should have. Indeed, from the Рђюknapsack-
eraРђЮ, only the Merkle-Hellman cryptosystem and its variants were completely
devastated by a polynomial-time attack [32]. In contrast, the best known attack
against the scheme of Chor and Rivest [8,24] remains sub-exponential in the
dimension n; what may be concerning is that those attacks are not pure lattice
reduction attacks. For both versions of this scheme, the canonical coordinates
are partially brute-forced during the best attack. Lapiha [20] found that an
Information Set Decoding attack was possible against the variant of Li et al. [24].
BrickellРђЎs attack against the original scheme also relies on guessing over a few
canonical coordinates, inside of an arithmetic attack [8, Sec. VII.5].
However, we note that these attacks are enabled by the fact that these
schemes only re-randomize the lattice by applying a permutation of the coor-
dinates.1 Such permutations are isometries, i.e. lattice isomorphism, but those
are not the only ones. . . The isometry group On(R) acting on lattices is much
larger than the one acting on codes, and applying a random isometry from this
larger group should convincingly thwart those code-style attacks: the canonical
coordinate system becomes irrelevant.
All these remarks point toward the Lattice Isomorphism Problem (LIP) as a
potential theoretical platform for №гЂnally getting this natural approach properly
formalized, and hopefully, truely Рђюlattice-basedРђЮ in the cryptanalytic sense: the
best known attack should be based on generic lattice reduction algorithms such
as LLL [21] and BKZ [40]. The current state of the art on LIP supports this
hypothesis: all known algorithms [17,37,38,44] rely on №гЂnding short vectors. This
is the case even for algorithms specialized to the trivial lattice Zn [46]. However,
experimental studies [6] show that the basis randomization step requires care.
While instantiating LIP with Zn may already give rise to secure cryptosys-
tems, the end goal of this work is to enable lattice-based cryptosystems that
1 This permutation is in fact implicit, hidden in the ordering of the evaluation points
used to de№гЂne the lattice. Furthermore, both in these lattice schemes and in subse-
quent versions of the McEliece, one may also discard some the evaluation points to
randomize the lattice/code itself beyond isometry. In this article, we will not consider
this extra randomization.

On LIP, Quadratic Forms, Remarkable Lattices, and Cryptography
645
could be even more secure than those based on LWE and SIS, by instantiating
the constructed schemes with remarkably decodable lattices.
1.1
Contributions
We propose a formal and convenient framework for LIP-based cryptography,
from which we build an identi№гЂcation scheme based on search-LIP (sLIP), a
(passively secure) Key Encapsulation Mechanism (KEM) based on distinguish-
LIP (╬ћLIP), as well as signature scheme also based on ╬ћLIP. In more details:
РђЊ We №гЂrst discuss the LIP problem, recall the quadratic form formalism
(Sect. 2.2), and rephrase the LIP problem in terms of quadratic forms to
conveniently avoid real numbers. Then, thanks to Gaussian Sampling [12,34],
we de№гЂne an average-case distribution for LIP and establish a worst-case to
average-case reduction within an isomorphism class (Sect. 3). This addresses
the concerns raised by Blanks and Miller [6], and formalizes their heuristic
countermeasure.
РђЊ The above cryptographic foundations are directly inspired by the Zero-
Knowledge proof of lattice non-isomorphism of Haviv and Regev [16]. We
further extend on their techniques by proposing a Zero-Knowledge proof of
knowledge (ZKPoK) of a lattice isomorphism (Sect. 4). This directly implies
an identi№гЂcation scheme based on sLIP.
РђЊ We propose a KEM scheme (Sect. 5) and a hash-then-sign signature scheme
(Sect. 6), both based on ╬ћLIP. Perhaps surprisingly, and unlike the original
scheme of McEliece for codes, we circumvent the additional assumption that
decoding a certain class of random lattices would be hard. This is done via a
lossyness argument [36] for the KEM, and a dual argument for the signature
scheme.
РђЊ We review the state of the art for solving LIP (Sect. 7). In particular we note
that all known algorithms go through lattice reduction, and we quantify the
required approximation factor.
РђЊ We discuss natural instantiations for each scheme (Sect. 8) from any remark-
able lattice. This section handles the construction of the auxiliary lattice
appearing in ╬ћLIP for the lossyness arguments to get through.
1.2
Potential Advantages
The KEM. To instantiate our KEM, consider a lattice L (w.l.o.g. of volume 1)
such that:
РђЊ the minimal distance is within a factor f from MinkowskiРђЎs bound: ╬╗1(L) РЕЙ
╬Е(Рѕџn/f),
РђЊ there exists an e№гЃcient algorithm that can decode errors in L up to radius ¤Ђ
within a factor f Рђ▓ from MinkowskiРђЎs bound: ¤Ђ РЕЙ╬Е(Рѕџn/f Рђ▓).2
2 Note that uniqueness of decoding implies f Рђ▓ РЕЙ2f.

646
L. Ducas and W. van Woerden
РђЊ the dual minimal distance is within a factor f РѕЌfrom MinkowskiРђЎs bound:
╬╗1(LРѕЌ) РЕЙ╬Е(Рѕџn/f РѕЌ).
Then, our instantiated KEM appears to resist lattice attack down to an approx-
imation factor O(max(f, f РѕЌ) ┬и f РѕЌ┬и f Рђ▓). More speci№гЂcally, itРђЎs security is based
on ╬ћLIP for two lattices whose primals and duals are all within a factor
O(max(f, f РѕЌ) ┬и f РѕЌ┬и f Рђ▓) from MinkowskiРђЎs bound.
The trivial lattice Zn gives all three factors f, f Рђ▓, f РѕЌof the order ╬ў(Рѕџn). The
Barnes-Wall [28] lattice improves all three factors down to ╬ў( 4Рѕџn).
The endgame would be to instantiate with lattices for which all three factors
would be very small. In particular, one would naturally turn to recent work on
decoding the Chor-Rivest lattices [8,11,20,24] and the Barnes-Sloane lattices [31]
giving f Рђю polylog(n) and f Рђ▓ Рђю polylog(n), but unfortunately their dual are
not that good: f РѕЌРЕЙ╬ў(Рѕџn). Indeed, all these constructions are integer lattices
L ─ѓ Zn with single exponential volume det(L) Рђю cn: their dual LРѕЌhave a
MinkowskiРђЎs bound of ╬ў(Рѕџn/ det(L)1/n) Рђю ╬ў(Рѕџn), but contain all of Zn ─ѓ LРѕЌ,
including vectors of norm 1.
Note nevertheless that there is no geometric impossibility to the existence
of the desired remarkably decodable lattice: random lattices have f Рђю O(1) and
f РѕЌРђю O(1); so decoding is possible down to f Рђ▓ Рђю O(1) but the best known
algorithm is conjectured to take exponential time.
The Signature Scheme. The same principle also applies to our signature scheme,
but this time with respect to Gaussian sampling rather than decoding: lattices
with tight sampling (and large dual minimal distance) would lead to a scheme
resisting attacks down to very small approximation factors. Alas, even ignoring
the constraint on the dual lattice, we do not know of any lattice much better
than Zn for e№гЃcient gaussian sampling. Yet, instantiated with Zn our scheme
still has an interesting feature: not having to deal with any Gram-Schmidt or
Cholesky matrices over the reals. This may be a worthy practical advantage over
current hash-then-sign signature schemes [12].
The Identi№гЂcation Scheme. Because sLIP seems super-exponentially hard in the
dimension for well chosen lattices (large kissing number), it might be secure
to instantiate our ZKPoK with a rather small lattice dimension, maybe down
to about a hundred. Yet, this is more a theoretical curiosity than a practical
advantageРђћthe protocol still needs soundness ampli№гЂcation, and each round
requires exchanging ╦юO(n2) bits.
1.3
Open Questions
A KEM with polylog-Approximation Factor Security. Is there any family of lat-
tices that can be e№гЃciently decoded within a polylog factor from MinkowskiРђЎs
bound such as [8,11,20,24,31], but whose dual would also have an equally large
minimal distance?

On LIP, Quadratic Forms, Remarkable Lattices, and Cryptography
647
Tight Gaussian Sampling for Signatures. Is there any family of lattices L (of
volume 1) in which one can e№гЃciently sample Gaussian with small parameter
¤Ѓ ─Ѓ o(Рѕџn), if not ¤Ѓ Рђю polylog(n) (with exponential smoothing ¤Ѓ ─Ё ╬и2┬┤n(L))?
And if so, do they and their dual have a large minimal distance? Note that
quantumly, this question is related to the previous one via the reduction of
Regev [39]: decoding in the primal for a large radius gives Gaussian sampling in
the dual for a small width. But a classical algorithm would be much preferable.
Concrete Instantiation with Simple Lattices. Instantiated with Zn, our signa-
ture scheme has the advantage of not requiring any Gram-Schmidt or Cholesky
decomposition, contrary to existing hash-then-sign signature schemes; and may
therefore be of practical interest. It could also be reasonable to instantiate our
KEM with the lattice of Barnes and Wall, thanks to the decoder of Micciancio
and Nicolesi [28].
Module-LIP. At last, it also seems natural to explore structured variants of LIP,
where both the lattice and the isometry should be structured. We note that for
any ideal lattice in complex-multiplication number №гЂelds, a classical polynomial
time algorithm is known [13,23]. Could the module variant be secure? Can our
constructions gain a linear factor on key sizes from this variant? And are there
remarkably decodable lattices that are also ideals in certain number №гЂelds? The
repeated-di№гђerence lattices (a.k.a. CraigРђЎs lattices [9]) are indeed ideal lattices in
cyclotomic number №гЂeld with large minimal distances, but a polynomial decoding
algorithm for them remains to be discovered.
2
Preliminaries
2.1
Notation
Vectors x are denoted in bold and should be interpreted as column vectors. For a
matrix B with columns b1, . . . , bn we denote its Gram-Schmidt orthogonalisation
by BРѕЌwith columns bРѕЌ
1, . . . , bРѕЌ
n, and we denote the matrix norm by РѕЦBРѕЦ:Рђю
maxi РѕЦbiРѕЦ2. We denote Tq the discretized torus Tq :Рђю ( 1
qZ)/Z and identify it
with its set of reduced representatives {0, 1
q, . . . , q┬┤1
q }. The statistical distance
between two random variable X and Y will be denoted ╬ћ(X, Y ).
2.2
Lattice Isomorphism and Quadratic Forms
Abstractly, the set of (full-rank, n-dimensional) lattices can be thought as the
homogeneous space3 GLn(R)/GLn(Z): a lattice L Рђю L(B) :Рђю B ┬и Zn is generated
by the columns of a basis B P GLn(R), and two basis B, BРђ▓ P GLn(R) generate
the same lattice if and only if there exists a unimodular matrix U P GLn(Z) such
that BРђ▓ Рђю BU.
3 This quotient should read as the quotient of a set by the action of group, and not a
group quotient. Indeed GLn(Z) is not a normal subgroup of GLn(R) for n ─Ё 1.

648
L. Ducas and W. van Woerden
Two lattices are isomorphic if there exists an orthonormal transformation
O P On(R) sending one to the other. Finding this transformation, if it exists, is
known as the Lattice Isomorphism Problem (LIP).
De№гЂnition 2.1 (LIP, lattice version). Given two isomorphic lattices L, LРђ▓ ─ѓ
Rn №гЂnd an orthonormal transformation O P On(R) such that LРђ▓ Рђю O ┬и L.
Algorithmically lattices L Рђю L(B), LРђ▓ Рђю L(BРђ▓) are represented by bases B, BРђ▓ P
GLn(R), and if LРђ▓ Рђю O┬иL, then OB is a basis of LРђ▓. If OB Рђю BРђ▓, then we can easily
compute O :Рђю BРђ▓B┬┤1, however in general OB will only be equal to BРђ▓ up to some
unimodular transformation. More speci№гЂcally when L Рђю L(B), and LРђ▓ Рђю L(BРђ▓)
for some lattice bases B, BРђ▓ P GLn(R) the Lattice Isomorphism Problem asks to
№гЂnd an orthonormal O P On(R) and a unimodular U P GLn(Z) such that BРђ▓ Рђю
OBU. The presence of both the orthonormal and the unimodular transformation
is what makes LIP a hard problem. In other words, reconstructing (or even
testing) equivalence in either quotient GLn(R)/GLn(Z) or On(R)\GLn(R) is easy,
doing so in the double quotient On(R)\GLn(R)/GLn(Z) appears to be hard.
The real-valued coordinates of the basis and orthonormal transformation
can be inconvenient and ine№гЃcient to work with. We can alleviate some of these
concerns by moving to the (equivalent) quadratic form setting, where instead of
a basis B we focus on the Gram matrix Q Рђю BtB.
Quadratic Forms and Integral Equivalence. The idea of the Quadratic Form
point of view on LIP is to consider the quotient in the opposite order than in
the lattice point of view: №гЂrst on the left by On(R) and then only on the right
by GLn(Z).
We de№гЂne a quadratic form as a positive de№гЂnite real symmetric matrix.
A quadratic form can be thought as a basis modulo rotation; they realize the
quotient On(R)\GLn(R). More precisely, consider the surjective Gram map ╬│ :
GLn(R) РєњS─Ё0
n (R) sending a lattice basis B to the quadratic form Q Рђю BtB.
Note that the preimages of ╬│(B) are precisely the OB for O P On(R).
For a lattice basis B the Gram matrix Q Рђю BtB naturally gives a quadratic
form. Additionally every quadratic form Q induces a unique upper-triangular lat-
tice basis BQ such that Q Рђю Bt
QBQ (Cholesky decomposition). In the quadratic
form setting lattice vectors Bx P Rn are represented by their integral basis coef-
№гЂcients x P Zn. The inner product with respect to a quadratic form is naturally
given by РЪеx, yРЪЕQ :Рђю xtQy, and the norm by РѕЦxРѕЦ2
Q :Рђю xtQx. Note that this
perfectly coincides with the geometry between the original lattice vectors. We
denote the ball of radius r by BQ(r) :Рђю {x P Rn : РѕЦxРѕЦQ РЕйr}. Translating the
lattice de№гЂnition, one get the №гЂrst minimum ╬╗1(Q) de№гЂned by
╬╗1(Q) :Рђю
min
xPZn\{0} РѕЦxРѕЦQ ,
and more generally the i-th minimal distance ╬╗i(Q) de№гЂned as the smallest r ─Ё 0
such that {x P Zn | РѕЦxРѕЦQ РЕйr} spans a space of dimension at least i.

On LIP, Quadratic Forms, Remarkable Lattices, and Cryptography
649
In this realization S─Ё0
n (R) of the quotient On(R)\GLn(R), the action of U P
GLn(Z) is given by Q РєњU tQU. We may now rephrase LIP for two lattice bases
B and BРђ▓. Note that if BРђ▓ Рђю OBU, then for Q :Рђю BtB we have:
QРђ▓ :Рђю (BРђ▓)tBРђ▓ Рђю U tBtOtOBU Рђю U tBtBU Рђю U tQU,
and we call Q and QРђ▓ equivalent if such a unimodular U P GLn(Z) exists, and
denote the equivalence class by [Q], moving the real-valued orthonormal trans-
form O P On(R) out of the picture. Additionally many remarkable lattices attain
a rational-valued Gram matrix Q, removing the need for real-valued or approx-
imate arithmetic. Later in this work we will restrict ourselves to integer-valued
quadratic forms.
Weaker Equivalence (Genus). The study of integral equivalence of quadratic
forms is classically approached via weaker notions, namely, equivalence over
larger rings [9, Chapter 15, Sec 4]. In particular, we shall consider the rational
equivalence class [Q]Q of all U tQU for U P GLn(Q), as well as the p-adic integer
equivalence class [Q]Zp of all U tQU for U P GLn(Zp). These equivalences are
coarser than integral equivalence: [Q] Рђю [QРђ▓] РЄњ[Q]Q Рђю [QРђ▓]Q and [Q]Zp Рђю [QРђ▓]Zp.
These data ([Q]Q, ([Q]Zp)p) about a quadratic form are called the genus of the
quadratic form.
One could also consider equivalence over the reals R, or over the p-adic ratio-
nals Qp. By a local-global principle (Minkowski-Hasse Theorem [42, Thm. 9, pp.
44]) these data are redundant with the rational class [Q]Q.
The Lattice Isomorphism Problem, Quadratic Form Formulation. The Lattice
Isomorphism Problem can now be restated. We start by properly de№гЂning the
worst-case problems, in both a search and distinguishing variant.
De№гЂnition 2.2 (wc-sLIPQ). For a quadratic form Q
P
S─Ё0
n
the problem
wc-sLIPQ is, given any quadratic form QРђ▓ P [Q], to №гЂnd a unimodular U P GLn(Z)
such that QРђ▓ Рђю U tQU.
Note that the problem is equivalent to the original LIP problem as we can still
extract an orthonormal transformation by computing O Рђю BРђ▓(BU)┬┤1. Moreover,
the automorphism group Aut(Q) :Рђю {V P GLn(Z) : V tQV Рђю Q} is №гЂnite, and
for any solution U P GLn(Z) to wc-sLIPQ such that QРђ▓ Рђю U tQU, the full set of
solutions is given by {V U : V P Aut(Q)}.
We also consider a distinguishing variant of LIP, denoted wc-╬ћLIP. It is not
to be confused with the decisional version of LIP (which we will refer to as
dLIP).4
4 In dLIPQ0 one is given an arbitrary QРђ▓ and must decide whether QРђ▓ belongs to [Q0].
The distinguishing version is potentially easier in that QРђ▓ is promised to belong to
either [Q0] or [Q1] for some known №гЂxed [Q1].

650
L. Ducas and W. van Woerden
De№гЂnition 2.3 (wc-╬ћLIPQ0,Q1). For two quadratic forms Q0, Q1 P S─Ё0
n
the
problem wc-╬ћLIPQ0,Q1 is, given any quadratic form QРђ▓ P [Qb] where b P {0, 1}
is a uniform random bit, to №гЂnd b.
Because (part of) the genus is e№гЃciently computable (see Sect. 7), we will
make sure that [Q0]R Рђю [Q1]R for all relevant ring extensions R P {Q, R, Qp, Zp}.
Hardness Statements. When we discuss the hardness of LIP problems, we will
implicitly assume that we are not talking of a single quadratic form Q (or of
a single pair (Q0, Q1) for ╬ћLIP), but of a family (Qn)n (or a family of pairs
(Q0,n, Q1,n)n for ╬ћLIP) where n ranges over an in№гЂnite set of positive integer.
2.3
Discrete Gaussians and Sampling
Discrete Gaussian sampling has been fundamental to the development of lat-
tice based cryptography, by allowing to return short or nearby lattice vectors
without leaking information about the secret key [12]. We rephrase the relevant
de№гЂnitions and propositions in the quadratic form language.
Distribution. For any quadratic form Q P S─Ё0
n
we de№гЂne the Gaussian function
on Rn with parameter s ─Ё 0 and center c P Rn by
Рѕђx P Rn, ¤ЂQ,s,c(x) :Рђю exp(┬┤¤ђ РѕЦx ┬┤ cРѕЦ2
Q /s2).
The discrete Gaussian distribution is obtained by restricting the continuous
Gaussian distribution to a discrete lattice. In the quadratic form setting the dis-
crete lattice will always be Zn, but with the geometry induced by the quadratic
form. For any quadratic form Q P S─Ё0
n
we de№гЂne the discrete Gaussian distribu-
tion DQ,s,c with center c P Rn and parameter s ─Ё 0 by
Pr
XРѕ╝DQ,s,c [X Рђю x] :Рђю ¤ЂQ,s,c(x)
¤ЂQ,s,c(Zn) if x P Zn, and 0 otherwise.
If the center c is not denoted we have c Рђю 0. An important property of the dis-
crete gaussian distribution is the smoothing parameter, i.e. how much gaussian
noise s ─Ё 0 is needed to Рђўsmooth outРђЎ the discrete structure.
De№гЂnition 2.4 (Smoothing Parameter). For a quadratic form Q P S─Ё0
n
and
¤х ─Ё 0 we de№гЂne the smoothing parameter ╬и¤х(Q) as the minimal s ─Ё 0 such that
¤ЂQ┬┤1,1/s(Zn) РЕй1 ` ¤х.
The smoothing parameter is a central quantity for gaussians over lattice, for
example it permits to control the variations of ¤ЂQ,s,c(Zn) is over all centers c.
Lemma 2.5 ([29]). For any quadratic form Q P S─Ё0
n , ¤х ─Ё 0, center c P Rn and
parameter s ─Ё ╬и¤х(Q) we have:

On LIP, Quadratic Forms, Remarkable Lattices, and Cryptography
651
(1 ┬┤ ¤х)
sn

det(Q)
РЕй¤ЂQ,s,c(Zn) РЕй(1 ` ¤х)
sn

det(Q)
.
Note that the smoothing parameter ╬и¤х(Q) is an invariant property of the simi-
larity class [Q], and so we might also denote ╬и¤х([Q]) for a similarity class. While
computing or even approximating the exact smoothing parameter is hard, we
can obtain su№гЃcient bounds via the dual form.
Lemma 2.6 (Smoothing bound [29]). For any quadratic form Q P S─Ё0
n
we
have ╬и2┬┤n(Q) РЕйРѕџn/╬╗1(Q┬┤1) and ╬и¤х(Q) РЕйРѕЦBРѕЌ
QРѕЦ┬и

ln(2n(1 ` 1/¤х))/¤ђ for ¤х ─Ё 0.
Above the smoothing parameter the discrete gaussian distribution is in some
sense Рђўwell behavedРђЎ and we have the following tailbound that one would expect
from a Gaussian distribution.
Lemma 2.7 (Tailbound [30, Lemma 4.4]). For any quadratic form Q P S─Ё0
n ,
¤х P (0, 1), center c P Rn and parameter s РЕЙ╬и¤х(Q), we have
Pr
xРѕ╝DQ,s,c[РѕЦx ┬┤ cРѕЦQ ─Ё sРѕџn] РЕй1 ` ¤х
1 ┬┤ ¤х ┬и 2┬┤n.
A constant factor above the smoothing parameter we can furthermore lower
bound the min-entropy of the distribution.
Lemma 2.8 (Min-entropy [35]).
For any quadratic form Q P S─Ё0
n , positive
¤х ─Ё 0, center c P Rn, parameter s РЕЙ2╬и¤х(Q), and for every x P Zn, we have
Pr
XРѕ╝DQ,s,c [X Рђю x] РЕй1 ` ¤х
1 ┬┤ ¤х ┬и 2┬┤n.
Gaussian Sampling. While the discrete Gaussian distribution already is an
important theoretical tool, for many practical purposes we want to actually
sample (close to) the distribution in an e№гЃcient manner. In their breakthrough
work Gentry et al. [12] showed that KleinРђЎs [19] randomized BabaiРђЎs nearest plane
algorithm does exactly that. Given a lattice basis one can sample statistically
close to the discrete Gaussian distribution with parameters depending on the
shortness of the (Gram-Schmidt) basis; a better reduced basis allows for a lower
Gaussian width s. To simplify later proofs we use an exact sampling algorithm
by Brakerski et al. [7].
Lemma 2.9 (Discrete Sampling [7, Lemma 2.3]). There is a polynomial-
time algorithm DiscreteSample(Q, s, c) that given a quadratic form Q P S─Ё0
n ,
center c P Rn, and a parameter s РЕЙРѕЦBРѕЌ
QРѕЦ┬и

ln(2n ` 4)/¤ђ, returns a sample
distributed as DQ,s,c.

652
L. Ducas and W. van Woerden
2.4
Randomness Extractors
A randomness extractor allows, using a publicly known random seed, to con-
vert a non-uniform randomness source X with high min-entropy HРѕъ(X) :Рђю
┬┤ log2(maxx Pr[X Рђю x]) to a near-uniform random variable [3,15].5
De№гЂnition 2.10 (Extractor). An e№гЃcient function E : X ╦є {0, 1}z Рєњ{0, 1}v
is an (m, ¤х)-extractor, if, for all random variable X distributed over X and
HРѕъ(X) РЕЙm, it holds that
╬ћ

(Z, E(X, Z)), (Z, V )

РЕй¤х
where the seed Z ├љ U({0, 1}z) and V ├љ U({0, 1}v) are drawn uniformly at
random, and independently of X.
When instantiating our scheme, we will rely on the existence of an (m, ¤х)-
extractor with parameters m Рђю ╬ў(v) and ¤х Рђю 2┬┤╬ў(m).
3
LIP and Self-reducibility
In this section we lay the foundation for using the Lattice Isomorphism Problem
in cryptography. We present an average-case distribution for any quadratic form
equivalence class, show how to sample from it, and conclude with a worst-case
to average-case reduction. Note that the worst-case to average-case reduction is
realized within an equivalence class.
3.1
An Average-Case Distribution
First we de№гЂne our average-case distribution within an equivalence class [Q],
which can be seen as an extension of the techniques used by Haviv and Regev
[17] to show that LIP lies in SZK. While in their work they use a discrete
Gaussian sampler [12] to sample a generating set of the lattice, we extend this
by a linear algebra step that returns a canonically distributed lattice basisРђћor
in our case a quadratic form.
A posteriori, this algorithm appears very similar to the heuristic approach
of [6], but the use of Gaussian sampling formally guarantees that the output
distribution solely depends on the lattice and not on the speci№гЂc input basisРђћor
in our case, depends only on the class of the input quadratic form.
First we consider the linear algebra step, that given a quadratic form and
short linearly independent vectors, returns a well reduced equivalent form.
Lemma 3.1 (Adapted from [27, Lemma 7.1]). There is a polynomial time
algorithm (R, U) РєљExtract(Q, Y ) that on input a quadratic form Q, and
linearly independent vectors Y Рђю (y1, . . . , yn) P Zn╦єn, outputs a transforma-
tion U P GLn(Z) and a quadratic form R Рђю U tQU equivalent to Q such that
РѕЦBРѕЌ
RРѕЦРЕйmaxi РѕЦyiРѕЦQ.
5 For our application, we do not need to relax the source to only have average min-
entropy, and therefore work with the simpler worst-case version.

On LIP, Quadratic Forms, Remarkable Lattices, and Cryptography
653
Proof. First let U P GLn(Z) be the unique transformation such that T Рђю U ┬┤1Y
is the canonical upper-diagonal Hermite Normal Form of Y . Let R Рђю U tQU
and note that R is equivalent to Q. Denote the column vectors of U by
u1, . . . , un. Because T is upper triangular and in Hermite Normal Form we have
yi Рђю i
jРђю1 Tj,iuj, where Tj,j РЕЙ1. In particular we have that span(y1, . . . , yk) Рђю
span(u1, . . . , uk). Let yРѕЌ
i and uРѕЌ
i be the i-th Gram-Schmidt vector of Y and U
respectively w.r.t. Q. Note that yРѕЌ
i Рђю Ti,i ┬и uРѕЌ
i , and thus РѕЦuРѕЌ
i РѕЦQ Рђю РѕЦyРѕЌ
i РѕЦQ /Ti,i РЕй
РѕЦyРѕЌ
i РѕЦQ РЕйРѕЦyiРѕЦQ. We conclude by РѕЦBРѕЌ
RРѕЦРђю maxi РѕЦuРѕЌ
i РѕЦQ РЕйmaxi РѕЦyiРѕЦQ .
РіЊРіћ
For our №гЂnal distribution to be well de№гЂned we need that the extracted quadratic
form only depends on the geometry of the input vectors, and not on the particular
representative Q.
Lemma 3.2 (Independence of representative).
Let y1, . . . , yn P Zn be
linearly independent. If (R, U) РєљExtract(Q, Y ), and for some unimodular
V P GLn(Z) we have (RРђ▓, U Рђ▓) РєљExtract(V tQV, V ┬┤1Y ), then RРђ▓ Рђю R, and
U Рђ▓ Рђю V ┬┤1 ┬и U.
Proof. From the canonicity of the Hermite Normal Form we immediately obtain
that (U Рђ▓)┬┤1V ┬┤1Y Рђю T Рђю U ┬┤1Y , and thus U Рђ▓ Рђю V ┬┤1 ┬и U. It follows that RРђ▓ Рђю
(V ┬┤1 ┬и U)tV tQV (V ┬┤1 ┬и U) Рђю U tQU Рђю R.
РіЊРіћ
Now we can formally de№гЂne our average-case distribution for a parameter s ─Ё 0.
De№гЂnition 3.3. Given a quadratic form equivalence class [Q] ─ѓ S─Ё0
n
we de№гЂne
the Gaussian form distribution Ds([Q]) over [Q] with parameter s ─Ё 0 algorith-
mically as follows:
1. Fix a representative Q P [Q].
2. Sample n vectors (y1, . . . , yn) Рђю: Y from DQ,s. Repeat until linearly indepen-
dent.
3. (R, U) РєљExtract(Q, Y ).
4. Return R.
By Lemma 3.2 the output is independent of the chosen representative and thus
the distribution is well-de№гЂned.
Given the algorithmic de№гЂnition of Ds([Q]), an actual e№гЃcient sampling algo-
rithm follows with only a few adaptations. Firstly, we need to e№гЃciently sample
from DQ,s which puts some constraints on the parameter s depending on the
reducedness of the representative Q. Secondly the probability that n sampled
vectors are linearly independent can be quite small, instead we sample vectors
one by one and only add them to our set Y if they are independent. Still we
require the additional constraint s РЕЙ╬╗n(Q) to show that this succeeds with a
polynomial amount of samples.
Lemma 3.4. For any quadratic form Q P S─Ё0
n (Z), and parameter
s РЕЙmax{╬╗n(Q), РѕЦBРѕЌ
QРѕЦ┬и

ln(2n ` 4)/¤ђ},

654
L. Ducas and W. van Woerden
Algorithm 1: Sampling from Ds([Q]).
Data: A quadratic form Q P S─Ё0
n (Zn), and a parameter
s РЕЙmax{╬╗n(Q), РѕЦBРѕЌ
QРѕЦ┬и

ln(2n ` 4)/¤ђ}.
Result: Sample R Рђю U tQU from Ds([Q]), with a transformation U P GLn(Z).
Y ├љ H;
while |Y | ─Ѓ n do
x ├љ DQ,s ;
// Using Lemma 2.9
if x R span(Y ) then
Append x to Y ;
end
end
(R, U) ├љ Extract(Q, Y );
Algorithm 1 runs in expected polynomial time and returns (R, U) where R is
a sample from Ds([Q]), and a unimodular U P GLn(Z) such that R Рђю U tQU.
Furthermore, the isomorphism U is uniform over the set of isomorphisms from
Q to R.
Proof. By Lemmas 2.9 and 3.1 every step in Algorithm 1 runs in polynomial
time. What remains is to show that the number of iterations is polynomially
bounded. Let the random variable K be the number of samples before we №гЂnd n
independent ones. If |Y | ─Ѓ n, then because s РЕЙ╬╗n(Q) we have by [17, Lemma
5.1] that every newly sampled vector x РєљDQ,s is not in the span of Y with
constant probability at least C :Рђю 1 ┬┤ (1 ` e┬┤¤ђ)┬┤1 ─Ё 0. So K is bounded from
above by a negative binomial distribution for n successes with success probability
C, which implies that E[K] РЕйn
C , and in particular that Pr[K ─Ё n2] РЕйe┬┤╬Е(n2).
When the while loop succeeds the set Y is distributed as n vectors sampled from
DQ,s under the linear independence condition, following exactly De№гЂnition 3.3.
Suppose that the algorithm runs and №гЂnishes with a №гЂnal spanning set Y ,
and returning (R, U) ├љ Extract(Q, Y ). For any automorphism V P Aut(Q), i.e.
such that V tQV Рђю Q, it would have been just as likely that the №гЂnal spanning
set equalled V Y , because the samples from DQ,s only depend on the norm of
the vectors w.r.t. Q. Then by Lemma 3.2 we have:
Extract(Q, V Y ) Рђю Extract((V ┬┤1)tQV ┬┤1, V Y ) Рђю (R, V U),
and thus the algorithm would have returned V U with the same probability as U,
which makes the returned transformation uniform over the set of isomorphisms
{V U : V P Aut(Q)} from Q to R.
РіЊРіћ
For (exponentially) large parameters s we can always e№гЃciently sample from
the average-case distribution by №гЂrst LLL-reducing the representative.
Lemma 3.5. Given any quadratic form Q P S─Ё0
n (Z) we can sample from
Ds([Q]) in polynomial time for s РЕЙ2╬ў(n) ┬и ╬╗n([Q]).

On LIP, Quadratic Forms, Remarkable Lattices, and Cryptography
655
Proof. Run the LLL algorithm on Q to obtain a representative QРђ▓ P [Q] for
which РѕЦBРѕЌ
QРђ▓РѕЦРЕй2╬ў(n) ┬и ╬╗n([Q]). Then apply Lemma 3.4.
РіЊРіћ
Lemma 3.6. For any quadratic form Q P S─Ё0
n , parameter ¤х P (0, 1), and s РЕЙ
max{╬╗n(Q), ╬и¤х(Q)}, we have
Pr
QРђ▓Рѕ╝Ds([Q])[РѕЦBРѕЌ
QРђ▓РѕЦ─Ё sРѕџn] РЕй1 ` ¤х
1 ┬┤ ¤х ┬и 25n ┬и 2┬┤n.
Proof. Given linearly independent vectors Y Рђю {y1, . . . , yn} P Zn the extractor
returns a quadratic form QРђ▓ such that РѕЦBРѕЌ
QРђ▓РѕЦРЕйmaxi РѕЦyiРѕЦQ and thus we can
just focus on the norms РѕЦyiРѕЦQ. Let the random variable K be the number of
samples x1, . . . , xK РєљDQ,s before we №гЂnd n independent ones. By Lemma 2.7
we have РѕЦxiРѕЦ─Ё sРѕџn with probability at most (1 ` ¤х)/(1 ┬┤ ¤х) ┬и 2┬┤n. By the proof
of Lemma 3.4 we have E[K] РЕйn
C РЕй25n, and by a union bound we conclude:
Pr

max
i
РѕЦyiРѕЦQ ─Ё sРѕџn

Рђю
Рѕъ

kРђюn
Pr[K Рђю k] Pr
	
max
1РЕйiРЕйk РѕЦxiРѕЦQ ─Ё sРѕџn

РЕй
Рѕъ

kРђюn
Pr[K Рђю k] ┬и k



E[K]
┬и1 ` ¤х
1 ┬┤ ¤х ┬и 2┬┤n РЕйn
C ┬и 1 ` ¤х
1 ┬┤ ¤х ┬и 2┬┤n.
РіЊРіћ
3.2
Average Case LIP
The above de№гЂnition of a distribution over a class which is e№гЃciently sampleable
from any representative of that class leads us to a natural average-case version
of both version of LIP. It is parametrized by a width parameter s ─Ё 0.
De№гЂnition 3.7 (ac-sLIPQ
s ). For a quadratic form Q P S─Ё0
n
and s ─Ё 0 the prob-
lem ac-sLIPQ
s is, given a quadratic form sampled as QРђ▓ ├љ Ds([Q]), to №гЂnd a
unimodular U P GLn(Z) such that QРђ▓ Рђю U tQU.
De№гЂnition 3.8 (ac-╬ћLIPQ0,Q1
s
). For two quadratic forms Q0, Q1 P S─Ё0
n
and
s ─Ё 0 the problem ac-╬ћLIPQ0,Q1
s
is, given a quadratic form sampled as QРђ▓ ├љ
Ds([Qb]) where b P {0, 1} is a uniform random bit, to №гЂnd b.
Trivially the average-case variants can be reduced to their respective worst-
case variants. In the following section we show that the reverse is also true.
3.3
A Worst-Case to Average-Case Reduction
In general lattice problems become easier when given a short basis; and
harder when given a long basis. Similarly one would expect that ac-sLIPQ
s and
ac-╬ћLIPQ0,Q1
s
become harder when the parameter s ─Ё 0 increases. In fact when
s is large enough the average-case problem becomes at least as hard as any worst-
case instance; making the average-case and worst-case problems equivalent.

656
L. Ducas and W. van Woerden
Lemma 3.9 (ac-sLIPQ
s РЕЙwc-sLIPQ for large s). Given an oracle that solves
ac-sLIPQ
s for some s РЕЙ2╬ў(n) ┬и ╬╗n(Q) in time T0 with probability ¤х ─Ё 0, we can
solve wc-sLIPQ with probability at least ¤х in time T Рђю T0 ` poly(n, log s).
Proof. Given any QРђ▓ P [Q], apply Lemma 3.5 to sample QРђ▓Рђ▓ РєљDs([Q]) for
some s РЕЙ2O(n) ┬и ╬╗n([Q]), together with a U Рђ▓Рђ▓ such that QРђ▓Рђ▓ Рђю U Рђ▓Рђ▓tQРђ▓U Рђ▓Рђ▓. Note
that Ds([Q]) Рђю Ds([QРђ▓]); we can therefore apply our ac-sLIPQ
s -oracle to QРђ▓Рђ▓ and
obtain U P GLn(Z) such that QРђ▓Рђ▓ Рђю U tQU. Now for U Рђ▓ :Рђю UU Рђ▓Рђ▓┬┤1 P GLn(Z) we
have:
U Рђ▓tQU Рђ▓ Рђю (U Рђ▓Рђ▓┬┤1)tU tQUU Рђ▓Рђ▓┬┤1 Рђю (U Рђ▓Рђ▓┬┤1)tQРђ▓Рђ▓U Рђ▓Рђ▓┬┤1 Рђю QРђ▓.
So given an ac-sLIPQ
s -oracle we can solve wc-sLIPQ.
РіЊРіћ
To allow for more e№гЃcient schemes we would like to decrease the parameter s ─Ё 0
in the worst-case to average-case reduction. We can do so at the cost of stronger
lattice reduction than LLL.
Lemma 3.10. Given an oracle that solves ac-sLIPQ
s for some s РЕЙ╬╗n(Q) in
time T0 with probability ¤х ─Ё 0, we can solve wc-sLIPQ with probability at least 1
2
in time
T Рђю 1
¤х (T0 ` poly(n, log s)) ` C

n,
s
╬╗n(Q) ┬и

ln(2n ` 4)/¤ђ

,
where C(n, f) is the cost of solving the Shortest Independent Vector Problem
(SIVP, [39]) within an approximation factor of f.
Proof. The f-approx-SIVP oracle returns n linearly independent vectors of norm
at most f ┬и ╬╗n(Q), and thus using Lemma 3.1 we can construct an equivalent
form QРђ▓ P [Q] with РѕЦBРѕЌ
QРђ▓РѕЦРЕйf ┬и ╬╗n(Q). For f :Рђю s/(╬╗n(Q) ┬и

ln(2n ` 4)/¤ђ) we
obtain that s РЕЙРѕЦBРѕЌ
QРђ▓РѕЦ┬и

ln(2n ` 4)/¤ђ, and thus we can sample e№гЃciently from
Ds([Q]). The rest of the proofs follows similar to that of Lemma 3.9. Additionally
the reduction succeeds with some probability ¤х ─Ё 0, so we need to repeat it 1
¤х
times to obtain a success probability of at least 1
2. Note that each additional
sample can be computed in polynomial time from the same representative QРђ▓. РіЊРіћ
Remark 3.11. Note that the overhead is entirely additive, in particular it does
not su№гђer from the 1
¤х ampli№гЂcation. So, while the reduction is not polynomial
time, concretely, one can a№гђord huge overheads; for example an overhead of 2100
would barely a№гђect a underlying hardness of 2128 as 2128 ┬┤ 2100 Рђю 2127.999....
This situation is quite di№гђerent from the usual inne№гЃcient reductions found in
the literature, where the overhead is multiplicative.
In Lemma 3.10, the SIVP oracle can be instantiated by a variant of the BKZ
algorithm [40]. With a sub-linear blocksize of ╬▓ :Рђю n/ log(n) we could decrease
s to a quasi-polynomial factor exp(log2(n)) ┬и ╬╗n(Q), with only a sub-exponential
additive cost to the reduction. For security based on exponential hardness (e.g.
T0/¤х Рђю exp(╬Е(n))) this would still be meaningful, while maintaining a poly-
logarithmic bitlength for the integer entries of the manipulated matrices.

On LIP, Quadratic Forms, Remarkable Lattices, and Cryptography
657
Going down to polynomial factors s Рђю poly(n) ┬и ╬╗n(Q) (and hence single
logarithmic integer bitlength) would require a linear blocksize ╬▓ :Рђю ╬ў(n), and
an exponential cost 2cn. For small constants c ─Ё 0 such that cn is smaller than the
security parameter the reduction would still be meaningful. However for provable
algorithms this constant c is rather large, and the gap between provable [1] and
heuristic results [4] is signi№гЂcant. As we want to keep our reduction non-heuristic
in this initial work, we will leave this regime for further research.
Using a similar strategy, one can also establish a worst-case to average-case
reduction for ╬ћLIP. Note that, because it is a distinguishing problem, the advan-
tage ampli№гЂcation now requires O(1/╬▒2) calls to the average-case oracle.
Lemma 3.12 (ac-╬ћLIPQ0,Q1
s
РЕЙwc-╬ћLIPQ0,Q1 for large s). Given an oracle
that solves ac-╬ћLIPQ0,Q1
s
for some s РЕЙ2╬ў(n) ┬и max{╬╗n(Q0), ╬╗n(Q1)} in time T0
with advantage ╬▒ ─Ё 0, we can solve wc-╬ћLIPQ0,Q1 with advantage ╬▒ in time
T ` poly(n, log s).
Lemma 3.13. Given an oracle that solves ac-╬ћLIPQ0,Q1
s
in time T0 for some
s РЕЙmax{╬╗n(Q0), ╬╗n(Q1)} with advantage ╬▒ ─Ё 0, we can solve wc-╬ћLIPQ0,Q1
with advantage at least 1
4 in time
T Рђю 1
╬▒2 (T0 ` poly(n, log s)) ` C

n,
s
max{╬╗n(Q0), ╬╗n(Q1)} ┬и

ln(2n ` 4)/¤ђ

,
where C(n, f) is the cost of solving the Shortest Independent Vector Problem
(SIVP, [39]) within an approximation factor of f.
4
Zero Knowledge Proof of Knowledge
At high level, the protocol of Haviv and Regev [17], as well as ours, is very
similar to protocols for other types of isomorphisms, in particular protocols for
graph ismorphism [14] and for code isomorphism [5].
A notable di№гђerence however, is that both these protocols [5,14] relied on the
action of a №гЂnite group (permutations), allowing to show zero-knowledgness by
uniformity of the distribution over an orbit. In our case, the group acting GLn(Z)
is not №гЂnite, and not even compact, admitting no such uniform distribution. It
is perhaps surprising to see that uniformity is in fact not required.
4.1
The ╬Б-Protocol
E№гЃciency and Completeness. For e№гЃciency of ╬Б we have to check that Algo-
rithm 1 runs in polynomial time, and indeed by Lemma 3.4 this is the case
because
s РЕЙmax

╬╗n([Q0]), РѕЦBРѕЌ
Q0РѕЦ┬и

ln(2n ` 4)/¤ђ

.

658
L. Ducas and W. van Woerden
Zero Knowledge Proof of Knowledge ╬Б
Consider two equivalent public quadratic forms Q0, Q1 P S─Ё0
n (Z) and a secret uni-
modular U P GLn(Z) such that Q1 Рђю U tQ0U. Given the public parameter
s РЕЙmax

╬╗n([Q0]), max

РѕЦBРѕЌ
Q0РѕЦ, РѕЦBРѕЌ
Q1РѕЦ

┬и

ln(2n ` 4)/¤ђ

,
we de№гЂne the following protocol ╬Б that gives a zero-knowledge proof of knowledge of
an isomorphism between Q0 and Q1:
Prover
Veri№гЂer
Sample QРђ▓ ├љ Ds([Q0]) by Alg. 1,
together with V s.t. QРђ▓ Рђю V tQ0V
QРђ▓
┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤Рєњ
Sample c ├љ U({0, 1})
Compute W Рђю U ┬┤c ┬и V
c
Рєљ┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤
W
┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤┬┤Рєњ
Check if W P GLn(Z),
and QРђ▓ Рђю W tQcW.
For the veri№гЂcation we have that W P GLn(Z) if and only if W is integral and
det(W) Рђю ┬▒1, both of which are easy to check in polynomial time.
For the completeness of ╬Б note that when the prover executes the protocol
honestly we have W :Рђю U ┬┤c ┬иV P GLn(Z) because U and V are both unimodular
by de№гЂnition. Additionally we have
QРђ▓ Рђю V tQ0V Рђю (V t(U ┬┤c)t)



W t
((U c)tQ0U c)



Qc
(U ┬┤cV )
  
W
Рђю W tQcW,
and thus the veri№гЂer accepts.
Special Soundness. Suppose we have two accepting conversations (QРђ▓, 0, W0) and
(QРђ▓, 1, W1) of ╬Б where the №гЂrst message is identical. The acceptance implies that
W0, W1 P GLn(Z) and W t
0Q0W0 Рђю QРђ▓ Рђю W t
1Q1W1, and thus U Рђ▓ :Рђю W0W ┬┤1
1
P
GLn(Z) gives an isomorphism from Q0 to Q1 as
U Рђ▓tQ0U Рђ▓ Рђю (W ┬┤1
1 )t(W t
0Q0W0)W ┬┤1
1
Рђю (W ┬┤1
1 )t(W t
1Q1W1)W ┬┤1
1
Рђю Q1.
We conclude that ╬Б has the special soundness property.
Special Honest-Veri№гЂer Zero-Knowledge. We create a simulator that given the
public input Q0, Q1 outputs an accepting conversation with the same probability
distribution as between a honest prover and veri№гЂer. Note that the №гЂrst message
QРђ▓ is always distributed as Ds([Q0]), the challenge c as U({0, 1}), and V is
uniform over the set of isomorphisms from Q0 to QРђ▓ by Lemma 3.4. Because U
is an isomorphism from Q0 to Q1 we have, given the challenge c, that W Рђю U ┬┤c┬иV
is uniform over the set of isomorphisms from Qc to QРђ▓.
To simulate this we №гЂrst sample the uniformly random challenge c ├љ
U({0, 1}). If c Рђю 0 we can proceed the same as in ╬Б itself, e.g. sample

On LIP, Quadratic Forms, Remarkable Lattices, and Cryptography
659
QРђ▓ ├љ Ds([Q0]) using Algorithm 1, together with a V such that QРђ▓ Рђю V tQ0V ,
and set W :Рђю V . The №гЂnal conversation (QРђ▓, 0, W) is accepting and follows by
construction the same distribution as during an honest execution conditioned on
challenge c Рђю 0.
If c Рђю 1 we use the fact that [Q0] Рђю [Q1], and that we can use Algorithm 1
with representative Q1 as input instead of Q0. So again we obtain QРђ▓ ├љ
Ds([Q1]) Рђю Ds([Q0]) following the same distribution, but now together with a
unimodular W P GLn(Z) such that QРђ▓ Рђю W tQ1W. The conversation (QРђ▓, 1, W) is
accepting by construction, and QРђ▓ follows the same distribution Ds([Q0]). Addi-
tionally by Lemma 3.4 the transformation W is indeed uniform over the set of
isomorphisms from Q1 to QРђ▓.
We conclude that ╬Б has the special honest-veri№гЂer zero-knowledge property.
4.2
Identi№гЂcation Scheme
The Zero Knowledge Proof of Knowledge in the previous section is worst-case
in the sense that given any two equivalent forms Q0, Q1 P S─Ё0
n (Z) and a secret
isomorphism U P GLn(Z) from Q0 to Q1 we can show knowledge of such an iso-
morphism. However to turn this ╬Б-protocol into an Identi№гЂcation Scheme (see
e.g. [10]) we need to de№гЂne a distribution of U P GLn(Z) (or alternatively of
Q1 w.r.t Q0). Finding an isomorphism between Q0 and Q1 is at most as hard
as solving either ac-sLIPQ0
s
or ac-sLIPQ1
s
for parameter s as in ╬Б. Therefore a
natural choice is to have Q1 distributed according to DsРђ▓([Q0]) for some parame-
ter sРђ▓ РЕЙmax{╬╗n([Q0]), РѕЦBРѕЌ
Q0РѕЦ┬и

ln(2n ` 4)/¤ђ}, which we can e№гЃciently sample
from using Algorithm 1. The security of our identi№гЂcation scheme is then solely
based on the hardness of ac-sLIPQ0
sРђ▓ .
5
Key Encapsulation Mechanism
In this section we construct a Key Encapsulation Mechanism (KEM) with a secu-
rity proof based on the hardness of ╬ћLIP. In short we will need a quadratic form
S along with an e№гЃcient decoder up to some radius ¤Ђ ─Ѓ ╬╗1(S)/2. The public key
will consist of a long equivalent form P :Рђю U tSU РєљDs([S]), while the unimod-
ular transformation U will be the secret key. Knowledge of the transformation U
allows to decode w.r.t. P via S; without any loss in decoding performance. The
key will be a random error e of norm РѕЦeРѕЦP РЕй¤Ђ, and it can be encapsulated as
the syndrome e :Рђю e mod Zn P [0, 1)n. The receiver with knowledge of the secret
transformation U can recover e by decoding via S. The correctness follows from
the fact that the decoding is unique due to ¤Ђ ─Ѓ ╬╗1(S)/2.
For the security we assume that it is (computationally) hard to di№гђerentiate
between P ├љ Ds([S]) and some random sample R ├љ Ds([Q]) from a special
class [Q], a class corresponding to a lattice admitting a dense sublattice. This
assumption allows us to replace P by R, which completely breaks the uniqueness
of the decoding. That is, the syndrome e has many (say exp ╬Е(╬╗)) nearby points
w.r.t. R, and retrieving the exact original point becomes statistically hard.

660
L. Ducas and W. van Woerden
Key Encapsulation Scheme
Let ¤Ђ ─Ѓ ╬╗1(S)/2 and let S P S─Ё0
n (Z) be a quadratic form with an e№гЃcient decoder
Decode with decoding radius ¤Ђ. Let E : 1
q Zn ╦є {0, 1}z Рєњ{0, 1}РёЊbe a (РёЊ, negl(n))-
extractor for some РёЊРђю ╬ў(n). Given the public parameters
s РЕЙmax{╬╗n(S), РѕЦBРѕЌ
SРѕЦ┬и

ln(2n ` 4)/¤ђ}, and
q :Рђю
s ┬и n
¤Ђ
┬и

ln(2n ` 4)/¤ђ

,
we de№гЂne the KEM K :Рђю (Gen, Encaps, Decaps) as follows:
РђЊ (pk, sk) РєљGen(1n): on input 1n do:
1. Sample P ├љ Ds([S]) using Alg. 1, together with U such that P Рђю U tSU.
2. Output (pk, sk) Рђю (P, U).
РђЊ (c, k) РєљEncaps(pk): on input 1n and a public key P Рђю pk do:
1. Sample e Рєљ1
q DP,q¤Ђ/Рѕџn P 1
q Zn using Lemma 2.9.
2. Compute c Рєљe mod Zn s.t. c P Tn
q Рђю {0, 1
q , . . . , q┬┤1
q }n.
3. Sample a random extractor seed Z ├љ {0, 1}z.
4. Compute k РєљE(e, Z).
5. Output (c, k) where c :Рђю (c, Z).
РђЊ k РєљDecaps(sk, c): on input c Рђю (c, Z) and a secret key U :Рђю sk do:
1. Compute y РєљDecode(S, Uc) s.t. РѕЦy ┬┤ UcРѕЦS РЕй¤Ђ,
output K on failure.
2. Compute k РєљE(c ┬┤ U ┬┤1y, Z).
3. Output k.
E№гЃciency and Correctness. We consider the e№гЃciency and correctness of the
KEM K :Рђю (Gen, Encaps, Decaps) instantiated with quadratic form S P
S─Ё0
n (Z) and public parameter
s РЕЙmax{╬╗n(S), РѕЦBРѕЌ
SРѕЦ┬и

ln(2n ` 4)/¤ђ}.
By the above constraint on s, Algorithm 1 will run in polynomial-time by
Lemma 3.4. Furthermore by Lemma 3.6 we have with overwhelming prob
ability that
q¤Ђ/Рѕџn РЕЙsРѕџn ┬и

ln(2n ` 4)/¤ђ РЕЙРѕЦBРѕЌ
P РѕЦ┬и

ln(2n ` 4)/¤ђ,
and thus we can e№гЃciently sample from DP,q¤Ђ/Рѕџn by Lemma 2.9.
For correctness note that in the key encapsulation algorithm the sampled
error e has norm at most РѕЦeРѕЦP РЕй¤Ђ except with negligible probability by Lemma
2.7, and we denote the encapsulated key by k :Рђю E(e, Z), where Z denotes the
randomness extractorРђЎs seed. Because ¤Ђ ─Ѓ ╬╗1(S)/2 the vector x :Рђю c ┬┤ e P Zn
is the unique closest vector to c with respect to P, which makes Ux the unique
closest vector to Uc with respect to S Рђю (U ┬┤1)tPU ┬┤1. In the decapsulation
the decoder computes the unique vector y at distance at most ¤Ђ from Uc, which
implies that y Рђю Ux. So indeed the output kРђ▓ :Рђю E(c┬┤U ┬┤1y, Z) Рђю E(c┬┤x, Z) Рђю
E(e, Z) Рђю k equals the encapsulated key with overwhelming probability.

On LIP, Quadratic Forms, Remarkable Lattices, and Cryptography
661
CPA Security. To show that our KEM is CPA-secure we fall back to a lossy trap-
door argument a la [36]. Under the hardness of decisional LIP we can replace our
unique ¤Ђ-decodable quadratic form by one that is far from uniquely decodable.
For the latter it is enough to have a dense sublattice.
Lemma 5.1. Let Q P S─Ё0
n (Z) be a quadratic form with a rank r sublattice
DZr ─ѓ Zn. For positive ¤х ─Ё 0, center c P Rn, parameter s :Рђю ¤Ђ/Рѕџn РЕЙ
2╬и¤х([DtQD]), and for every x P Zn we have
Pr
XРѕ╝DQ,s,c[X Рђю x] РЕй1 ` ¤х
1 ┬┤ ¤х ┬и 2┬┤r.
Proof. Let y :Рђю x ┬┤ c P Rn, and decompose y Рђю: yD ` yDK where yD P
span(DZr), and yDK is orthogonal to yD w.r.t Q. Then we have
Pr
XРѕ╝DQ,s,c[X Рђю x] Рђю ¤ЂQ,s,c(x)
¤ЂQ,s,c(Zn) Рђю
¤ЂQ,s(y)
¤ЂQ,s(y ` Zn) РЕй
¤ЂQ,s(y)
¤ЂQ,s(y ` DZr)
Рђю
¤ЂQ,s(yDK) ┬и ¤ЂQ,s(yD)
¤ЂQ,s(yDK) ┬и ¤ЂQ,s(yD ` DZr) Рђю
¤ЂQ,s(yD)
¤ЂQ,s(yD ` DZr).
Note that we can write yD Рђю Dz for some z P Rr, then the above equals
PrXРѕ╝DDtQD,s,z [X Рђю 0], which by Lemma 2.8 is bounded by 1`¤х
1┬┤¤х ┬и 2┬┤r.
РіЊРіћ
Theorem 5.2. We consider the KEM K :Рђю (Gen, Encaps, Decaps) instanti-
ated with quadratic form S P S─Ё0
n (Z), decoding radius ¤Ђ, and public key parameter
s ─Ё 0. Let Q P S─Ё0
n (Z) be a quadratic form with a dense rank r Рђю ╬ў(n) sub-
lattice DZr ─ѓ Zn, in particular such that ╬и 1
2 (DtQD) РЕй¤Ђ/(2Рѕџn). Then K is
CPA-secure if ac-╬ћLIPS,Q
s
is hard.
Proof. Let A be a probabilistic polynomial-time adversary. We present two
games Game1 and Game2, where Game1 is the regular CPA-security game
with the original scheme, and Game2 is almost identical but with the only
change that the public key is drawn from Ds([Q]) instead of Ds([S]). By the
hardness of ac-╬ћLIPS,Q
s
the two games are computationally indistinguishable,
and due to the dense sublattice we can conclude that winning Game2 with a
non-negligible advantage is statistically impossible.
Let the key-size РёЊРђю ╬ў(n) be such that РёЊРЕйr ┬┤ log2(3). The original KEM
CPA game Game1 is as follows [18]:
РђЊ Gen(1n) is run to obtain a public key pk Рђю P. Then Encaps(pk) is run to
generate (c, k) with k P {0, 1}РёЊ.
РђЊ A uniform bit b P {0, 1} is chosen. If b Рђю 0, set ╦єk :Рђю k, if b Рђю 1, choose a
uniform ╦єk P {0, 1}РёЊ.
РђЊ Given (pk, c Рђю (c, Z), ╦єk) the adversary A wins the experiment if b is guessed
correctly.
The only di№гђerence between Game1 and Game2 is that in Game2 we sample
the public key P from Ds([Q]) instead of Ds([S]). Note that Game1 and Game2

662
L. Ducas and W. van Woerden
both only use public information and thus by the hardness of ac-╬ћLIPS,Q
s
the
two are computationally indistinguishable by A.
Now we take a look at Game2. Consider the output (c Рђю (c, Z), k) Рєљ
Encaps(pk) where pk :Рђю QРђ▓ P [Q]. For any №гЂxed c we have by construction that
k :Рђю E(e, Z), where e Рєљ1
qDQРђ▓,q¤Ђ/Рѕџn under the condition that e Рђю c mod Zn.
Equivalently we could say that e Рєљc┬┤DQРђ▓,¤Ђ/Рѕџn,c, then by Lemma 5.1 we know
that e has a min-entropy of at least r┬┤log2(3) РЕЙl, and thus k :Рђю E(e, Z) P {0, 1}РёЊ
is negligibly close to uniform independent of c. So in Game2 we have that ╦єk is
negligibly close to uniform, independent of c and the choice of b P {0, 1}, making
it impossible for A to guess b with non-negligible advantage.
РіЊРіћ
6
Signature Scheme
Similar to the Key Encapsulation Mechanism we propose in this section a hash-
then-sign signature scheme based on ╬ћLIP. The main requirement is a quadratic
form S along with an e№гЃcient discrete Gaussian sampling algorithm of smallish
width ¤Ђ/Рѕџn РЕЙ╬и2┬┤╬ў(n)(S).
Again the public key will consist of some lesser reduced form P :Рђю U tSU Рєљ
Ds([S]) equivalent to S, where the unimodular transformation U is the secret
key. To sign a message we use a full domain hash to obtain a uniform coset
t ` Zn, the signature then consists of a nearby vector ¤Ѓ РєљDP,¤Ђ/Рѕџn,t w.r.t. the
form P. The nearby vector is obtained via S by the secret transformation U.
The security assumption is similar, but in some way dual to that of the
KEM. Again assume that it is computationally hard to di№гђerentiate between P
and some special class of forms [Q]; however in this case Q must admit a sparse
projection (equivalently, their dual should contain a dense lattice). The sparsity
implies that a uniformly random target t does not have a nearby vector with
overwhelming probability, making the signage vacuously hard.
Correctness. For correctness we mainly have to check that the returned signature
¤Ѓ P Zn is indeed close to t :Рђю H(m) w.r.t P. Because P Рђю U tSU we have:
РѕЦ¤Ѓ ┬┤ tРѕЦP Рђю РѕЦU(¤Ѓ ┬┤ t)РѕЦS Рђю РѕЦ¤ЃРђ▓ ┬┤ UtРѕЦS ,
and by Lemma 2.7 we have with overwhelming probability that РѕЦ¤Ѓ ┬┤ tРѕЦP Рђю
РѕЦ¤ЃРђ▓ ┬┤ UtРѕЦS РЕй¤Ђ/Рѕџn ┬и Рѕџn Рђю ¤Ђ, concluding the correctness.
Security. For the security proof we №гЂrst consider a class of quadratic forms for
which the signage is vacuously hard, e.g. for a random target t P Rn/Zn there
exists no nearby vector.
Lemma 6.1. Let Q P S─Ё0
n (Z) be a quadratic form with a dense rank k sublattice
DZk ─ѓ Zn, in particular such that ¤Ђ/
Рѕџ
k РЕй1/(
Рѕџ
8¤ђe┬иdet(DtQD)1/2k). Then for
the dual form Q┬┤1 we have
Pr
tРѕ╝U([0,1]n)[|(t ` Bn
Q┬┤1,¤Ђ) X Zn| РЕЙ1] РЕй2┬┤k.

On LIP, Quadratic Forms, Remarkable Lattices, and Cryptography
663
Signature Scheme
Let S
P
S─Ё0
n (Z) be a quadratic form together with a sampling algorithm
DiscreteSample that allows to sample statistically close to DP,¤Ђ/Рѕџn(t ` Zn) for
some parameter ¤Ђ/Рѕџn РЕЙ╬и2┬┤╬ў(n)([S]) and any target t P Tn
q . Let H : M РєњTn
q be a
full domain hash function (modeled as a random oracle). Given the public parameters
s РЕЙmax{╬╗n(S), РѕЦBРѕЌ
SРѕЦ┬и

ln(2n ` 4)/¤ђ}, and
q :Рђю
s ┬и n
¤Ђ
┬и

ln(2n ` 4)/¤ђ

,
we de№гЂne the signature scheme S :Рђю (Gen, Sign, Verify) as follows:
РђЊ (pk, sk) РєљGen(1n): on input 1n do:
1. Sample P ├љ Ds([S]) using Alg. 1, together with U s.t. P Рђю U tSU.
2. Output (pk, sk) Рђю (P, U) P S─Ё0
n (Z) ╦є GLn(Z).
РђЊ ¤Ѓ РєљSign(sk, m): on input a message m and a secret key U :Рђю sk do:
1. Compute t РєљH(m).
2. Sample ¤ЃРђ▓ РєљDS,¤Ђ/Рѕџn,Ut using DiscreteSample.
3. Compute ¤Ѓ РєљU ┬┤1¤ЃРђ▓.
4. Output ¤Ѓ P Zn.
РђЊ b :Рђю Verify(pk, m, ¤Ѓ): on input a public key P Рђю pk, a message m and a signature
¤Ѓ do:
1. Compute t РєљH(m).
2. If ¤Ѓ P Zn, and РѕЦt ┬┤ ¤ЃРѕЦP РЕй¤Ђ, output b Рђю 1.
3. Otherwise, output b Рђю 0.
Proof. Let V :Рђю span(D) ─ѓ Rn such that the orthogonal projection w.r.t. Q┬┤1
of Zn onto V de№гЂnes a projected lattice CZk :Рђю ¤ђQ┬┤1,V (Zn) of rank k, with
det(CtQ┬┤1C) РЕЙ1/ det(DtQD). Because a projection is non-increasing in length
we have
Pr
tРѕ╝U(Rn/Zn)[|(t ` Bn
Q┬┤1,¤Ђ) X Zn| РЕЙ1] РЕй
Pr
tРѕ╝U(Rk/Zk)[|(t ` Bk
CtQ┬┤1C,¤Ђ) X Zn| РЕЙ1] Рђю (РѕЌ).
Then using MarkovРђЎs inequality we can bound the above by
(РѕЌ) РЕйEtРѕ╝U(Rk/Zk)[|(t ` Bk
CtQ┬┤1C,¤Ђ) X Zn|] Рђю
VolCtQ┬┤1C(Bk
CtQ┬┤1C,¤Ђ)
VolCtQ┬┤1C(Rk/Zk)
РЕй(2¤ђe/k)k/2 ┬и ¤Ђk

det(CtQ┬┤1C)
РЕй2┬┤k.
РіЊРіћ
Theorem 6.2. We consider the signature scheme S :Рђю (Gen, Sign, Verify)
instantiated with quadratic form S P S─Ё0
n (Z), sampling parameter ¤Ђ, and pub-
lic key parameter s ─Ё 0. Let Q P S─Ё0
n (Z) be a quadratic form with a dense
rank k Рђю ╬ў(n) sublattice DZk
─ѓ Zn, in particular such that 2¤Ђ/
Рѕџ
k РЕй
(
Рѕџ
8¤ђe┬иdet(DtQDt)1/k)┬┤1. Then S is EUF-CMA secure if ac-╬ћLIPS,Q┬┤1
s
is hard.

664
L. Ducas and W. van Woerden
Proof. Let A be a probabilistic polynomial-time adversary. We present three
games Game1, Game2, Game3 where Game1 is the regular EUF-CMA game
with the original scheme, Game2 reprograms the random oracle to generate valid
signatures without knowledge of the secret key, and Game3 samples the public
key from [Q┬┤1] instead of [S]. By a standard smoothness argument the adversaryРђЎs
view of Game1 and Game2 is statistically indistinguishable, and Game2 and
Game3 are indistinguishable by the hardness of ac-╬ћLIPS,Q┬┤1
s
. Then we conclude
by Lemma 6.1 that the problem of forging a signature in Game3 is statistically
hard. The original EUF-CMA game Game1 is as follows [18]:
РђЊ Gen(1n) is run to obtain keys (pk Рђю P, sk Рђю U).
РђЊ Adversary A is given pk Рђю P and access to an oracle Sign(sk, ┬и). The adver-
sary then outputs (m, ¤Ѓ) where m was not queried before to the oracle.
РђЊ A succeeds if and only if Verify(pk, m, ¤Ѓ) Рђю 1.
To show that our signature scheme S is EUF-CMA secure we have to show that
Game1 succeeds only with negligible probability. We assume that the adversary
queries the oracle on l Рђю poly(n) distinct6 message m1, . . . , ml. In Game1 the
secret key is used to obtain a valid signature (mi, ¤Ѓi) where ¤Ѓi РєљDP,¤Ђ/Рѕџn,H(mi).
In Game2 instead we №гЂrst sample a random error ei Рєљ1
q ┬иDP,q¤Ђ/Рѕџn. By Lemma 3.6
we have q¤Ђ/Рѕџn РЕЙРѕЦBРѕЌ
P РѕЦ┬и

ln(2n ` 4)/¤ђ with overwhelming probability, and thus
by Lemma 2.9 we can do the sampling without using the secret key. Then we repro-
gram the random oracle such that H(mi) :Рђю ti Рђю e mod Zn P Tq, and return the
signature pair (mi, ¤Ѓi :Рђю ti ┬┤ei). Note that the probability that ti equals any tar-
get t P Tn
q is proportional to ¤ЂP,¤Ђ/Рѕџn,t(Zn). So ti is close to uniform by Lemma 2.5
because ¤Ђ/Рѕџn РЕЙ╬и2┬┤╬ў(n)([S]) Рђю ╬и2┬┤╬ў(n)([P]), and thus the random oracle is still
simulated correctly. Additionally the conditional probability of ¤Ѓi conditioned on
ti is exactly the same as in Game1, so we can conclude that Game1 and Game2
are statistically indistinguishable from the adversaryРђЎs point of view.
The only di№гђerence between Game2 and Game3 is that in Game3 we sam-
ple the public key P from Ds([Q┬┤1]) instead of Ds([S]). Note that Game2
and Game3 both only use public information and thus by the hardness of
ac-╬ћLIPS,Q┬┤1
s
the two are computationally indistinguishable.
To conclude note that for any message m we obtain a random target t :Рђю
H(m) P Tn
q . Let eРђ▓ be uniform over the Babai nearest plane region de№гЂned by P,
then РѕЦeРђ▓РѕЦP РЕй
Рѕџn
2 РѕЦBРѕЌ
P РѕЦ, and tРђ▓ :Рђю t ` 1
qeРђ▓ is uniform over Rn/Zn. By Lemma 6.1
the uniformly random target tРђ▓ lies at distance at least 2¤Ђ from Zn w.r.t. P with
overwhelming probability. So for t we have with overwhelming probability that:
distP (t, Zn) РЕЙdistP (tРђ▓, Zn) ┬┤

1
q eРђ▓

P
РЕЙ2¤Ђ ┬┤
Рѕџn ┬и РѕЦBРѕЌ
P РѕЦ
2q
РЕЙ2¤Ђ ┬┤ ¤Ђ/(2

ln(2n ` 4)/¤ђ) ─Ё ¤Ђ.
Therefore it is statistically impossible for the adversary to return a valid signa-
ture for m, and thus to win Game3.
РіЊРіћ
6 This can be enforced by salting messages or by derandomization.

On LIP, Quadratic Forms, Remarkable Lattices, and Cryptography
665
7
Cryptanalysis of LIP
Equivalent quadratic forms Q, QРђ▓ :Рђю U tQU (for some U P GLn(Z)) share many
common properties, and these invariants can be used to decide that two quadratic
forms cannot be equivalent, or can guide the search for an isomorphism.
7.1
Invariants
Arithmetic Invariants. Firstly we have det(U) Рђю ┬▒1, and thus for two equivalent
quadratic forms we have det(QРђ▓) Рђю det(U t) det(Q) det(U) Рђю det(Q). Secondly
because U and U ┬┤1 are both integral, the quantity gcd(Q) Рђю gcd{Qij : 1 РЕй
i, j РЕйn} is also an invariant.
A third and less obvious invariant is the parity of the quadratic form. The
notion is standard for unimodular lattices: it is called even if all norms are even,
and odd otherwise. More generally, writing РѕЦxРѕЦQ Рђю 
i Qiix2
i ` 2 
i─Ѓj xjQijxi
one gets that gcd{РѕЦxРѕЦQ : x P Zn} P {1, 2} ┬и gcd(Q). We call this factor par(Q) P
{1, 2} the parity of Q. It is also e№гЃciently computable by noting that par(Q) Рђю
gcd({Qii : 1 РЕйi РЕйn} Рѕф{2 gcd(Q)})/ gcd(Q).
Further arithmetic invariants are induced by R-equivalence of quadratic
forms for extensions R РіЃZ. The invariants for Q-equivalence can be decom-
posed via a local-global principle, namely the Hasse-Minkowski theorem [42,
Thm. 9, pp. 44]. Together with the discriminant, these invariants are complete
(they entirely determine quadratic forms up to Q-equivalence), and they can be
computed e№гЃciently. They consists of the signature, and the Cassel-Hasse invari-
ant at each prime p. The Sylvester signature (R-equivalence) is always (n, 0)
in our case as we are only considering positive quadratic forms. The Cassel-
Hasse invariant (Qp-invariance) for a prime p is given for a diagonal matrix
D Рђю diag(d1, . . . , dn) by
hp Рђю

i─Ѓj
(di, dj)p
(1)
where ( ┬и , ┬и )p denotes the Hilbert Symbol at p. Using LDLt decomposition
(Cholesky decomposition over the rationals), one can e№гЃciently compute Hasse
invariant for any positive quadratic form.
Similarly, there are also invariants induced by p-adic equivalence of quadratic
forms: QРђ▓ Рђю V tQV for V P GLn(Zp), see [9, Chap. 15, Sec 4.1].
All these arithmetic invariants provide a №гЂngerprint
ari(Q) Рђю (det(Q), gcd(Q), par(Q), [Q]Q, ([Q]Zp)p)
(2)
and they appear to all be e№гЃciently computable, but are essentially only useful to
answer the ╬ћLIP problem in the negative. When instantiating ╬ћLIP, we should
therefore make sure that these №гЂngerprint matches.

666
L. Ducas and W. van Woerden
The Hull. In the literature for linear code equivalence a relevant notion is that
of the e№гЃciently computable hull C X CK of a code C ─ѓ Fn
q . Properties such
as the rank of the hull are invariant under equivalence, and a small rank even
allows to e№гЃciently №гЂnd the isometry [41]. For a lattice L and its dual LРѕЌwe
could de№гЂne the hull as L X LРѕЌ. However, for integral lattices (or more generally
if the associated quadratic form is integral) we always have L ─ѓ LРѕЌand thus the
hull L X LРѕЌРђю L does not present us with new information. We could generalize
de№гЂnition to consider L X (k ┬и LРѕЌ) for rational k P QРђ░0, and although we do not
see a direct threat for our instantiation (in Sect. 8) from this, we do encourage
more research into the geometric properties of the resulting lattices.
Geometric Invariant. The de№гЂning and most important property of a unimodular
transformation U P GLn(Z) is that it gives a bijection Zn РєњZn by x РєњUx (or
x РєњU ┬┤1x). With respect to the quadratic forms Q, QРђ▓ :Рђю U tQU this even gives
an isometry (from QРђ▓ to Q) as
РЪеx, yРЪЕQРђ▓ Рђю xtQРђ▓y Рђю xtU tQUy Рђю РЪеUx, UyРЪЕQ for x, y P Rn.
This isometry results in several natural geometric invariants related to the norms
and inner products of integral vectors. We have already seen some, namely the
№гЂrst minimum ╬╗1(Q) and the i-th minimum ╬╗i(Q). Further geometric invariants
can be de№гЂned, such as the kissing number ╬║(Q) Рђю |Min(Q)| where
Min(Q) :Рђю {x P Zn : РѕЦxРѕЦQ Рђю ╬╗1(Q)},
and more generally the (formal) Theta-series ╬ўQ(q) Рђю 
РёЊРЕЙ0 NРёЊqРёЊassociated to
Q, where NРёЊРђю | {x P Zn : РѕЦxРѕЦQ Рђю РёЊ} |.
All these geometric invariant appears to involve №гЂnding or even enumerating
short vectors; in particular they are plausibly hard to compute.
7.2
Algorithms for Distinguish-LIP and Hardness Conjecture
In Sect. 8, we will use ╬ћLIP with quadratic forms with di№гђerent minimal dis-
tances ╬╗1(Q0) ─Ѓ ╬╗1(Q1). However we will be careful to ensure that their arith-
metic invariant match ari(Q0) Рђю ari(Q1) to not make the problem trivial.
Approximate-SVP Oracle. An f-approx-SVP oracle applied to a form Q №гЂnds a
short vector of length at most f┬и╬╗1(Q). So ╬ћLIP is no harder than f-approx-SVP
for f Рђю ╬╗1(Q1)/╬╗1(Q0) in any of those lattices.
Unusual-SVP via Lattice Reduction. However even when the gap between ╬╗1(Q0)
and ╬╗1(Q1) is small, the minimal vectors may individually still be unusually
short, which make them signi№гЂcantly easier to №гЂnd than in a random lattice.
This is usually formalized via the f-unique-SVP problem, but many instances of
interest do not have such a gap between ╬╗1 and ╬╗2; in fact Zn, Barnes-Wall and
Barnes-Sloane lattices all have ╬╗1 Рђю ╬╗2 Рђю ┬и ┬и ┬и Рђю ╬╗n. But practical and heuristic

On LIP, Quadratic Forms, Remarkable Lattices, and Cryptography
667
studies have showed that uniqueness is not that relevant to lattice attacks [2]. We
therefore introduce yet another lattice problem, called unusual-SVP to discuss
such instances. A formal complexity reduction between unusual-SVP and unique-
SVP matching or approaching the heuristic state of the art appears to be a
valuable research objective, but is beyond the scope of the present article.
We de№гЂne f-unusual-SVP: №гЂnd a minimal vector under the promise that
╬╗1(Q) РЕйgh(Q)/f, where the Gaussian Heuristic gh(Q) is a heuristic estimate
for ╬╗1(Q) given by:
gh(Q) :Рђю det(Q)1/2n ┬и
1
Рѕџ¤ђ ┬и ╬Њ(1 ` n/2)1/n РЅѕdet(Q)1/2n ┬и
 n
2¤ђe.
State of the art lattice reduction techniques №гЂnd these unusually short vector
more easily than longer vectors with length around gh(Q), and (heuristically)
the hardness is directly driven by the ratio f Рђю gh(Q)/╬╗1(Q) [2]. Given a form
QРђ▓ P [Q0]Рѕф[Q1] we parametrize the lattice reduction algorithm to №гЂnd a unusual
short vector with length min{╬╗1(Q0), ╬╗1(Q1)}, then depending on success we
learn that either QРђ▓ P [Q0] or QРђ▓ P [Q1].
An Approach of Szydlo. Additionally there is one heuristic algorithm in the lit-
erature [46] for ╬ћLIP, that applies to lattices obtained by mild sparsi№гЂcation of
the orthogonal lattice Zn. This algorithm proceeds by sampling vectors of length
O(Рѕџn) and then decides via a statistical test: the Theta-series appears su№гЃ-
ciently di№гђerent at such low lengths to distinguish the two lattices. Remarkably,
the parameters for state of the art lattice reduction algorithms parametrized
to solve O(Рѕџn)-approx-SVP for (mild sparsi№гЂcations of) Zn, match those to
solve gh(Zn)/╬╗1(Zn) Рђю O(Рѕџn)-unusual-SVP; instead of №гЂnding approximate
vectors we immediately №гЂnd the shortest vectors. Again we see that the ratio
gh(Q)/╬╗1(Q) is what seems to matter.
Conclusion. To conclude, let us also note that any of the above attack can also
be run over the dual. To state a hardness conjecture capturing these attacks we
de№гЂne the primal-dual gap to the Gaussian Heuristic as:
gap(Q) Рђю max
gh(Q)
╬╗1(Q), gh(Q┬┤1)
╬╗1(Q┬┤1)

.
Note that this quantity might be slightly lower than 1 (but no lower than 1/2
by Minkowski bound): there might exist excellent lattice packings beating the
Gaussian Heuristic. We will be assuming7 gap(Qi) РЕЙ1, which implies that
╬╗1(Qi)/╬╗1(Q1┬┤i) РЕйgap(Qi), therefore also capturing the №гЂrst approach.
In all the attacks above, one №гЂrst searches for vector no larger than f ┬и╬╗1(Qi)
w.r.t. Qi for f Рђю gap(Qi), hence the following conjecture.
7 That is, we cowardly shy away from making hardness conjecture on such exception-
ally dense lattice packings. Such a regime has never been considered in practical
cryptanalysis and would deserve speci№гЂc attention. We suspect that SVP in such
lattices to be even harder than in random lattices.

668
L. Ducas and W. van Woerden
Conjecture 7.1 (Hardness of ╬ћLIP (Strong)). For any class of quadratic forms
[Q0], [Q1] of dimension n, with ari([Q0]) Рђю ari([Q1]), 1 РЕйgap([Qi]) РЕйf, the best
attack against wc-╬ћLIPQ0,Q1 requires solving f-approx-SVP in the worst-case
from either [Q0] or [Q1].
This conjecture is meant to o№гђer a comparison point with existing lattice-
based cryptography in terms of the approximating factor. Beyond contradicting
this assumption, we also invite cryptanalysis e№гђort toward concrete comparison
of f-approx-SVP on those instances to SIS and LWE with the same approxima-
tion factor f. If one only wishes to argue exponential security in n of the schemes
proposed in this paper, a su№гЃcient conjecture is the following.
Conjecture 7.2 (Hardness of ╬ћLIP (Mild)). For any class of quadratic forms
[Q0], [Q1] of dimension n, with ari([Q0]) Рђю ari([Q1]), gap([Qi]) РЕйpoly(n),
wc-╬ћLIPQ0,Q1 is 2╬ў(n)-hard.
Note that the conjecture above are Рђюbest-caseРђЮ over the choice of the isomor-
phism class, and worst-case over the representation of the class (however note
that we have a worst-case to average-case reduction over that representation).
That is, even though we may only want to use ╬ћLIP for speci№гЂc choices of iso-
morphism classes, we gladly invite cryptanalysis e№гђort on ╬ћLIP on any choice
of isomorphism classes.
7.3
Algorithms for Search-LIP and Challenges
While the above invariants allow to semi-decide LIP, the search version requires
more e№гђort; though all methods known to us at least require the enumeration of
short primal or dual vectors. In the extended version of this work8 we discuss
these methods in more detail.
8
Instantiating ╬ћLIP Pairs from Remarkable Lattices
To instantiate our schemes, we do not only need a lattice with e№гЃcient decoding
or sampling; we also need a second lattice with a speci№гЂc property to instantiate
the ╬ћLIP problem and argue security. This section deals with how the ╬ћLIP
pair is constructed from a single remarkable lattice.
8.1
Key Encapsulation Mechanism
To instantiate our KEM we need two quadratic forms: a form S along with an
e№гЃcient decoder that can decode up to some distance ¤Ђ ─Ѓ ╬╗1(Q)/2, and a form
Q with a dense rank k sublattice D ┬и Zk ─ѓ Zn such that ╬и 1
2 (DtQD) РЕй¤Ђ/(2Рѕџn).
For simplicity of notation we move to the lattice point of view.
We assume to have an n-dimensional lattice ╬Џ for which gap(╬Џ) РЕйf Рђю
f(n), and for which we can decode up to ¤Ђ Рђю ╬ў(1/f) ┬и gh(╬Џ) ─Ѓ ╬╗1(╬Џ)/2. We
8 The full version of this work is available at https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/1332.

On LIP, Quadratic Forms, Remarkable Lattices, and Cryptography
669
consider a general construction leading to a 2n-dimensional primary lattice ╬ЏS
and secondary lattice ╬ЏQ with gap bounded by O(f 3) and such that ╬ЏQ has a
dense enough sublattice to instantiate our KEM.
Note that due to the bounded gap of ╬Џ we have by Lemma 2.6 that
╬и 1
2 (╬Џ) РЕй╬и2┬┤n(╬Џ) РЕй
Рѕџn
╬╗1(╬ЏРѕЌ) РЕй
Рѕџn ┬и f
gh(╬ЏРѕЌ) Рђю ╬ў(f ┬и det(╬Џ)1/n).
Now let g Рђю ╬ў(f 2) be a positive integer and consider the lattices:
╬ЏS :Рђю g ┬и ╬Џ РіЋ(g ` 1) ┬и ╬Џ, and ╬ЏQ :Рђю ╬Џ РіЋg(g ` 1)╬Џ,
where by construction ╬ЏQ has a dense sublattice ╬Џ. Note that we can still decode
╬ЏS up to radius ¤ЂРђ▓ :Рђю g ┬и ¤Ђ Рђю ╬ў(g/f) ┬и gh(╬Џ).
Invariants Match. Both lattices have determinant gn(g ` 1)n det(╬Џ)2. Due to
the coprimality of g and g ` 1 we still have gcd(╬ЏS) Рђю gcd(╬ЏQ) Рђю gcd(╬Џ),
and similarly for the parity. It remains to check rational equivalence and p-adic
equivalence for all primes p. Let R denote a quadratic form representing ╬Џ. Up
to integral equivalence, we have:
S :Рђю

g2R
0
0
(g ` 1)2R

Q :Рђю

R
0
0 g2(g ` 1)2R

.
Let In be the n ╦є n identity matrix and consider the transformations:
U1 :Рђю

g┬┤1In
0
0
gIn

U2 :Рђю

0
(g ` 1)In
(g ` 1)┬┤1In
0

Then Q Рђю U t
1SU1 over Q: this implies [S]Q Рђю [Q]Q. For any prime p we have
that either gcd(g, p) Рђю 1 or gcd(g ` 1, p) Рђю 1 (or both). So either g or (g ` 1)
is invertible over the p-adic integers Zp, and thus either U1 P GLd(Zp) exists
and Q Рђю U t
1SU1 over Zp or U2 P GLd(Zp) exists and Q Рђю U t
2SU2 over Zp. In
either case, we have established [S]Zp Рђю [Q]Zp, which concludes the comparison
of arithmetic invariants: ari(S) Рђю ari(Q).
Dense Sublattice. We now check the requirements for Theorem 5.2, namely that
╬и 1
2 (╬Џ) РЕй¤ЂРђ▓/(2
Рѕџ
2n). Given that ╬и 1
2 (╬Џ) РЕй╬ў(f ┬и gh(╬Џ)/Рѕџn), it is su№гЃcient if
╬ў(f ┬и gh(╬Џ)/Рѕџn) РЕй¤ЂРђ▓/(2
Рѕџ
2n) Рђю ╬ў(g/f) ┬и gh(╬Џ)/Рѕџn,
and thus we can conclude that some g Рђю ╬ў(f 2) indeed su№гЃces.
Following the conclusions from the cryptanalysis in Sect. 7.2 and more specif-
ically Conjecture 7.1, we take a look at the primal-dual gap for ╬ЏS and ╬ЏQ. We
have that gap(╬ЏS) Рђю ╬ў(gap(╬Џ)) РЕйO(f), and gap(╬ЏQ) Рђю ╬ў(g┬иgap(╬Џ)) РЕйO(f 3).
Note that following the same computation above but for a primal gap of f, dual
gap of f РѕЌ, and a decoding gap of f Рђ▓ РЕЙ2f we would have g Рђю ╬ў(f РѕЌ┬и f Рђ▓) and
obtain a №гЂnal primal-dual gap of O(max(f, f РѕЌ) ┬и f РѕЌ┬и f Рђ▓).

670
L. Ducas and W. van Woerden
8.2
Signature Scheme
Our signature scheme can be instantiated with any lattice for which we can
sample e№гЃciently at small Gaussian widths, following a similar ╬ћLIP pair as
above. Namely, we assume to have a lattice ╬Џ with gap(╬Џ) РЕйf and such that
we can sample e№гЃciently with parameter ¤Ђ/Рѕџn Рђю ╬ў(╬и2┬┤╬ў(n)(╬Џ)) close to the
smoothing bound. Similarly to the KEM we set ╬ЏS :Рђю g ┬и ╬Џ РіЋ(g ` 1) ┬и ╬Џ, and
╬ЏQ┬┤1 Рђю ╬Џ РіЋg(g ` 1) ┬и ╬Џ for some integer g РЕЙ1. In particular, as in the KEM,
we do have ari(S) Рђю ari(Q┬┤1).
Then for the dual we have ╬ЏQ Рђю ╬ЏРѕЌРіЋ
1
g(g`1)╬ЏРѕЌ, with
1
g(g`1)╬ЏРѕЌas a dense
sublattice. The constraint of Theorem 6.2 boils down to the inequality ╬ў(g ┬и
f ┬и det(╬Џ)1/n) РЕй╬ў(g2 det(╬Џ)1/n), and thus some g Рђю ╬ў(f) su№гЃces. The №гЂnal
primal-dual gap of ╬ЏS and ╬ЏQ┬┤1 is then bounded by O(f 2).
The simplest lattice for which we have very e№гЃcient samplers is of course
the integer lattice Zn, leading to a gap of O(n) via the above construction.
Instantiating our scheme with this lattice would lead to an interesting signature
scheme where there is no need to compute any Cholesky decomposition, even for
signing, and that could be fully implemented with e№гЃcient integer arithmetic.
We refer to our last open question (Sect. 1.3) regarding lattices with a tighter
Gaussian sampler, in order to obtain a signature scheme with a better underlying
approximation factor.
Getting Down to O(f). The general constructions presented turn a good decod-
able or sampleable lattice ╬Џ with gap f into a primary and secondary lattice with
gap O(f 3) and O(f 2) to instantiate our KEM and signature scheme respectively.
We suggest here that these losses might be an artifact of the security proof.
Suppose we can generate a random lattice ╬ЏQ such that ari(╬ЏQ) Рђю ari(╬Џ);
without the arithmetic constraint we would have with overwhelming probability
that gap(╬ЏQ) Рђю O(1) (but even O(f) would su№гЃce). LetРђЎs assume that the
constraint does not a№гђect this gap. Then similar to the scheme of McEliece, by
adding the extra security assumption that it is hard to decode in ╬ЏQ (or hard to
sample for the signature scheme), we could remove the lossyness argument from
the security proof and directly instantiate our schemes with the pair (╬Џ, ╬ЏQ),
leading to a gap of O(f).
Acknowledgments. The authors would like to express their gratitude to Jelle Don,
Chris Peikert, Alice Pellet-Mary, Damien Stehl┬┤e and Benjamin Wesolowski for relevant
discussions and their precious feedback. Special thanks go to Aron van Baarsen for
bringing the genus to our attention, and to Thomas Debris-Alazard and Alain Couvreur
for bringing the hull to our attention.
The research of L. Ducas was supported by the European UnionРђЎs H2020
Programme under PROMETHEUS project (grant 780701) and the ERC-StG-
ARTICULATE project (no. 947821). W. van Woerden is funded by the ERC-ADG-
ALGSTRONGCRYPTO project (no. 740972).

On LIP, Quadratic Forms, Remarkable Lattices, and Cryptography
671
References
1. Aggarwal, D., Dadush, D., Regev, O., Stephens-Davidowitz, N.: Solving the short-
est vector problem in 2n time using discrete Gaussian sampling. In: Proceedings of
the Forty-Seventh Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, pp. 733РђЊ742
(2015)
2. Albrecht, M., Ducas, L.: Lattice attacks on NTRU and LWE: a history of re№гЂne-
ments. Cryptology ePrint Archive Report 2021/799 (2021). https://ia.cr/2021/799
3. Barak, B., et al.: Leftover hash lemma, revisited. In: Rogaway, P. (ed.) CRYPTO
2011. LNCS, vol. 6841, pp. 1РђЊ20. Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-642-22792-9 1
4. Becker, A., Ducas, L., Gama, N., Laarhoven, T.: New directions in nearest neigh-
bor searching with applications to lattice sieving. In: Proceedings of the Twenty-
Seventh Annual ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms, pp. 10РђЊ24. SIAM
(2016)
5. Biasse, J.-F., Micheli, G., Persichetti, E., Santini, P.: LESS is more: code-based
signatures without syndromes. In: Nitaj, A., Youssef, A. (eds.) AFRICACRYPT
2020. LNCS, vol. 12174, pp. 45РђЊ65. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-51938-4 3
6. Blanks, T.L., Miller, S.D.: Generating cryptographically-strong random lattice
bases and recognizing rotations of Zn. CoRR (2021)
7. Brakerski, Z., Langlois, A., Peikert, C., Regev, O., Stehl┬┤e, D.: Classical hardness
of learning with errors. In: STOC, pp. 575РђЊ584 (2013)
8. Chor, B., Rivest, R.L.: A knapsack-type public key cryptosystem based on arith-
metic in №гЂnite №гЂelds. IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 34(5), 901РђЊ909 (1988)
9. Conway, J.H., Sloane, N.J.A.: Sphere Packings, Lattices and Groups, vol. 290.
Springer, Heidelberg (2013)
10. Damg╦џard, I.: On
-protocols. Lecture Notes, University of Aarhus, Department for
Computer Science (2002)
11. Ducas,
L.,
Pierrot,
C.:
Polynomial
time
bounded
distance
decoding
near
MinkowskiРђЎs bound in discrete logarithm lattices. Des. Codes Crypt. 87(8), 1737РђЊ
1748 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/s10623-018-0573-3
12. Gentry, C., Peikert, C., Vaikuntanathan, V.: Trapdoors for hard lattices and new
cryptographic constructions. In: STOC, pp. 197РђЊ206 (2008)
13. Gentry, C., Szydlo, M.: Cryptanalysis of the revised NTRU signature scheme. In:
Knudsen, L.R. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2002. LNCS, vol. 2332, pp. 299РђЊ320. Springer,
Heidelberg (2002). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-46035-7 20
14. Goldreich, O., Micali, S., Wigderson, A.: Proofs that yield nothing but their validity
or all languages in NP have zero-knowledge proof systems. J. ACM (JACM) 38(3),
690РђЊ728 (1991)
15. H╦џastad, J., Impagliazzo, R., Levin, L.A., Luby, M.: A pseudorandom generator
from any one-way function. SIAM J. Comput. 28(4), 1364РђЊ1396 (1999)
16. Haviv, I., Regev, O.: Hardness of the covering radius problem on lattices. In: IEEE
Conference on Computational Complexity, pp. 145РђЊ158 (2006)
17. Haviv, I., Regev, O.: On the lattice isomorphism problem. In: Proceedings of the
Twenty-Fifth Annual ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms, pp. 391РђЊ
404. SIAM (2014)
18. Katz, J., Lindell, Y.: Introduction to Modern Cryptography. CRC Press, Boca
Raton (2020)

672
L. Ducas and W. van Woerden
19. Klein, P.N.: Finding the closest lattice vector when itРђЎs unusually close. In: SODA,
pp. 937РђЊ941 (2000)
20. Lapiha, O.: Comparing lattice families for bounded distance decoding near
MinkowskiРђЎs bound. Cryptology ePrint Archive Report 2021/1052 (2021). https://
ia.cr/2021/1052
21. Lenstra, A.K., Lenstra, H.W., Jr., Lov┬┤asz, L.: Factoring polynomials with rational
coe№гЃcients. Math. Ann. 261(4), 515РђЊ534 (1982)
22. Lenstra, H.W.: On the Chor-Rivest knapsack cryptosystem. J. Cryptol. 3(3), 149РђЊ
155 (1991). https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00196908
23. Lenstra, H.W., Silverberg, A.: Revisiting the Gentry-Szydlo algorithm. In: Garay,
J.A., Gennaro, R. (eds.) CRYPTO 2014. LNCS, vol. 8616, pp. 280РђЊ296. Springer,
Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-44371-2 16
24. Li, Z., Ling, S., Xing, C., Yeo, S.L.: On the bounded distance decoding problem for
lattices constructed and their cryptographic applications. IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory
66(4), 2588РђЊ2598 (2020)
25. McEliece, R.J.: A public-key cryptosystem based on algebraic coding theory. Cod-
ing Thv 4244, 114РђЊ116 (1978)
26. Merkle, R., Hellman, M.: Hiding information and signatures in trapdoor knapsacks.
IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 24(5), 525РђЊ530 (1978)
27. Micciancio, D., Goldwasser, S.: Complexity of Lattice Problems: A Cryptographic
Perspective. The Kluwer International Series in Engineering and Computer Sci-
ence, vol. 671. Kluwer Academic Publishers, Boston (2002)
28. Micciancio, D., Nicolosi, A.: E№гЃcient bounded distance decoders for Barnes-Wall
lattices. In: 2008 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory, pp. 2484РђЊ
2488. IEEE (2008)
29. Micciancio, D., Regev, O.: Worst-case to average-case reductions based on gaus-
sian measures. SIAM J. Comput. 37(1), 267РђЊ302 (2007). https://doi.org/10.1137/
S0097539705447360
30. Micciancio, D., Regev, O.: Worst-case to average-case reductions based on Gaussian
measures. SIAM J. Comput. 37(1), 267РђЊ302 (2007). Preliminary version in FOCS
2004
31. Mook, E., Peikert, C.: Lattice (list) decoding near MinkowskiРђЎs inequality. IEEE
Trans. Inf. Theory 68(2), 863РђЊ870 (2022)
32. Odlyzko, A.M.: The rise and fall of knapsack cryptosystems. In: Pomerance, C.
(ed.) Cryptology and Computational Number Theory. Proceedings of Symposia in
Applied Mathematics, vol. 42, pp. 75РђЊ88 (1990)
33. Okamoto, T., Tanaka, K., Uchiyama, S.: Quantum public-key cryptosystems. In:
Bellare, M. (ed.) CRYPTO 2000. LNCS, vol. 1880, pp. 147РђЊ165. Springer, Heidel-
berg (2000). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44598-6 9
34. Peikert, C.: An e№гЃcient and parallel Gaussian sampler for lattices. In: Rabin, T.
(ed.) CRYPTO 2010. LNCS, vol. 6223, pp. 80РђЊ97. Springer, Heidelberg (2010).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-14623-7 5
35. Peikert, C., Rosen, A.: E№гЃcient collision-resistant hashing from worst-case assump-
tions on cyclic lattices. In: Halevi, S., Rabin, T. (eds.) TCC 2006. LNCS, vol. 3876,
pp. 145РђЊ166. Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/10.1007/11681878 8
36. Peikert, C., Waters, B.: Lossy trapdoor functions and their applications. SIAM J.
Comput. 40(6), 1803РђЊ1844 (2011)
37. Plesken, W., Pohst, M.: Constructing integral lattices with prescribed minimum.
I. Math. Comput. 45(171), 209РђЊ221 (1985)
38. Plesken, W., Souvignier, B.: Computing isometries of lattices. J. Symb. Comput.
24(3РђЊ4), 327РђЊ334 (1997)

On LIP, Quadratic Forms, Remarkable Lattices, and Cryptography
673
39. Regev, O.: On lattices, learning with errors, random linear codes, and cryptogra-
phy. J. ACM 56(6), 1РђЊ40 (2009). Preliminary version in STOC 2005
40. Schnorr, C.P.: A hierarchy of polynomial time lattice basis reduction algorithms.
Theor. Comput. Sci. 53, 201РђЊ224 (1987)
41. Sendrier, N.: Finding the permutation between equivalent linear codes: the support
splitting algorithm. IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 46(4), 1193РђЊ1203 (2000)
42. Serre, J.P.: A Course in Arithmetic, vol. 7. Springer, Heidelberg (2012)
43. Shamir, A.: A polynomial time algorithm for breaking the basic Merkle-Hellman
cryptosystem. In: 23rd Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science
(SFCS 1982), pp. 145РђЊ152. IEEE (1982)
44. Sikiric, M.D., Haensch, A., Voight, J., van Woerden, W.P.: A canonical form for
positive de№гЂnite matrices. In: ANTS XIV, p. 179 (2020)
45. Sol┬┤e, P., Charnes, C., Martin, B.: A lattice-based McEliece scheme for encryption
and signature. Electron. Notes Discrete Math. 6, 402РђЊ411 (2001)
46. Szydlo, M.: Hypercubic lattice reduction and analysis of GGH and NTRU sig-
natures. In: Biham, E. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2003. LNCS, vol. 2656, pp. 433РђЊ448.
Springer, Heidelberg (2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-39200-9 27

