Perfect (Parallel) Broadcast in Constant
Expected Rounds via Statistical VSS
Gilad Asharov(B)
and Anirudh Chandramouli
Department of Computer Science, Bar-Ilan University, Ramat Gan, Israel
{Gilad.Asharov,Anirudh.Chandramouli}@biu.ac.il
Abstract. We study broadcast protocols in the information-theoretic
model under optimal conditions, where the number of corruptions t is
at most one-third of the parties, n. While worst-case Ω(n) round broad-
cast protocols are known to be impossible to achieve, protocols with an
expected constant number of rounds have been demonstrated since the
seminal work of Feldman and Micali [STOC’88]. Communication com-
plexity for such protocols has gradually improved over the years, reach-
ing O(nL) plus expected O(n4 log n) for broadcasting a message of size
L bits.
This paper presents a perfectly secure broadcast protocol with
expected constant rounds and communication complexity of O(nL) plus
expected O(n3 log2 n) bits. In addition, we consider the problem of par-
allel broadcast, where n senders, each wish to broadcast a message of size
L. We show a parallel broadcast protocol with expected constant rounds
and communication complexity of O(n2L) plus expected O(n3 log2 n)
bits. Our protocol is optimal (up to expectation) for messages of length
L ∈Ω(n log2 n).
Our main contribution is a framework for obtaining perfectly secure
broadcast with an expected constant number of rounds from a statisti-
cally secure veriﬁable secret sharing. Moreover, we provide a new sta-
tistically secure veriﬁable secret sharing where the broadcast cost per
participant is reduced from O(n log n) bits to only O(poly log n) bits. All
our protocols are adaptively secure.
Keywords: Perfect Secure Computation · Broadcast · Byzantine
Agreement · Veriﬁable Secret Sharing
1
Introduction
Broadcast is a fundamental building block in secure computation, serving as a
crucial primitive. It enables a designated party (a sender) to transmit a message
This research is sponsored by the Israel Science Foundation (grant No. 2439/20).
Asharov is additionally sponsored by JPM Faculty Research Award, and by the
European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under the Marie
Sklodowska-Curie grant agreement No. 891234.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2024
M. Joye and G. Leander (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2024, LNCS 14655, pp. 310–339, 2024.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-58740-5_11

Perfect (Parallel) Broadcast via Statistical VSS
311
while ensuring that all participants receive an identical message and reach a
consensus on its content. However, this task becomes particularly challenging
when dealing with potentially corrupted parties, as they may deceive others
about the messages they have received, or a corrupted sender may transmit
inconsistent messages.
The primary focus of this paper is to address the realization of the broadcast
primitive over point-to-point (ideal private) channels, in the most demanding sce-
nario: achieving perfect security with optimal resilience. Perfect security means
that the protocol cannot rely on any computational assumption and that the
error probability is zero. Optimal resilience means that the number of corrupted
parties is at most t < n/3, which is tight by the lower bounds of [28,33].
For broadcasting a message of size L, the best one can hope for is O(nL); since
each party has to receive a message of size L, then the total bits transmitted is at
least nL. Broadly, broadcast protocols can be characterized into two categories:
– Succinct protocols but with a high number of rounds: In this family,
broadcasting a message of size L takes O(nL+n2 log n) total communication
complexity with Θ(n) rounds [11,14,16]. Broadcasting a single bit requires
Ω(n2) bits of communication, when the protocol is deterministic [19], or ran-
domized, against strongly-adaptive adversaries1 [4].
– More communication, but with an expected constant number of
rounds: It has been shown that for any broadcast protocol with perfect
security, there exists an execution that requires t+1 rounds [22]. This implies
that a protocol with a strict constant number of rounds is impossible to
achieve, and this limitation can be overcome by using randomization [8,34].
This family of protocols, originated by Feldman and Micali [20] followed by
the impressive improvement of Katz and Koo [25], results in O(n2L) bits
plus expected O(n6 log n) bits in expectation for broadcasting a message of
size L, with an expected constant number of rounds. This result was recently
improved by Abraham et al. [2], which requires communication complexity of
O(nL) bits plus expected O(n4 log n) bits, with an expected constant number
of rounds.
Since broadcast is such a fundamental primitive, narrowing the gap between
these two families of protocols is of high importance. This has a potential impact
on the complexity of secure computation protocols.
Parallel Broadcast. In secure protocols, we often witness the communication
pattern in which n parties have to broadcast messages in parallel at the same
round. For instance, in veriﬁable secret sharing, the parties often complain (in
parallel) about messages sent by the dealer, or vote (in parallel) whether to
accept or reject the shares of the dealer. Since each party has to receive O(nL)
bits in total, the best we can hope for is O(n2L) communication complexity,
with an expected constant number of rounds, and in that case, we say that the
1 Strongly adaptive adversary means that at the same round, the adversary can see
the message sent by an honest party, corrupt it, and remove (and switch) the other
messages being sent at the same round by that party.

312
G. Asharov and A. Chandramouli
protocol is “asymptotically-free”. The protocol of [25] shows an asymptotically-
free parallel broadcast for messages of size ≈n4, while [2] is asymptotically-
free for messages of size ≈n2. Explicitly, the former is a parallel broadcast
with expected O(n2L + n6 log n) communication complexity and the latter is
O(n2L + n4 log n).
1.1
Our Results
Our main result is an asymptotically-free parallel broadcast for messages of size
≈n. We show:
Theorem 1.1. There exists a perfectly secure, balanced, parallel-broadcast pro-
tocol with optimal resilience which allows n senders to distribute each a message
of size L, at the communication cost of O(n2L) bits plus expected O(n3 log2 n)
bits, and expected constant number of rounds.
By “balanced” we mean that each party sends or receives roughly the same
amount of information, and so each party sends or receives O(nL) bits plus
expected O(n2 log2 n) bits in our protocol. On the other hand, we mentioned that
every parallel broadcast protocol must incur Ω(n2L). In addition, strict constant
round parallel broadcast is impossible [22], and so our protocol is optimal up to
logarithmic factor and expectation for messages of size L ≥Ω(n log2 n).
The best prior requires either O(n2L) plus expected O(n4 log n) with constant
expected number of rounds [2], or O(n2L+n3 log n) but with O(n) rounds (easily
derived from [14]).
Giving a coarse analysis, and just evaluating the terms in the asymptotic
notation, for 1024 parties, even if each party has to broadcast just a single bit
(e.g., voting whether to accept the shares of the dealer), in the protocol of [2]
each party has to send or receive about 1.34 GB whereas in our protocol it has
to send or receive about 13 MB.
Ordinary Broadcast. In classical broadcast, where there is a single sender,
we provide an improvement of almost a factor of n in the communication com-
plexity of broadcast with perfect security and optimal resilience. Our protocol
is asymptotically free for messages of size ≈n2:
Theorem 1.2 (Informal).
There exists a perfectly secure, balanced, broad-
cast protocol with optimal resilience that requires communication of O(nL) plus
expected O(n3 log2 n) bits for broadcasting a message of size L bits, with an
expected constant number of rounds.
That is, our protocol falls in the second category of protocols where the best
previous result is that of Abraham et al. [2], which requires O(nL) bits plus
expected O(n4 log n) bits. As such, our protocol is asymptotically-free also for
much shorter messages.
The protocol of Abraham et al. [2] is asymptotically free for messages of size
L ∈Ω(n3 log n). Our protocol is asymptotically free for messages of smaller size

Perfect (Parallel) Broadcast via Statistical VSS
313
L ∈Ω(n2 log2 n). E.g., ignoring constant factors and just evaluating the terms
in the asymptotic notation, for broadcasting 1 KB and 512 parties, each party
in [2] has to send or receive ≈144 MB; ours is ≈2.65 MB.
Main Technical Contributions
Our result is obtained from the following technical contributions.
Eﬃcient Oblivious Leader Election (OLE). The broadcast protocols in [2,
20,25] rely on a primitive called oblivious leader election (OLE). The goal in
OLE is that all parties would randomly pick one of them as a leader, and reach
an agreement on the identity of that leader. The desired outcome is that the
chosen leader would be one of the honest parties. The protocol might fail with
some constant probability (either, a non-honest leader is chosen, or there is no
agreement on who is the chosen leader). We show:
Theorem 1.3. There exists a perfectly secure, oblivious leader election, with
total communication of O(n3 log2 n) bits over point-to-point channels and strict
constant number of rounds.
The oblivious leader election of [25] requires O(n6 log n) bits over point-to-point
channels; the leader election of [2] requires O(n4 log n) cost over point-to-point
channels. Our conceptual contribution is that, at least at the intuitive level, the
embedded error in the functionality of OLE allows it to be implemented from
weaker primitives. Our improved OLE is achieved via two improvements:
– OLE from Statistical VSS: OLE uses veriﬁable secret sharing as a sub-
protocol. Since the oblivious leader election may fail regardless with some con-
stant probability, it becomes possible to build it using a statistically secure
VSS as a sub-protocol rather than a perfectly secure one. Essentially, the
negligible security error introduced to the statistical VSS is shifted into the
constant failure probability of the oblivious leader election, resulting in neg-
ligible degradation in the round complexity (which still remains constant in
expectation).
– Less VSSes: The oblivious leader election in [2,25] requires all parties to run
VSS in parallel, while each party has to share O(n) secrets. That is, a total
of O(n2) secrets being shared. Our OLE requires each party to share only
O(poly log n) secrets. This introduces an error, which is again shifted into the
constant failure probability of the OLE.
Those improvements open the door to signiﬁcantly reducing the communication
complexity.
Broadcast Eﬃcient Statistically-Secure Veriﬁable Secret Sharing. The
protocol of [3] has low overhead per secret – but only for a relatively high number
of secrets. Even if we use an ideal broadcast (that is impossible to achieve –
i.e., O(nL) and constant round) in the protocol of [3], we get O(n3 log n) total
communication for sharing O(n2) secrets, i.e., overhead of O(n) per secret. But

314
G. Asharov and A. Chandramouli
if one wants to share only, say O(log n) secrets, the cost, even when using an
ideal broadcast, still remains O(n3 log n), i.e., overhead of O(n3) per secret. The
same is true also for other VSS protocols such as [2,10,21] in the perfect setting
and in the statistical setting [32]. We show a protocol that has low overhead also
for small number of secrets.
Theorem 1.4. There exists a veriﬁable secret sharing protocol that allows a
dealer to distribute m secrets of O(log n) bits each, with a total communication
complexity of O(m · n2 log n) bits over the point-to-point channels; the dealer
broadcasts O(n log n) bits, and each party broadcasts O((m + log(n/ϵ)) · log n)
bits. The protocol has an error probability of ϵ in case of a corrupted dealer. The
protocol tolerates up to t < n/3 malicious parties and is adaptively secure.
Putting it diﬀerently, using an ideal broadcast, our protocol achieves a lower
cost than [3] when the number of secrets m ∈o(n). Speciﬁcally, for our oblivious
leader election, each one of the n parties shares m = log n secrets. Using the
VSS of [3] this results in O(n4 log n) bits in total (for all n dealers). Using our
VSS, this results in O(n3 log2 n), which leads to the cost of the OLE mentioned
in Theorem 1.3. We achieve this improvement by letting all parties broadcast
together ˜O(n) bits over the broadcast channel, instead of ˜Ω(n2) by previous
works.
For our OLE, it suﬃces to have VSS that fails with probability ϵ = 1/poly(n).
We also use m = log n, and thus we get that each participant broadcasts O((m+
log(n/ϵ)) · log n = O(log2 n) bits. Theorem 1.2 is reported in that light.
An important challenge that we overcome is that the protocol is adaptively
secure (even strongly-adaptively secure). Existing statistically-secure VSS proto-
cols [18,26,31,35] are not suitable for our needs due to either not being adaptively
secure (see [18]) or not incurring the above costs. Furthermore, several common
techniques for achieving statistical security, such as dynamically electing a small
(for instance, of size o(n)) committee are also not acceptable, as an adaptive
adversary can corrupt the elected committee dynamically.
Discussions
Applications. Protocols in the MPC literature are usually given in the broad-
cast hybrid model, and improving broadcast automatically improves the com-
plexity of protocols or other building blocks. For example, the VSS protocol of [3],
when using the broadcast protocol of [2], results in O(m · n log n + n4 log n) for
sharing m secrets. In particular, it means that if one has to share m = n2 log2 n
secrets, the protocol runs in O(n4 log n), i.e., an overhead of ≈O(n2) per secret.
The same protocol of [3], using our broadcast, results in O(m·n log n+n3 log2 n)
bits for sharing m secrets, that is, for the same m as before it runs in O(n3 log2 n),
i.e., an overhead of O(n) per secret.
Worst-Case Number of Rounds. Broadcast protocols [2,20,25] in expected
constant number of rounds work by repeating some randomized process (oblivi-
ous leader election) that succeeds with a constant probability. If not succeeded,

Perfect (Parallel) Broadcast via Statistical VSS
315
there is a repetition. This leads to a protocol that might never terminate. Such
protocols can be transformed into protocols in strict polynomial time, using the
approach of Goldreich and Petrank [24]. E.g., after O(log n) unsuccessful itera-
tions, the parties can run the O(n) rounds protocol for broadcast with guaranteed
termination. This results in a protocol that is perfectly secure and runs in an
expected constant number of rounds, and O(n) rounds in the worst case.
Adaptive Security. It is well known that any perfectly secure protocol that is
secure against a static adversary, (and in addition satisﬁes some natural prop-
erties) is also adaptively secure [13]. Therefore, at ﬁrst sight, it seems unclear
why in Theorem 1.4 we require that the statistically-secure protocol would be
adaptively secure. We remark that the approach of [13] does not necessarily pre-
serves the communication complexity. Moreover, we obtain perfect security (and
thus also adaptive security) only after following the approach of Goldreich and
Petrank [24]. For instance, assume an OLE which is not adaptively secure, and
thus a corrupted adversary can make the OLE to always fail (we stress that this
is not the case in our protocol, but we give it just as an example). As a result,
after O(n) unsuccessful iterations, the parties would always have to run the O(n)
rounds protocol with guaranteed termination. The resulting protocol is perfectly
secure with an expected O(1) rounds against a static adversary, but with Θ(n)
rounds against an adaptive adversary. Using adaptively-secure VSS guarantees
that we successfully terminate after (expected) O(1) rounds even when the adver-
sary is adaptive. This is why in all statistically-secure sub-protocols that we have,
we explicitly require adaptive security.
Simultaneous Termination. Any broadcast protocol with o(t) expected
rounds cannot guarantee simultaneous termination. This raises a diﬃculty when
sequentially composing such protocols – parties are not necessarily synchronized.
This issue was addressed in Lindell, Lysyanskaya and Rabin [29], Katz and
Koo [25] and Cohen, Coretti, Garay and Zikas [17], and we refer the reader
there for further details.
We use a standalone, simulation-based deﬁnition as in [12]. This deﬁnition
does not capture rounds in the ideal functionality or that there is no simultane-
ous termination. The work of [17] shows that one can compile a protocol using
deterministic termination hybrids (as the ideal functionality that we provide)
into a protocol that uses an expected constant number of rounds protocol for
emulating those hybrids.
1.2
Related Work
Broadcast is an essential primitive and was studied extensively over the years. It
is known that perfect byzantine agreement and broadcast are impossible for t ≥
n/3 [28,33]. Fischer and Lynch [22] showed that in any deterministic broadcast,
there exists an execution that takes at least t + 1 rounds. Rabin [34] and Ben-
Or [8] studied the eﬀect of randomization on round complexity, and Feldman and
Micali [20] gave the ﬁrst protocol with an expected constant round protocol for

316
G. Asharov and A. Chandramouli
byzantine agreement with optimal resilience. We report the progress of broadcast
protocols over the years in Table 1.
Table 1. The complexity of our protocols and comparison to previous works of broad-
cast and parallel broadcast. Total communication is given in bits.
Protocol
Total Communication
Rounds
Broadcast
Coan et al. [16], Berman et al. [11] O(n2L)
O(n)
[11,16]+Chen [14]
O(nL + n2 log n)
Katz and Koo [25]
O(n2L) + E(O(n6 log n))
[25] + Nayak et al. [30]
O(nL) + E(O(n7 log n))
Expected
Abraham et al. [2]
O(nL) + E(O(n4 log n))
Constant
Our Work
O(nL) + E(O(n3 log2 n))
Parallel Broadcast
Chen [14]
O(n2L + n3 log n)
O(n)
Katz and Koo [25]
O(n2L) + E(O(n6 log n))
Abraham et al. [2]
O(n2L) + E(O(n4 log n))
Expected
Constant
Our Work
O(n2L) + E(O(n3 log2 n))
Gradecast was introduced by Feldman and Micali [20], and was improved
over the years (e.g., [1,2]). Gradecast is used as a building block for multiple
consensus algorithms, e.g., multi-consensus, approximate agreement [9], or for
Phase-King [5].
Veriﬁable secret sharing was introduced by Chor et al. [15]. The ﬁrst per-
fectly secure veriﬁable secret sharing was presented by Ben Or, Goldwasser, and
Wigderson [10] and by Feldman [21]. Abraham et al. [2] showed how to distribute
O(n) secrets at the same cost as one VSS invocation, which led to reduce the
cost of Broadcast as well. In another work, Abraham et al. [3] showed how to
batch many instances of VSS together while keeping the same broadcast cost
among all instances as just a single instance, to reduce the cost of MPC proto-
cols in the perfect settings. The protocol of [3] serves as our starting point for
the VSS protocol, as it reduces the broadcast cost of the dealer from O(n2 log n)
to O(n log n).
The parallel broadcast protocol of [36] for L = 1, incurs a total communica-
tion O(n2κ4) assuming a trusted PKI, where κ is the security parameter.
2
Technical Overview
The construction of broadcast in an expected constant number of rounds is quite
complex and consists of several diﬀerent building blocks. For a brief overview

Perfect (Parallel) Broadcast via Statistical VSS
317
of the structure of such protocols, we refer the reader to the full version [6],
which provides a glossary for the diﬀerent primitives used and can be used as a
reference when reading other parts of the paper. In the following, we overview our
contributions in two primitives, each can be studied and analyzed independently
and regardless to broadcast. We overview our oblivious leader election (Sect. 2.1)
and our statistically secure VSS (Sect. 2.2). We provide some conclusions in
Sect. 2.3.
2.1
Eﬃcient Oblivious Leader Election
Oblivious leader election is a protocol where the parties try to elect one of them as
a leader, uniformly at random. Each party has no input, and each party outputs
an index in {1, . . . , n}. We might have three possible outcomes: (1) All parties
output the same index j ∈{1, . . . , n}, and Pj is honest; (2) All parties agree on
the same index i ∈{1, . . . , n}, but Pi is corrupted; (3) There is no agreement
on the output index. The goal is to achieve outcome (1) with some constant
probability (and a strict constant number of rounds). Once outcome (1) occurs,
then the broadcast protocol terminates successfully. If
(2) or (3) occur, then
we re-run OLE, leading to an overall broadcast protocol that runs in expected
constant number of rounds.
The main idea in [2,20,25] to elect a leader is to pick a random value cj for
each one of the parties Pj. The value cj is chosen collectively by all parties. Then,
the elected leader is the one for which cj is minimal. Towards that end, in [2,20,
25] each party Pi chooses n random values uniformly at random, ci→1, . . . , ci→n,
where each ci→j should be interpreted as the contribution of Pi to Pj. The
parties deﬁne the value cj = n
i=1 ci→j to be the random value associated with
Pj. This guarantees that even if some corrupted parties contribute values that
are not uniformly random, each cj is still random.
To make this idea work and prevent the corrupted parties from biasing those
random values, we need to implement a mechanism that achieves hiding and
binding, like a commitment scheme. A mechanism that allows exactly that in
the information-theoretic setting is a veriﬁable secret sharing. Each party Pi
veriﬁably secret shares ci→1, . . . , ci→n. Then, after all parties share their values,
all parties reconstruct all secrets. Hiding guarantees that the shares do not pro-
vide any information about the secrets, which means that the adversary must
choose its contributions independently of the contributions of the honest par-
ties. Binding guarantees that once the sharing phase is concluded, the dealer
cannot change its decision, and reconstruction is always guaranteed. Therefore,
the adversary cannot bias the result by either opening diﬀerent values than what
it initially committed to, or selectively failing particular reconstructions.
Our OLE. Our conceptual contribution is that, at least at the intuitive level,
the embedded error in the functionality of OLE allows us to use statistically
secure building blocks to realize OLE. Speciﬁcally, all we care about is that
outcome (1) occurs with a constant probability. Therefore, we can relax the
requirements from the protocol, and achieve a more eﬃcient construction.

318
G. Asharov and A. Chandramouli
Reducing the Amount of Secrets. When designing a perfectly secure pro-
tocol, we have to guarantee that for each party Pi, there is at least one honest
party Pj that contributed to the value ci. Since the number of corrupted parties
might be up to n/3, it implies that each party must receive at least n/3 + 1
contributions, i.e., we have O(n2) secrets in total that have to be shared. This is
why each party just contributes to all other parties in the protocols of [2,20,25].
However, when designing a statistically secure protocol, it suﬃces that with high
enough probability, for each party Pi there is at least one honest party Pj that
contributed cj→i to the value ci. This guarantees that ci is uniform.
Towards that end, instead of each Pj picking n random values, we instruct
it to just pick O(poly log n) random values, together with O(poly log n) random
parties that it contributes to. The identities of which parties Pj contributes to
are secret shared as well to guarantee that the adversary cannot pick which
parties to contribute to after seeing the choices made by the honest parties. We
show that this simple mechanism suﬃces to guarantee that with high probability,
all parties have at least one honest party that contributed to their value, and
therefore, all values c1, . . . , cn are random.
Moderated VSS. The above description is oversimpliﬁed. Speciﬁcally, one
problem that arises is that the VSS itself uses broadcast as a primitive while
we use OLE to implement broadcast. To avoid this circularity, the broadcast
inside the VSS is replaced with a weaker primitive called gradecast. Gradecast
(see the glossary in [6]) is a relaxation of broadcast where the sender sends a
message M to all parties, and each party Pi outputs some message together with
a grade. The guarantee is that if the sender is honest, then all honest parties
output the same message (agreement) and with a high grade; but this is not
necessarily true if the sender is corrupted. In that case, diﬀerent parties might
receive diﬀerent messages (and with low grades). It is essential to note that the
substitution of gradecast for broadcast within the VSS framework introduces a
degree of uncertainty. This uncertainty stems from the fact that parties may
not unanimously agree on whether to accept or reject the shared information,
leading to potential divergence of outcomes within the VSS protocol.
The protocol of [25] works by having a designated party, called “a modera-
tor”, to be responsible for all gradecasts, so that if something goes wrong, we
can know who is to blame (somewhat similar to the concept of identiﬁable abort
in secure computation). Namely, whenever the VSS instructs a party to broad-
cast a message – that party gradecasts it; Moreover, the moderator then has
to repeat the message (i.e., gradecast it), and parties proceed with the message
gradecasted by the moderator. At the end of the sharing phase, each party out-
puts, together with the shares, a grade for the moderator in {0, 1}. For instance,
if a party Pj sees that the moderator repeats a diﬀerent message than the one
gradecsated by some party Pk (and was previously received with a high grade) –
then clearly the moderator is malicious, and Pj sets the grade of the moderator
to be 0.
At the end of this step, we have the guarantee that if the moderator is
honest, all honest parties give grade 1 to the moderator, and we will always have

Perfect (Parallel) Broadcast via Statistical VSS
319
an agreement on the VSSes it moderates. This is true for both the case where the
dealer is honest, or the case where the dealer is corrupted, regardless of whether
the parties accept or reject the shares. If the moderator is dishonest, then we
might not have an agreement, but it is enough that one honest party believes
that the moderation was successful to guarantee that the underlying VSS was
successful (i.e., all parties do agree whether to accept or reject the shares, but
some might be uncertain of whether moderation was successful).
The protocol of [25] proceeds as follows:
1. For every (i, j) ∈[n2] run a moderated VSS where Pi is the dealer and Pj is
the moderator, and the secret is some random ci→j chosen by Pi.
2. Reconstruct all secrets.
3. Each Pk sets Successfulk = ∅; Add j to Successfulk if Pj successfully moder-
ated all the n instances it moderated, and set cj = n
ℓ=1 cℓ→j.
4. Each Pk chooses as a leader Pj for which cj is minimal among all indices in
Successfulk.
All honest parties are included in all Successfulk for every honest k, and they
see the same value cj. If some honest party added to Successfulk some corrupted
party Pi, then ci must be uniform. A simple argument shows that an honest
leader is chosen and agreed upon among all honest parties with some constant
probability.
Reducing the Amount of VSSes. In [25] there are n2 independent instances
of moderated VSS. As mentioned, we reduced the number of diﬀerent secrets
to O(n log n). Moreover, each party (a dealer) chooses randomly which O(log n)
parties (moderators) it contributes to. Furthermore, we mentioned that which
parties Pj contributes to must be kept secret at the sharing phase. This means
that a party cannot know in advance which instances it has to moderate – those
are chosen dynamically by the diﬀerent dealers.
We address this challenge by implementing a novel moderation approach.
Instead of assigning a single moderator to oversee each instance of VSS, all par-
ticipating parties collectively assume the role of moderators for every instance.
That is, we can envision each VSS execution as n parallel executions, with the
same dealer, the same secret, but each instance is moderated by a diﬀerent mod-
erator. The moderation mechanism relies on the fact that at least two-thirds of
the moderators are honest. As a result, we can look at the majority of the n dif-
ferent executions. If the dealer is honest, then all honest parties output, at the
end of the reconstruction phase, the secret that the dealer shared. If the dealer is
dishonest, then we might have disagreements as diﬀerent moderators can make
the VSS go into diﬀerent directions. However, if one honest party believes that
the moderation of some Pj was successful, then all honest parties unanimously
output the same secret in the instance where Pj moderated.
Eﬃciency. The above mechanism is now problematic from an eﬃciency per-
spective. In particular, we tried to reduce the number of VSS executions from
n2 to O(n log n); instead, in each instance we have n moderators, and so we
get O(n2 log n) executions! Each VSS has O(n2 log2 n) bits over point-to-point

320
G. Asharov and A. Chandramouli
and O(n log n) bits gradecasted, which results in a total of O(n4 log n) bits over
point-to-point.
To circumvent this issue, we ﬁrst note that the point-to-point messages should
not be repeated between the n diﬀerent moderators inside a VSS execution.
Moreover, following the idea of [2], we let the dealer moderate all messages except
for the last message in which the execution “forks” into n diﬀerent executions,
corresponding to the n moderators. Each moderator echos just the last round (a
vote on whether to accept or reject the shares of the dealer).
However, this idea alone does not fully address our requirements. Even echo-
ing the last message proves to be prohibitively costly. To put it into perspective,
echoing n bits of votes across n dealers, overseen by n moderators, results in the
gradecast of n3 bits. When accounting for the inherent overhead of gradecast,
we are confronted once again with a total communication cost of O(n4).
To achieve the desired communication eﬃciency, we implement a batching
mechanism wherein a single message is echoed by each moderator, applicable to
the n distinct dealers they oversee. In essence, this identical message is utilized
across multiple VSS executions, providing a substantial reduction in commu-
nication complexity. In [20], there are n2 independent executions, one for each
(i, j) ∈[n]2 where Pi is the dealer, and Pj is the moderator. In [2], there are n
independent executions, for every Pi, i ∈[n], where each execution is one dealer
with n moderators at the same time. In our case, we have one big execution that
contains O(n log n) secrets. That is, in our case, all the diﬀerent VSSes intertwine
- the same message of the moderator is used across the diﬀerent dealers.
More precisely, each moderator gradecasts a single message of size O(n), and
this message is shared across all executions, serving as a universal indicator for
which dealers’ shares should be accepted or rejected. In the context of the n
moderators, our approach results in a gradecast of ˜O(n2) bits, which, when fac-
toring the gradecast overhead, totals to ˜O(n3). This optimization substantially
improves the overall communication complexity. We refer the reader to Sects. 5
and 6 for more details.
2.2
Eﬃcient Statistical VSS
We show a statistically secure VSS with low broadcast cost. We start with a
brief overview of the VSS protocol of Ben Or, Goldwasser and Wigderson [10];
we then overview the VSS protocol of Abraham et al. [3] and proceed to our
protocol. At a very high level, in [10], each party broadcasts O(n log n) bits and
the dealer might broadcast up to O(n2 log n) bits. The work of [3] shows how
to reduce the broadcast cost of the dealer to O(n log n). Our goal is to reduce
the cost of all parties except the dealer to O(log2 n) bits, albeit achieving only
statistical security (or even O(log n) bits, with a one over poly error probability).
Thus, in total we have O(n log n) bits broadcasted.
In this overview, we describe a statistically-secure protocol with negligible
error probability (in n), while for our OLE it suﬃces to have a one over poly
error.

Perfect (Parallel) Broadcast via Statistical VSS
321
Overview of the VSS of [10]. To share a secret s, the dealer chooses a bivariate
polynomial S(x, y) = t
k=0
t
ℓ=0 sk,ℓxkyℓof degree t in both x and y, where
s0,0 = s. The protocol is as follows:
1. Sharing:
The
dealer
gives
to
each
Pi
its
shares
(fi(x), gi(y))
=
(S(x, i), S(i, y)).
2. Pairwise consistency check: Pi sends to Pj the points (fi(j), gi(j)) =
(S(j, i), S(i, j)) = (gj(i), fj(i)). If Pi sees that the shares it received from the
dealer do not agree with the points it received from Pj it publicly broadcasts
a complaint complaint(i, j, fi(j), gi(j)).
3. The dealer resolves complaints: Note that in each complaint, Pi is sup-
posed to provide the values it received from the dealer, not those that it
received from Pj. If the dealer notices some public complaint that is wrong,
i.e., contains points that it did not provide Pi, it completely reveals the shares
of that complaining party, by broadcasting (i, S(x, i), S(i, y)).
4. If a party Pj sees that (1) all polynomials that the dealer made public agree
with its private share; (2) its share was not made public; (3) if there is a joint
complaint - two parties Pk and Pℓthat disagree with one another, then the
dealer must publicly reveal the share of one of them. If all those conditions
are met, then Pi is happy. If there are 2t + 1 parties that are happy, then the
shares are accepted.
If the dealer is honest, then their shares are always consistent and honest parties
never complain on honest parties; Moreover, all honest parties are happy. Fur-
thermore, the adversary learns nothing new in the veriﬁcation process – note that
all possibly revealed shares are shares of corrupted parties, which the adversary
has anyways.
If the dealer is corrupted, then 2t + 1 parties that are happy implies that
there is a core set of at least t + 1 honest parties that are happy. The shares of
these honest parties must agree with each other; otherwise, those parties would
have raised a complaint and the dealer must have publicly reveal one of them.
The shares of those happy honest parties uniquely deﬁne a bivariate polynomial
S′(x, y) of degree t in both variables. Moreover, all other honest parties must
hold shares on that polynomial – if some honest Pi initially held a polynomial
that disagrees with some Pj that is in the core set, then both Pi and Pj raised
a complaint. Since Pj is in the core set, then the dealer must have resolved
this complaint by revealing the share of Pi, and the entire core veriﬁed this
polynomial (and therefore, it must agree with S′(x, y)).
Costs, and the VSS Protocol of [3]. All broadcasts in the above protocol
are marked in bold: Each party might broadcast up to O(n) complaints; The
dealer might broadcast O(n2 log n) bits (e.g., revealing the shares of t parties).
The protocol of [3] provides a key improvement that we borrow: it reduces the
broadcast cost of the dealer from O(n2 log n) to O(n log n). The goal was to
allow batching of many parallel instances of VSS (with the same dealer) with
the same broadcast cost of just one instance. Towards that end, all broadcasts
made by the dealer should not be instance speciﬁc (e.g., revealing shares), but

322
G. Asharov and A. Chandramouli
information that is useful across multiple instances. We use batching and beneﬁt
from this reduction in the broadcast cost of the dealer.
To elaborate further, instead of the dealer broadcasting the shares of each
party that falsely complained, [3] let the dealer just broadcast a set CONFLICTS
of the identities of parties that raised false complaints. In a sense, the dealer
“revokes” the shares of all parties in CONFLICTS. Yet, the parties cannot con-
clude the protocol unless all parties in CONFLICTS receive correct shares. At
this point, there are three possible outcomes:
1. Discard the dealer - this might occur when there is a joint complaint that was
not resolved (Pi complaint against Pj but none of them is in CONFLICTS),
or when the dealer broadcasts a set CONFLICTS that contains more than t
parties.
2. If |CONFLICTS| > t/2 then there are too many shares “to correct”. Instead
of publicly broadcasting the shares of those parties, they are all just set to
be 0, and the protocol is restarted while the dealer chooses a new bivariate
polynomial where all the shares of all parties in CONFLICTS are set to be 0.
In that case, the dealer, in a sense, publicly reveals their shares, but without
broadcasting them. In the next iteration, parties do not expect to receive
shares from parties in CONFLICTS, and each party Pi veriﬁes that fi(j) =
gi(j) = 0 for j ∈CONFLICTS. Formally, the parties maintain a public set
ZEROS of parties whose shares are set to be 0 and before the next iteration
ZEROS is updated to ZEROS ∪CONFLICTS. Note that we can restart only
once as restarting twice means that the dealer tries to revoke > t/2 + t/2 = t
parties (|ZEROS| > t/2 and |CONFLICTS| > t/2) and is being discarded.
3. Otherwise, the parties proceed to a sub-protocol where they reconstruct all
shares of parties in CONFLICTS, with the help of the dealer. We elaborate on
this part later below.
Our Goal: Reducing the Broadcast Cost. Note that if the parties decide to
proceed, then we have binding – there is a unique bivariate polynomial S(x, y)
of degree at most t in x and y, such that all honest parties that are not in
CONFLICTS hold shares on S(x, y). This is because each pair of honest parties
that disagree with each other must have raised a joint complaint, and the dealer
must have included at least one of them in CONFLICTS. Therefore, all shares
of honest parties not in CONFLICTS must agree, and thus deﬁne a bivariate
polynomial of the appropriate degree. Moreover, note that all honest parties
that are not in CONFLICTS have shares, and that |CONFLICTS| < t/2; as such,
at least t + t/2 + 1 honest parties have shares (as opposed to just t + 1 as the
core set in [10]) – not only that there is a well deﬁned polynomial, but there is
also some redundancy.
For reconstructing the shares of parties in CONFLICTS, it is crucial that all
honest parties that are not in CONFLICTS have shares that agree with each
other. However, this is achieved using the fact that each party complains against
each party that they did not agree with. But this requires a high broadcast cost.

Perfect (Parallel) Broadcast via Statistical VSS
323
To reduce the broadcast cost, we instruct each party to limit the number of
complaints they ﬁle. Speciﬁcally, each party now randomly samples O(log2 n)
complaints out of the O(n) that it might have. This raises two questions – (1)
why O(log2 n) complaints suﬃce; (2) What if Pi chooses Pj but Pj picked other
parties? In that case, we would not have a joint complaint, and the dealer can
just ignore complaints without being discarded.
Addressing the second question is easy. We just add one more round of com-
plaints – if a party Pi complains against Pj, and Pj did not choose to complain
against Pi in the ﬁrst round of complaints, then it complains against it at the
second round of complaints. This approach eﬀectively doubles the number of
complaints, maintaining the overall count at O(log2 n) per party. However, this
additional step guarantees that if two honest parties disagree, and one picks the
other in its random choices, then all parties will see a joint complaint, forcing
the dealer to resolve it.
To address the ﬁrst question, we claim that with high probability – O(log2 n)
complaints by each party suﬃce to have binding with overwhelming probability
(in n). To see why it holds, consider for simplicity the case where all honest
parties (that are not in CONFLICTS) agree with each other, except for some
party Pi. In that case, we have a set of t + t/2 honest parties that agree with
each other. Moreover, Pi has a polynomial of degree t – and therefore, it must
disagree with at least t/2 parties in the core, and not just one. Each one of these
parties picks O(log2 n) random complaints – the probability that none of those
random choices made by either i, or by those t/2 parties that disagree with Pi,
is bounded by ((1 −1/n)t/2)log2 n, which is negligible in n. This argument is
generalized to other cases beyond this simple case of all honest parties agreeing
but one. We remark again that for our purpose of broadcast, it suﬃces that
each party chooses O(log n) complaints out of the O(n) that it might have; this
results in an error probability of O(1/polyn).
Reconstruction of Shares for Parties in CONFLICTS. In the second stage
of the protocol, the parties face the challenge of reconstructing the shares of
all parties within the CONFLICTS set on the bivariate polynomial S(x, y). We
cannot simply adopt the approach used in [10], where the dealer broadcasts
these shares, because doing so would require a broadcast of O(n2 log n) bits by
the dealer. Moreover, it’s not feasible for each party Pk (for k /∈CONFLICTS) to
directly transmit the value fk(j) to each party Pj (for j ∈CONFLICTS), as in the
worst-case scenario, where we have t+t/2+1 correct points and possibly t errors,
party Pj might fail to decode its share. Similarly, public reconstruction (utilizing
the dealer to eliminate errors) is not viable either, as it would necessitate each
party (k /∈CONFLICTS) to broadcast O(n log n) bits, once again resulting in a
total broadcast of O(n2 log n) bits. We remark that public reconstruction is the
approach taken in [3]. Here we take a diﬀerent route to reduce the broadcast
complexity.
Instead of reconstructing the f and g polynomials of parties in CONFLICTS
as in [3], we reconstruct just the points gj(0) = S(j, 0) for each party j ∈
CONFLICTS. This suﬃces, as together with the shares of the parties that

324
G. Asharov and A. Chandramouli
are in CONFLICTS, the parties can reconstruct the polynomial S(x, 0) in the
reconstruction phase, which suﬃces for reconstructing S(0, 0). As an immedi-
ate consequence, our protocol for the reconstruction of the shares for parties in
CONFLICTS requires each of the parties to broadcast only O(log n) bits.
Assume without loss of generality, and for simplicity of notation, that the set
CONFLICTS = {1, . . . , c} where c ≤t/2. Consider the c × t bivariate polynomial
V (x, y) = c
j=1 xj−1 · S(j, y). Our goal is to publicly reconstruct the degree c
univariate polynomial f V
0 (x) := V (x, 0) := c
j=1 xj−1 ·S(j, 0). Observe that the
coeﬃcients for this polynomial are S(j, 0) for every j ∈CONFLICTS. The parties
will reconstruct this polynomial V (x, 0) publicly, and then they can recover
S(1, 0), . . . , S(c, 0), as required. Moreover, note that this is a polynomial of degree
at most c ≤t/2.
Towards that end, each party Pk for k ̸∈CONFLICTS can locally compute
f V
k (x) := V (x, k) =
c

j=1
xj−1 · S(j, k) =
c

j=1
xj−1 · fk(j) .
Each Pk sends f V
k (i) to each party Pi for i ̸∈CONFLICTS. Now each such
party Pi tries to reconstruct V (i, y) from all the points (f V
k (i))k̸∈CONFLICTS that
it received. Note that V (i, y) is of degree t, and since |CONFLICTS| ≤t/2, Pi
receives at least t + t/2 + 1 correct points, but might receive up to t incor-
rect points. Once received more than t/2 incorrect points, there is no unique
reconstruction. In that case, Pi broadcasts complaint(i). If Pi successfully learns
V (i, y), then it can compute f V
0 (i) = V (i, 0) and publish it. The dealer (which
knows V (x, y)) listen to all published messages, and add to a set Bad all parties
that complaints or that published incorrect values. The dealer broadcasts Bad.
The parties discard the dealer if Bad is too large, or restart the pro-
tocol if |Bad| > t/2. Otherwise, |Bad| ≤t/2, and the dealer “conﬁrmed”
n −|CONFLICTS| −|Bad| ≥n −t/2 −t/2 ≥2t + 1 points on a univariate
polynomial f V
0 (x). All the points on this polynomial are public, and the dealer
must take care that all points (for those it did not include in Bad) must lie on
a unique univariate polynomial of degree at most c ≤t/2 (by including parties
in Bad if some point is incorrect). If not, then the dealer is publicly discarded.
Therefore, we are guaranteed that all parties have f V
0 (x), and from its coeﬃ-
cients, all parties learn the values g1(0), . . . , gc(0).
We note that the above share reconstruction protocol is perfectly secure (as
opposed to the ﬁrst part, which was just statistically secure). Moreover, each
party broadcasts just O(log n) bits, and the dealer broadcasts O(n log n) bits,
leading to a total of O(n log n) bits broadcasted.
2.3
Putting It All Together
We now present our overall broadcast protocol, which follows the paradigm of [20,
25]. We also refer the reader to [6] for an overview of the diﬀerent primitives. To
broadcast a message L:

Perfect (Parallel) Broadcast via Statistical VSS
325
1. The sender gradecasts the message L. Each party receives a message Li with
a grade gi ∈{0, 1, 2}.
2. The parties run Byzantine agreement on the grade gi. If gi = 2 then the
input of the Byzantine agreement is 1. Otherwise, it is 0. Byzantine agreement
intuitively works as follows:
(a) The parties try to see if they all hold the same bit as input. Along the
way, they send to each other the input bit. If they agree - they halt and
output that bit.
(b) If there is no agreement – they obliviously elect a leader. They run the
protocol again with the leader’s value that was sent in the previous step.
Gradecasting a message of size L requires O(nL + n2 log n) communication [37].
Our OLE requires O(n3 log2 n), and the additional messages of Byzantine agree-
ment require O(n2) bits per iteration. Overall we get O(nL) plus expected
O(n3 log2 n) with an expected constant number of rounds. The costs are
described in Fig. 1. We denote the costs that we improve in red in Fig. 1a and in
green in Fig. 1b.
Fig. 1. The structure of Broadcast, including costs before and after our improvements.
Our improvements are in oblivious leader election and in (moderated) batched VSS.
We use the gradecast protocol of [37] which we denote in blue. (Color ﬁgure online)
Parallel Broadcast. For our parallel broadcast, we can follow the idea of Fitzi
and Garay [23] and use a single election across all instances. That is, each party
gradecasts its message, and then the parties run n instances of Byzantine agree-
ment where they use the same leader across all n instances. Once an honest
leader is chosen, all instances can reach agreement. Since we have n gradecasts,
we get cost of O(n2L + n3 log n) for the gradecasts, and in addition O(n3 log2 n)
per instance of OLE, leading to O(n2L) plus expected O(n3 log2 n) with expected
constant number of rounds.
Organization. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Sect. 3, we
provide the preliminaries, while some are deferred to the full version [6]. In Sect. 4
we provide our statistical veriﬁable secret sharing, and in Sect. 5 we provide our

326
G. Asharov and A. Chandramouli
batched multi-moderated VSS. We present the OLE protocol in Sect. 6 and the
broadcast protocol and parallel broadcast in Sect. 7.
3
Preliminaries
We consider the set of parties represented by identities in [n] := {1, . . . , n} who
are connected by pair-wise private and authenticated channels. We alternate as
convenient between referring to parties by their identity i ∈[n] or as Pi where i ∈
[n]. In our veriﬁable secret sharing protocol we assume the parties have access to a
broadcast channel as well. Up to t < n/3 of the parties are maliciously corrupted
by a computationally unbounded active adversary A. Our security proofs are all
in the standalone model for a static adversary. The standalone security implies
adaptive security with ineﬃcient simulation [13] and universal composability [12]
due to [27]. We provide the formal security deﬁnition in the full version [6].
We also assume for our protocols the existence of a ﬁnite ﬁeld F where |F| >
n+1 and the set of values {0, 1, . . . , n} is a distinct set of elements known apriori
to all the parties.
In the full version [6], we provide additional deﬁnitions, including statisti-
cal security, hybrid model and composition, and some properties on bivariate
polynomials. We also provide the ideal functionalities for our ﬁnal primitives –
Broadcast and Byzantine agreement.
Adaptive Security. As mentioned, we need to prove the security of our sta-
tistical primitives against an adaptive adversary (otherwise, since parts of our
protocol are just statistically secure, adaptive security of those parts cannot be
derived for free from [13]). We follow the deﬁnition of adaptive corruptions from
[7]. However, our statistical primitives are reactive and we need to make slight
changes to the deﬁnition from [7]. [7, Sect. 2.4] deﬁnes adaptive corruptions for
a computation at each of the following stages: (1) before inputs; and (2) after
inputs and computation; and (3) post-execution. It thus suﬃces to allow the
adaptive ideal world adversary perform adaptive corruptions (1) before a reac-
tive interaction; and (2) after the reactive interaction; and (3) after the ideal
functionality has ﬁnished executing. Note that for an ideal functionality with
exactly one interaction (non-reactive) the above is identical to the adaptive def-
inition of [7].
4
Statistical Veriﬁable Secret Sharing
In this section, we provide our statistically secure veriﬁable secret sharing, which
has low broadcast cost. In Sect. 4.1, we give the sharing attempt protocol, where
the dealer tries to share its secret, but it might fail. At the end of an execu-
tion of the sharing attempt, there exists a set CONFLICTS of parties of size at
most t/2 such that each honest party Pj ̸∈CONFLICTS holds fj(x), gj(y) where
fj(x) = S(x, j), gj(y) = S(j, y) for some unique degree-(t, t) bivariate polyno-
mial S(x, y). Furthermore, if the dealer was honest, no honest party is included

Perfect (Parallel) Broadcast via Statistical VSS
327
in CONFLICTS. Speciﬁcally, at the end of a sharing attempt, one of the following
outcomes occurs:
1. If |CONFLICTS| > t/2, then the protocol is restarted (after publicly ﬁxing
the shares of the parties in CONFLICTS).
2. The dealer is discarded;
3. |CONFLICTS| ≤t/2. In this case, the protocol proceeds to reconstruct the
shares of the parties in CONFLICTS. See Sect. 4.2.
4.1
Sharing Attempt
We realize the sharing attempt functionality (see the full version [6]) with only
statistical security and hence we need to additionally prove the adaptive security
of our protocol. In the ideal execution, the adversary may adaptively corrupt
parties after each interaction between the parties and the ideal functionality.
Protocol 4.1: ΠShareAttempt
Input: All parties input ZEROS ⊂[n]. The dealer, denoted as the party P for
simplicity, inputs a polynomial S(x, y) with degree t in x and y, such that for
each Pi ∈ZEROS it holds that S(x, i) = 0 and S(i, y) = 0.
The protocol:
1. (Dealing shares): The dealer P sends (fi(x), gi(y)) = (S(x, i), S(i, y)) to
Pi ̸∈ZEROS. Each Pi ∈ZEROS sets (fi(x), gi(y)) = (0, 0).
2. (Pairwise Consistency Checks):
(a) Each Pi ̸∈ZEROS sends (fi(j), gi(j)) to every Pj ̸∈ZEROS. Let (fji, gji)
be the values received by Pi from Pj.
(b) Initialize a set Complaintsi = ∅. If it holds that fji ̸= gi(j) or gji ̸= fi(j)
then add j to Complaintsi.
(c) If there exists a j ∈ZEROS for which fi(j) ̸= 0 or gi(j) ̸= 0, then
broadcast (complaint, i).
3. (Random Complaints):
(a) Pi samples a set Si by choosing m elements from [n] (with replacements).
(b) For every j ∈Complaintsi ∩Si, the party Pi broadcasts
(complaint, i, j, fi(j), gi(j)).
4. (Conﬁrming Random Complaints):
(a) For each Pj that broadcast (complaint, j, i, ·, ·), if j ∈Complaintsi and
Pj broadcasted at most R complaints in the previous step, then Pi also
broadcasts (complaint, i, j, fi(j), gi(j)).
5. (Conﬂict Resolution):
(a) P sets CONFLICTS = φ. Add i ̸∈ZEROS to CONFLICTS if one of the fol-
lowing occurs: (a) Pi broadcasted (complaint, i); (b) Pi broadcasted more
than m complaints in Step 3b; (c) Pi broadcasted (complaint, i, j, u, v)
such that u ̸= S(j, i) or v ̸= S(i, j).
(b) P broadcasts CONFLICTS.
6. (Output):

328
G. Asharov and A. Chandramouli
(a) Each Pi outputs discard if any one of the following does not hold: (i)
ZEROS ∩CONFLICTS = φ; (ii) |ZEROS ∪CONFLICTS| ≤t; (iii) if Pi
broadcasts (complaint, i) but i ̸∈CONFLICTS; (iv) If Pi broadcasted more
than m complaints in Step 3b but i ̸∈CONFLICTS; (v) If Pi broadcasted
(complaint, i, j, ui, vi) and Pj broadcasted (complaint, i, j, uj, vj) with ui ̸=
vj or vi ̸= uj, and neither i or j in CONFLICTS.
(b) If |CONFLICTS| > t/2, then each Pi outputs (detect, CONFLICTS).
(c) Else, Pi ∈CONFLICTS outputs (proceed, ⊥, ⊥, CONFLICTS) and Pi ̸∈
CONFLICTS outputs (proceed, fi(x), gi(y), CONFLICTS).
The simulation for the sharing attempt protocol of [3] can be repurposed
to work for our protocol; however, it is conditioned on the following event: all
conﬂicts between honest parties is resolved by the dealer. Towards that end, we
provide the following upper bound on the probability that the above event occurs
and defer the proof for the security of Protocol 4.1 to the full version [6].
To formalize the above event, we ﬁrst deﬁne a clique. A set C ⊆[n] is a clique
if for each ordered pair i, j ∈C it holds that the parties Pi and Pj agreed with
each other in Step 2c, i.e., Pi did not include Pj in Complaintsi.
Claim 4.2. The probability that all honest parties (at the end of the protocol)
output proceed but there is no clique C ⊆H among the honest parties (H is
the set of parties that remain honest until the end of the protocol) that are not
in CONFLICTS is at most ϵ = n · e−m/6. Recall that m is the size of the set Si
chosen by each party Pi in Step 3b.
Proof. Let K = H \ CONFLICTS where H is the set of honest parties at the
end of the protocol. Since |CONFLICTS| ≤t/2 and |H| ≥2t + 1, we have that
|K| ≥t + t/2 + 1. Let Bad denote the following events:
Bad: The parties output proceed but there is no clique among K; Namely,
all parties in K output proceed but the maximal clique C ⊆K is of size
< |K|, where C is a clique if for every i, j ∈C it holds that i ̸∈Complaintsj
and j ̸∈Complaintsi.
Badc: The parties output proceed but the maximal clique C ⊆K is of size
c, where C is a clique if for every i, j ∈C it holds that i ̸∈Complaintsj and
j ̸∈Complaintsi.
It is easy to see that Bad = |K|−1
c=1
Badc.
Bounding the Probability of Badc. We deﬁne diﬀerent cases according to the
size of c (the maximal clique). We start as a warm up with the case of c = |K|−1:
The Case of c = |K| −1. In this case, the shares of the parties in C deﬁne a
unique bivariate polynomial of degree t × t. In particular, this means that there
exists some Pj that can agree with at most t parties in C, that is, |Complaintsj ∩
C| ≥|C| −t = |K| −1 −t. When Pj broadcasts its complaints, it did not pick

Perfect (Parallel) Broadcast via Statistical VSS
329
any one of those parties, and likewise, those |K|−1−t ≥t+t/2+1−1−t ≥t/2
parties did not complain against Pj. Otherwise, we must have a joint complaint,
and the dealer must have included one of the two parties in CONFLICTS or be
discarded. In particular, each one of those ≥t/2 chose m elements in [n], none
of them is j. Therefore,
Pr

Bad|K|−1

≤
n −1
n
mt/2
≤

1 −1
n
nm/6
≤e−m/6.
The Case of c ≥t + 1. As in the previous case, the shares of the parties in C
deﬁne a unique bivariate polynomial of degree t×t. Moreover, there is a set J of
at least |K|−c honest parties that are not in the clique C. Each one of those Pj,
for j ∈J has |Complaintsj ∩C| ≥1, as otherwise we would have a larger clique.
In fact, since the degree of the polynomial is t, Pj can agree with at most t
parties in C. As such, |Complaintsj ∩C| ≥c −t (≥1) When randomly choosing
the complaints, each Pj did not pick the c −t parties it disagreed with from C.
Likewise, there are at least c −t parties in C that did not pick a corresponding
(at least one) element in J, and the parties in C did not pick those parties in J.
We get:
Pr [Badc] ≤
n −1
n
m|K|−c
·
n −1
n
mc−t
≤
n −1
n
mt/2
≤e−m/6,
where we use the fact that |K| ≥t + t/2 + 1 and so |K| −t ≥t/2.
The Case of c < t + 1. In that case, there is a set of |K| −c ≥t/2 parties,
and each one of them disagrees with at least one party in C, and does not pick
a disagreeing party when complaining. We have:
Pr [Badc] ≤
n −1
n
mt/2
· e−m/6.
Putting It All Together. By a simple union bound, we can bound:
Pr [Bad] ≤|K|−1
c=1
Pr [Badc] ≤n · e−m/6 = ϵ.
⊓⊔
As mentioned before, the simulator constructed in the proof of security for
the sharing attempt protocol of [3] can be re-purposed to work for our protocol.
However, as our protocol is only statistically secure we cannot derive adaptive
security directly from [13]. We provide the adaptive simulation security proof for
our statistical sharing attempt protocol in the full version [6].
Theorem 4.3. Protocol ΠShareAttempt (Protocol 4.1), securely computes the func-
tionality FShareAttempt (see [6]) with statistical security, in the presence of a mali-
cious adaptive adversary controlling at most t < n/3 except with probability
ϵ = n · e−m/6. The total communication complexity is O(n2 log n) bits over
point-to-point channels; The dealer broadcasts O(n log n) bits, and each other
party broadcasts O(m log n) bits.

330
G. Asharov and A. Chandramouli
4.2
Reconstructing Shares
In the reconstruction phase, each party j ∈CONFLICTS is able to reconstruct a
share sj = S(j, 0). Note that the parties not in CONFLICTS do not learn their
entire share but just sj. Moreover, this is suﬃcient to guarantee reconstruction
of S(0, 0). Looking ahead, one of the following is possible after an execution of
Protocol 4.4:
1. The parties in CONFLICTS successfully reconstruct their shares. In this case,
the parties hold a sharing on the polynomial q(x) = S(x, 0) (where the secret
is q(0) = S(0, 0) as required).
2. At most t/2 additional conﬂicts are identiﬁed. In this case, the protocol is
restarted from the sharing attempt (Protocol 4.1).
3. More than t/2 additional conﬂicts are identiﬁed. In this case, the dealer is
discarded.
Protocol 4.4: Πrec-shares: A Protocol for Reconstructing the shares
Input: All parties hold the same set CONFLICTS and ZEROS. Each honest party
not in CONFLICTS holds a pair of polynomials (fi(x), gi(y)), and it is guaranteed
that all the shares of honest parties lie on the same bivariate polynomial S(x, y)
with degree at most t in x and y. Without loss of generality, let CONFLICTS =
{1, . . . , c} where c ≤t/2.
The protocol:
1. Every party sets HAVE-SHARES = [n] \ (ZEROS ∪CONFLICTS).
2. Computing f V
i (x):
(a) Each party Pi ̸∈CONFLICTS computes the degree c polynomial:
f V
i (x) :=
c

k=1
xk−1 · fi(k) .
It sends to each party Pj for j ̸∈CONFLICTS the value ui→j = f V
i (j).
3. Computing gV
i (y):
(a) Let uj→i be the value that Pj sent Pi in the previous step (and take
uj→i = 0 for j ∈ZEROS). Pi attempts to ﬁnd a unique polynomial gV
i (y)
of degree at most t satisfying gV
i (j) = uj→i for every j ̸∈CONFLICTS,
with at most t/2 errors.
(b) If there is no unique reconstruction, then Pi broadcasts complaint(i).
(c) If there is a unique reconstruction, then Pi broadcasts reveal(i, gV
i (0)).
4. Dealer – Complaint Resolution
(a) The dealer sets Bad = φ. For each complaint(i) broadcasted by Pi, add i
to Bad.
(b) For every reveal(i, ui) broadcasted by Pi, the dealer checks if
ui =
c

k=1
ik−1 · S(k, 0)
If not, then it adds i to Bad. The dealer broadcasts Bad.

Perfect (Parallel) Broadcast via Statistical VSS
331
5. Output:
(a) Discard: discard the dealer if any one of the following holds: (1) There
exists Pi that broadcasted complaint(i) but i ̸∈Bad; (2) If ZEROS ∩
Bad ̸= ∅; (3) |ZEROS ∪CONFLICTS ∪Bad| > t; (4) If the set of points
K = {(j, uj)}j̸∈(CONFLICTS∪Bad∪ZEROS) ∪{(j, 0)}j∈ZEROS not all lie on a
univariate polynomial f V
0 (y) of degree c.
If any one of the above holds, output discard.
(b) Large detection: Otherwise, if |Bad| > t/2 then output (detect, Bad).
(c) Proceed: Otherwise, if Pi for i ̸∈CONFLICTS outputs gi(0). Pi for i ∈
CONFLICTS reconstructs f V
0 (x) from the set of points K as above, and
outputs the coeﬃcient of the xi−1 term.
For brevity, we present the corresponding ideal functionality and the proof
of the following theorem in the full version [6].
Theorem 4.5. Πrec-shares (Protocol 4.4) securely computes the functionality
Frec-shares (see [6]) with perfect security, in the presence of a malicious adver-
sary controlling at most t < n/3 parties. The total communication complexity
is O(n2 log n) bits over point-to-point channels; The dealer broadcasts O(n log n)
bits and each other party broadcasts O(log n) bits.
4.3
Statistical VSS Protocol
In the entire VSS protocol, the dealer ﬁrst attempt to share its secret using
the sharing attempt protocol. The parties then either proceed to discarding the
dealer, or to another sharing attempt, or to reconstruct the shares of parties in
CONFLICTS. We present the entire VSS protocol and the proof of secure in the
full version [6].
Statistical Security After Composition. In the full version, we also show
that our protocol actually achieves adaptive security, and realizes an FVSS func-
tionality (which is also formally deﬁned in the full version). We obtain the fol-
lowing corollary:
Corollary 4.6. There exists a protocol that statistically realizes the functional-
ity FVSS against t < n/3 adaptive corruptions such that the statistical error for
the protocol is ϵ < 2n · e−m/6.
Note that in each invocation to ΠVSS, there is a statistical error of at most
n · e−m/6 and due to the repetitions the number of invocations to FShareAttempt is
at most 2. From the deﬁnition of statistical security, it holds that the statistical
error for the composed sharing protocol is at most 2n · e−m/6.
Batching. The protocol ΠVSS that we discussed so far incurs a communication
complexity of O(n2 log n) bits over the point-to-point channels. Additionally,
each party broadcasts O(m log n) bits (= poly log n) and the dealer broadcasts
O(n log n) bits. Towards reducing the cost, we batch the broadcast costs among
multiple instances.

332
G. Asharov and A. Chandramouli
1. Batching broadcast in the sharing attempt. The dealer inputs L bivari-
ate polynomials, and the same set ZEROS is used across all instances, that
is, each bivariate has zero shares for parties in the set ZEROS. The par-
ties chooses R elements and broadcasts complaints with respect to one of
the bivariates where there was a conﬂict. The complaint is now of the form
(complaint, i, j, ℓ, fℓ
i (j), gℓ
i(j)) where Sℓ(x, y) is the ℓth bivariate. The parties
conﬁrm the random complaints as before with ℓincluded in the complaint.
The dealer then computes a single CONFLICTS set after checking the com-
plaints with each bivariate. As discussed in [3], a joint complaint in some
instance (say the lexicographically smallest index) must be resolved by the
dealer and consistency must hold across all bivariates.
2. Batching dealer’s broadcast in the share reconstruction. We note
that our share reconstruction protocol already batches the reconstruction of
the shares of parties in CONFLICTS by embedding all the shares of par-
ties in CONFLICTS in a polynomial u(y) and robustly reconstructing u(0).
Thus, our protocol already performs a batching of the reconstruction of
|CONFLICTS| = O(n) values and it is unclear how the same technique can
be extended to the reconstruction of O(nL) values. However, the dealer com-
putes a single Bad set by checking the parties’ broadcasted values with each
bivariate. After removing the parties in the dealer’s broadcasted Bad set, the
broadcasted values must determine a unique polynomial for each instance
(else, the dealer is discarded). Hence, all the reconstructed shares must be
correct on each bivariate. The dealer broadcasts O(n log n) bits however each
party broadcasts O(m log n) bits.
The cost of the batched VSS is O(Ln2 log n) bits on the point-to-point chan-
nels, the dealer broadcasts O(n log n) bits and each party broadcasts O(m log n)
bits. Looking ahead, we will set m = poly log n and L = m which allows us to
achieve the reduced cost for oblivious leader election. The protocol is statistically
secure, with statistical error ϵ < 2n · e−m/6. The exact details appear in the full
version [6].
5
Batched Multi-moderated Veriﬁable Secret Sharing
As mentioned in the overview (Sect. 2.1), we replace the broadcast in the VSS
with a gradecast [37]. However, we need the help of moderators to make this
substitution more robust. We use all parties as moderators. Corresponding to
each moderator Mj, each party Pk holds a pair of ﬂags vk
Mj and dk
Mj:
– The ﬂag vk
Mj ∈{0, 1} indicates if Pk believes that Mj moderated the broad-
casts correctly, that is, if the parties agree on the outputs of the moderated
broadcasts. If at least one honest party Pk holds vk
Mj = 1, then the moderated
broadcast of Mj are identical to the actual broadcast. If Mj is honest, then
each honest party Pk holds vk
Mj = 1.
– The ﬂag dk
Mj ∈{0, 1} indicates if Pk accepts the dealer’s share based on the
simulated broadcast messages of Mj.

Perfect (Parallel) Broadcast via Statistical VSS
333
see the formal description of the functionality in the full version [6].
The Protocol. Our multi-moderated VSS protocol below is exactly the same as
our VSS protocol with the broadcasts carefully replaced by simulated broadcasts.
Until the output has to be computed, the dealer acts as the moderator for
the broadcasts of the parties, that is, for each message m that needs to be
broadcasted by a party, the party gradecasts m followed by the dealer’s gradecast
of the same message. Once the protocol reaches the output stage, we artiﬁcially
add an additional round of public voting by the parties which is then moderated
by every other party acting as a moderator. This additional round allows us to
compress the size of the messages that the diﬀerent n parties have to moderate.
Each party gradecasts the decision on the dealer (accept or reject). Each
party acting as a moderator, then gradecasts the decision d on the dealer and a
set of parties Bad such that:
1. d = 1 if and only if t + 1 at least accept votes were received with grade 2.
2. k ∈Bad if and only if Pk’s vote was received with a grade < 2.
The ﬂags for each moderator are then set by the parties based on the grades
in the gradecast decisions and (d, Bad). Speciﬁcally, an honest party sets a high
grade for a moderator if and only if any party that sent a vote with grade 0 is
included in Bad and the decision d is consistent with the votes of parties not
in Bad. We provide the ideal functionality Fmm-VSS, the protocol, and the proof
of the security of our protocol in the full version [6].
Corollary 5.1. There exists a protocol that statistically realizes the functional-
ity Fmm-VSS against t < n/3 corruptions such that the statistical error for the
protocol is ϵ < 2n · e−m/6.
Eﬃciency: The protocol Πmm-VSS (deﬁned in the full version) incurs a commu-
nication complexity of O(n3 log n) bits over the point-to-point channels. How-
ever, we will utilize certain batching techniques to maintain a communication
complexity of O(n3 log n) bits when running Πmm-VSS in parallel for multiple
dealers.
5.1
Reconstruction with Moderators
Protocol 5.2: ΠRec
mm-VSS
Input: Each party Pi holds si, (di
M)M∈[n] and (vi
M)M∈[n].
1. Each party sends si to all. Let (s′
1, . . . , s′
n) be the shares received.
2. If di
Mj = 1 for at least n −t parties Mj acting as the moderator, then use
Reed-Solomon decoding to reconstruct the unique degree t polynomial g(y)
that agrees with at least 2t+1 values s′
1, . . . , s′
n and set si = g(0). If no unique
decoding exists or if less than n −t moderators rejected, then set si = 0.
3. Output: Output si.

334
G. Asharov and A. Chandramouli
We provide the proof of the following theorem in the full version [6].
Theorem 5.3. If the dealer is honest, then all honest parties output the dealer’s
secret s. Else, if for each party Mj ∈[n] acting as a moderator, there exists an
honest party Pk with vk
Mj = 1, then each honest party Pk outputs the same secret
sk = s′.
Eﬃciency: The protocol ΠRec
mm-VSS (Protocol 5.2) incurs a communication com-
plexity of O(n2 log n) bits over the point-to-point channels.
5.2
Batching
Looking ahead in our oblivious leader election, each party Pℓis required to share
m (= poly log n) uniformly random values. We now show how each moderator
Mj can batch the gradecast in the moderation phase (Phase II) across multiple
instances of (moderated) sharing where each party Pℓacts as a dealer.
1. Before the moderation phase (Phase II), each party Pk gradecasts a bit aℓ
k
denoting the decision on the instance of sharing where Pℓacts as a dealer.
2. Mj computes a single set BadMj across all the instances. Speciﬁcally, Mj
includes i ∈BadMj if the gradecast of aℓ
i for any ℓ∈[n] by Pi yielded a grade
< 2 for the moderator Mj.
3. Mj computes the majority decision among aℓ
k for each ℓ∈[n] and k ̸∈BadMj
and denotes it as dℓ
Mj.
4. Mj gradecasts
	
dℓ
Mj

n
ℓ=1 , BadMj.
Each moderator Mj gradecasts Θ(n) bits (the n decisions dℓ
Mj and the set BadMj)
which incurs a total communication of O(n2 log n) bits for Mj and O(n3 log n)
bits across all moderators. Naively gradecasting n diﬀerent sets BadMj requires
each moderator Mj to gradecast Θ(n2) bits which yields a total communication
O(n3 log n) bits for Mj and O(n4 log n) bits across all moderators (which is not
suitable in our case).
We denote the batched multi-moderated secret sharing as Πmm-bVSS. For
brevity, we present the corresponding batched ideal functionality and theorem
in the full version [6].
6
Oblivious Leader Election
As mentioned before, we realize the same oblivious leader election functionality
as in [2]. We describe the functionality in detail in the full version [6].

Perfect (Parallel) Broadcast via Statistical VSS
335
Protocol 6.1: ΠOLE
1. Choose random hidden moderators: Each party Pi samples a set of
hidden moderators Mi by choosing m < n elements from [n] (with replace-
ments).
2. Choose and commit weights: Each party Pi acts as a dealer and chooses
ci→j as random values in {1, . . . , n4}, for every j ∈Mi. Pi then runs the
following m times in parallel, for each ℓ∈[m], where Pi acts as a dealer in
each instance:
(a) The dealer distributes the values (j, ci→j) for each j ∈Mi using Fmm-VSS
where Pi is the dealer.
(b) Each party Pk gets as output a share si,ℓ
k , outputs dk
i,j and a ﬂag vk
i,j for
each party Pj acting as moderator.
Note that the above is run for all dealers P1, . . . , Pn in parallel, where each
dealer has m parallel instances (in total m·n invocations). Upon completion,
let Successfuli be the set of moderators for which Pi holds a ﬂag v = 1 in all
executions, that is, Successfuli = {j | vi
d,j = 1 for all dealers d ∈[n]}.
3. Reconstruct the weights and recipients and pick a leader: The recon-
struction phase, ΠRec
mm-VSS (Protocol 5.2) of each of the above mn instances
of multi-moderated secret sharing is run in parallel to reconstruct the secrets
previously shared.
(a) Let Mk
i and the values ci→j for each i ∈[n], j ∈Mk
i denote Pk’s view of
the set Ri and ci→j for each i ∈[n], j ∈Mi, that is, the reconstructed
value for the instance where Pi was the dealer and chose j ∈Mi as a
hidden moderator (included in the reconstructed value for Pi’s instance).
(b) Pk sets ck
j =

i,j∈Mk
i
ci→j mod n4 and outputs j that minimizes ck
j among
all j ∈Successfulk (break ties arbitrarily).
The proof from [2,25] carries over almost verbatim in our case, conditioned
on the following event: For each party Pj which succeeds in the moderation,
some honest party Pk included Pj in its hidden moderator set Mi. We present
only the bound on the above event and defer the details of the proof to the full
version [6]. To that end, we ﬁrst deﬁne: Successful = 
k∈H Successfulk, where H
is the set of all parties that were honest at the end of phase 2.. We now deﬁne
Badj for j ∈Successful which deﬁnes the event that the party j was not chosen
as a hidden moderator by any honest dealer.
Badj: No Pk ∈H chose j ∈Mk.
We then deﬁne the event Bad as the disjunction of the events Badj over all
j ∈Successful. If Bad does not occur, then for each j ∈Successful there exists
some honest party Pk that chose Pj as a hidden moderator, that is, j ∈Mi.
Note that this is exactly the informal event we describe above.
Bad: 
j∈Successful Badj.

336
G. Asharov and A. Chandramouli
We now give a bound on the probability of Bad occurring.
Claim 6.2. The probability that Bad occurs is at most n · e−2m/3 where each
party chooses m hidden moderators in Protocol 6.1.
Proof. We ﬁrst upper bound Pr[Badj] and use a union bound over all parties in
Successful to give an upper bound on Pr[Bad]. The probability that no k ∈H
chooses j ∈Mk is 1 −1/n for each independent sample. For t < n/3, it holds
that |H| ≥2n/3 and hence,
Pr[Badj] ≤

1 −1
n
m|H|
≤

1 −1
n
n2m/3
≤e−2m/3.
From the deﬁnition of Bad and the fact that |H| ≤n, it must hold that Pr[Bad] ≤
n · Pr[Badj] ≤n · e−2m/3.
⊓⊔
For brevity, we present the proof of the following theorem in the full ver-
sion [6], and formally deﬁne the FOLE functionality:
Theorem 6.3. Protocol ΠOLE (Protocol 6.1), perfectly securely computes the
functionality FOLE, in the presence of a malicious adversary controlling at most
t < n/3 parties.
Eﬃciency: Each instance of Πmm-VSS incurs a cost of O(n2 log n) bits on the
point-to-point channels and gradecast of O(m log n) bits by each party. Since
there are O(mn) instances (which have the required batching modiﬁcations), the
total cost is thus O(mn3 log n) bits. Fixing m = 6 log 4n (suﬃces to realize obliv-
ious leader election) yields a total communication complexity of O(n3 log2 n).
7
Broadcast, and Parallel Broadcast
The protocols for Byzantine agreement, broadcast and parallel broadcast are
identical to the protocols of [2,23,25] and we present them in the full version [6]
for the completeness of our result.
Theorem 7.1. There exists a perfect Byzantine agreement protocol that in the
presence of a malicious adversary controlling at most t < n/3 parties and incurs
a communication complexity of O(n3 log2 n) bits in expectation.
Theorem 7.2. There exists a perfect broadcast protocol in the presence of a
malicious adversary controlling at most t < n/3 parties. For an input message
M of length L bits, the protocol incurs a communication complexity of O(nL)
bits and an additional O(n3 log2 n) bits in expectation with O(1) rounds in expec-
tation.
Parallel Broadcast. Consider the case when each party wishes to broadcast
some message of size L bits each. As in [2,23], a single election can be used
across the instances. Hence, we have the following corollary:

Perfect (Parallel) Broadcast via Statistical VSS
337
Corollary 7.3. There exists a perfectly secure parallel-broadcast in the presence
of a malicious adversary controlling at most t < n/3 parties. For n parties to
each broadcast L bits, the protocol incurs a communication complexity of O(n2L)
bits and an additional O(n3 log2 n) bits in expectation with O(1) rounds in expec-
tation.
Acknowledgements. We are grateful to Ittai Abraham and Eylon Yogev for helpful
discussions.
References
1. Abraham, I., Asharov, G.: Gradecast in synchrony and reliable broadcast in asyn-
chrony with optimal resilience, eﬃciency, and unconditional security. In: PODC
2022: ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing, Salerno, Italy,
25–29 July 2022, pp. 392–398. ACM (2022)
2. Abraham, I., Asharov, G., Patil, S., Patra, A.: Asymptotically free broadcast in
constant expected time via packed VSS. In: Kiltz, E., Vaikuntanathan, V. (eds.)
Theory of Cryptography - 20th International Conference, TCC 2022. LNCS, vol.
13747, pp. 384–414. Springer, Cham (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-
22318-1 14
3. Abraham, I., Asharov, G., Patil, S., Patra, A.: Detect, pack and batch: perfectly-
secure MPC with linear communication and constant expected time. In: Hazay,
C., Stam, M. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT 2023. LNCS, vol.
14005, pp. 251–281. Springer, Cham (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-
30617-4 9
4. Abraham, I., et al.: Communication complexity of Byzantine agreement, revisited.
Distrib. Comput. 36(1), 3–28 (2023)
5. Abraham, I., Lewis-Pye, A.: Phase-king through the lens of gradecast: a sim-
ple unauthenticated synchronous Byzantine agreement protocol. Decentralized
Thoughts, Blog Post (2022). https://decentralizedthoughts.github.io/2022-06-09-
phase-king-via-gradecast/
6. Asharov, G., Chandramouli, A.: Perfect (parallel) broadcast in constant expected
rounds via statistical VSS. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch. Paper 2024/376 (2024)
7. Asharov, G., Cohen, R., Shochat, O.: Static vs. adaptive security in perfect
MPC: a separation and the adaptive security of BGW. In: 3rd Conference on
Information-Theoretic Cryptography, ITC 2022. LIPIcs, vol. 230, pp. 15:1–15:16.
Schloss Dagstuhl - Leibniz-Zentrum f¨ur Informatik (2022)
8. Ben-Or, M.: Another advantage of free choice: completely asynchronous agreement
protocols (extended abstract). In: Proceedings of the Annual Symposium on Prin-
ciples of Distributed Computing (PODC) (1983)
9. Ben-Or, M., Dolev, D., Hoch, E.N.: Brief announcement: simple gradecast based
algorithms. In: Lynch, N.A., Shvartsman, A.A. (eds.) Distributed Computing, 24th
International Symposium, DISC 2010, Cambridge, MA, USA, 13–15 September
2010. Proceedings. LNCS, vol. 6343, pp. 194–197. Springer, Cham (2010). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-15763-9 18
10. Ben-Or, M., Goldwasser, S., Wigderson, A.: Completeness theorems for non-
cryptographic fault-tolerant distributed computation (extended abstract). In: Pro-
ceedings of Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (1988)

338
G. Asharov and A. Chandramouli
11. Berman, P., Garay, J.A., Perry, K.J.: Bit optimal distributed consensus. In: Baeza-
Yates, R., Manber, U. (eds.) Computer Science. Springer, Cham (1992). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4615-3422-8 27
12. Canetti, R.: Security and composition of multiparty cryptographic protocols. J.
Cryptol. 13(1), 143–202 (2000)
13. Canetti, R., Damgaard, I., Dziembowski, S., Ishai, Y., Malkin, T.: On adaptive
vs. non-adaptive security of multiparty protocols. In: Pﬁtzmann, B. (ed.) EURO-
CRYPT 2001. LNCS, vol. 2045, pp. 262–279. Springer, Heidelberg (2001). https://
doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44987-6 17
14. Chen, J.: Optimal error-free multi-valued Byzantine agreement. In: DISC 2021.
LIPIcs, vol. 209, pp. 17:1–17:19. Schloss Dagstuhl - Leibniz-Zentrum f¨ur Informatik
(2021)
15. Chor, B., Goldwasser, S., Micali, S., Awerbuch, B.: Veriﬁable secret sharing and
achieving simultaneity in the presence of faults (extended abstract). In: 26th
Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science, Portland, Oregon, USA,
21–23 October 1985, pp. 383–395. IEEE Computer Society (1985)
16. Coan, B.A., Welch, J.L.: Modular construction of nearly optimal byzantine agree-
ment protocols. In: ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing
(1989)
17. Cohen, R., Coretti, S., Garay, J.A., Zikas, V.: Probabilistic termination and com-
posability of cryptographic protocols. J. Cryptol. 32(3), 690–741 (2019)
18. Cramer, R., Damg˚ard, I., Dziembowski, S., Hirt, M., Rabin, T.: Eﬃcient multi-
party computations secure against an adaptive adversary. In: Stern, J. (ed.) EURO-
CRYPT 1999. LNCS, vol. 1592, pp. 311–326. Springer, Heidelberg (1999). https://
doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48910-X 22
19. Dolev, D., Reischuk, R.: Bounds on information exchange for Byzantine agreement.
In: ACM SIGACT-SIGOPS Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing,
Ottawa, Canada, 18–20 August 1982, pp. 132–140. ACM (1982)
20. Feldman, P., Micali, S.: Optimal algorithms for Byzantine agreement. In: Proceed-
ings of the 20th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (1988)
21. Feldman, P.N.: Optimal algorithms for Byzantine agreement. Ph.D. thesis, Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology (1988)
22. Fischer, M.J., Lynch, N.A.: A lower bound for the time to assure interactive con-
sistency. Inf. Process. Lett. 14, 183–186 (1982)
23. Fitzi, M., Garay, J.A.: Eﬃcient player-optimal protocols for strong and diﬀerential
consensus. In: PODC (2003)
24. Goldreich, O., Petrank, E.: The best of both worlds: guaranteeing termination in
fast randomized Byzantine agreement protocols. Inf. Process. Lett. 36(1), 45–49
(1990)
25. Katz, J., Koo, C.: On expected constant-round protocols for Byzantine agreement.
In: Annual International Cryptology Conference (2006)
26. Kumaresan, R.: Broadcast and veriﬁable secret sharing: new security models and
round optimal constructions. University of Maryland, College Park (2012)
27. Kushilevitz, E., Lindell, Y., Rabin, T.: Information-theoretically secure protocols
and security under composition. In: Proceedings of the 38th Annual ACM Sympo-
sium on Theory of Computing (2006)
28. Lamport, L., Shostak, R., Pease, M.: The Byzantine generals problem. ACM Trans.
Program. Lang. Syst. 4, 382–401 (1982)

Perfect (Parallel) Broadcast via Statistical VSS
339
29. Lindell, Y., Lysyanskaya, A., Rabin, T.: Sequential composition of protocols with-
out simultaneous termination. In: Proceedings of the Twenty-First Annual ACM
Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing, PODC 2002, Monterey, Cal-
ifornia, USA, 21–24 July 2002, pp. 203–212. ACM (2002)
30. Nayak, K., Ren, L., Shi, E., Vaidya, N.H., Xiang, Z.: Improved extension protocols
for byzantine broadcast and agreement. arXiv preprint arXiv:2002.11321 (2020)
31. Kumaresan, R., Patra, A., Rangan, C.P.: The round complexity of veriﬁable secret
sharing: the statistical case. In: Abe, M. (ed.) ASIACRYPT 2010. LNCS, vol.
6477, pp. 431–447. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
642-17373-8 25
32. Patra, A., Choudhary, A., Rangan, C.P.: Round eﬃcient unconditionally secure
multiparty computation protocol. In: Chowdhury, D.R., Rijmen, V., Das, A. (eds.)
Progress in Cryptology - INDOCRYPT 2008, 9th International Conference on
Cryptology in India, Kharagpur, India, 14–17 December 2008. Proceedings. LNCS,
vol. 5365, pp. 185–199. Springer, Cham (2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-
89754-5 15
33. Pease, M., Shostak, R., Lamport, L.: Reaching agreement in the presence of faults.
J. ACM (JACM) 27, 228–234 (1980)
34. Rabin, M.O.: Randomized Byzantine generals. In: 2013 IEEE 54th Annual Sym-
posium on Foundations of Computer Science (1983)
35. Rabin, T.: Robust sharing of secrets when the dealer is honest or cheating. J. ACM
(JACM) 41(6), 1089–1109 (1994)
36. Tsimos, G., Loss, J., Papamanthou, C.: Gossiping for communication-eﬃcient
broadcast. In: Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2022 - 42nd Annual Inter-
national Cryptology Conference, CRYPTO 2022, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, 15–18
August 2022, Proceedings, Part III. LNCS, vol. 13509, pp. 439–469. Springer, Cham
(2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15982-4 15
37. Zhu, J., Li, F., Chen, J.: Communication-eﬃcient and error-free gradecast with
optimal resilience. In: 2023 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory
(ISIT), pp. 108–113 (2023). https://doi.org/10.1109/ISIT54713.2023.10206579

