Practical Non-interactive Publicly
Veriﬁable Secret Sharing with Thousands
of Parties
Craig Gentry1, Shai Halevi1(B), and Vadim Lyubashevsky2
1 Algorand Foundation, New York, NY, USA
shaih@alum.mit.edu
2 IBM Research, Ruschlikon, Switzerland
Abstract. Non-interactive publicly veriﬁable secret sharing (PVSS)
schemes enables (re-)sharing of secrets in a decentralized setting in the
presence of malicious parties. A recently proposed application of PVSS
schemes is to enable permissionless proof-of-stake blockchains to “keep
a secret” via a sequence of committees that share that secret. These
committees can use the secret to produce signatures on the blockchain’s
behalf, or to disclose hidden data conditioned on consensus that some
event has occurred. That application needs very large committees with
thousands of parties, so the PVSS scheme in use must be eﬃcient enough
to support such large committees, in terms of both computation and
communication. Yet, previous PVSS schemes have large proofs and/or
require many exponentiations over large groups.
We present a non-interactive PVSS scheme in which the underlying
encryption scheme is based on the learning with errors (LWE) problem.
While lattice-based encryption schemes are very fast, they often have
long ciphertexts and public keys. We use the following two techniques to
conserve bandwidth: First, we adapt the Peikert-Vaikuntanathan-Waters
(PVW) encryption scheme to the multi-receiver setting, so that the bulk
of the parties’ keys is a common random string. The resulting scheme
yields Ω(1) amortized plaintext/ciphertext rate, where concretely the
rate is ≈1/60 for 100 parties, ≈1/8 for 1000 parties, and approaching
1/2 as the number of parties grows. Second, we use bulletproofs over
a DL-group of order about 256 bits to get compact proofs of correct
encryption/decryption of shares.
Alternating between the lattice and DL settings is relatively painless,
as we equate the LWE modulus with the order of the group. We also show
how to reduce the the number of exponentiations in the bulletproofs by
applying Johnson-Lindenstrauss-like compression to reduce the dimen-
sion of the vectors whose properties must be veriﬁed.
An implementation of our PVSS with 1000 parties showed that it is
feasible even at that size, and should remain so even with one or two
order of magnitude increase in the committee size.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
O. Dunkelman and S. Dziembowski (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2022, LNCS 13275, pp. 458–487, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-06944-4_16

Practical Non-interactive PVSS with Thousands of Parties
459
1
Introduction
A publicly-veriﬁable secret-sharing scheme (PVSS) lets a dealer share a secret
among a committee of shareholders, in such a way that everyone (not just the
shareholders) can verify that the secret was shared properly and be assured
that it is recoverable. A noninteractive PVSS scheme lets the sender broadcast
just a single message to the entire universe, from which the shareholders can
get their shares and everyone else can check that sharing was properly done.1 A
proactive PVSS scheme further enables passing the secret from one committee of
shareholders to the next, so that (a) the secret remains hidden from an adversary
that only controls a minority in each committee, and (b) everyone can check that
the secret is passed properly between consecutive committees.
Such protocols play crucial role in distributed cryptography, and were studied
extensively in the literature [11,14,16,20,22,23,28,31–33,37,50–52,54,56]. They
were also recently proposed as enablers of secure computation on large-scale
distributed networks such as public blockchains [7,31]. Unfortunately, existing
PVSS schemes in the literature fall short of what is needed for general-purpose
secure computation in large-scale systems, where committees may scale to hun-
dreds or even thousands of parties [7,26]. See related work in Sect. 1.1.
In this work we propose a new system for (proactive, noninteractive) PVSS,
that remains feasible even with huge committees. In asymptotic terms, with secu-
rity parameter λ and k-party committees, the PVSS protocol that we propose
has the dealer and each committee member perform only O(λ + k) exponentia-
tions and broadcast O(λ + k) scalars in Zp and O(log(λ + k)) group elements.
(In addition, each party needs to perform O(λ2 + λk) scalar multiplications in
Zp, which comes to dominate the running time.)
In terms of actual numbers, we wrote a preliminary, single-threaded, imple-
mentation of our system and tested it on committees of up to 1000 members.2
With a 1000-member committee, the dealer runs in about 40 s (single-threaded)
and broadcasts a single message of size less than 300KB, while each committee
member requires about 20 s to obtain its share and verify the proofs. As we
explain in the sequel, this system can be extended to a proactive PVSS proto-
col for very large-scale systems, where the wall-clock time to refresh a secret is
measured in just a few minutes.
We also point out that while our goal of using LWE encryption was motivated
by practical consideration, a side eﬀect is that the secrecy of the PVSS scheme
is preserved even against quantum attackers. This protects the PVSS scheme
from potential “harvest-and-decrypt” attacks using future quantum computers.
This feature may be especially important for blockchain applications, where all
the data is “harvested” by design.
1 Clearly such schemes must rely on some form of PKI.
2 The implementation should also support committees that are one or two orders of
magnitude larger, with only a mild increase in runtime.

460
C. Gentry et al.
1.1
The PVSS Problem and Related Work
Veriﬁable secret sharing (VSS) was introduced by Chor et al. [16], with the
objective of making secret sharing robust against malicious parties – i.e., a mali-
cious dealer distributing incorrect shares, or malicious shareholders submitting
incorrect shares in the reconstruction protocol.
Stadler [54] introduced publicly veriﬁable secret sharing (PVSS), in which the
correctness of shares is veriﬁable by everyone (not just shareholders). As Stadler
notes, the idea appears implicitly in earlier works. Chor et al.’s VSS protocol
[16] happened to be publicly veriﬁable. GMW [28] also includes a PVSS protocol
(Sect. 3.3), in which shareholders generate public keys independently, and the
encrypter sends encryptions of shares of the secret to the shareholders, together
with NIZK proofs that the ciphertexts are well-formed and indeed encrypt shares.
These early schemes can be made non-interactive, by using NIZKs with the PVSS
protocol in [28], or by applying the Fiat-Shamir heuristic to the Σ-protocols in
[54].
Later PVSS works focused primarily on improving the eﬃciency of non-
interactive ZK proofs for the ciphertexts, and minimizing the assumptions under-
lying those proofs [11,14,20,22,23,31–33,37,50–52,56]. Below, we will focus on
PVSS schemes that follow the GMW approach to PVSS, where shareholders
receive shares encrypted under their own independently generated public keys.
In [48], this approach to PVSS is called “threshold encryption with transparent
setup”. We can categorize these PVSS schemes according to what underlying
encryption scheme they use to encrypt shares. For the most part, these schemes
all use 1) Paillier encryption, 2) ElGamal encryption of scalars “in the exponent”,
3) pairing-based encryption of elements of the source group of the bilinear map,
or 4) lattice-based encryption.
Paillier encryption [45] might at ﬁrst appear ill-suited to PVSS in the “thresh-
old encryption with transparent setup” setting, as shareholders have diﬀerent
Paillier public keys, and therefore have incompatible plaintext spaces that make
it awkward to prove relationships among shares. However, this problem can
be overcome by using a common interval that is inside the plaintext spaces
of all of the Paillier keys, and using a proof system that proves (among other
things) that the encrypted message is indeed within this interval. Camenisch and
Shoup [14] build an encryption scheme with veriﬁable encryption and decryption,
based on Paillier’s decision composite residuosity assumption, that uses such an
“interval” approach; the Σ-protocols for veriﬁable encryption and decryption
each require only O(1) exponentiations.3 Recently, Lindell et al. [37] used essen-
tially a version of Camenisch-Shoup to construct a PVSS scheme with O(k)
exponentiations per committee member (during re-sharing), for committees of
size k (see Sect. 6.2).4 Later schemes using variants of Paillier to encrypt PVSS
shares include [23,33,51]. All of these PVSS schemes have the usual disadvan-
tage of schemes related to Paillier, namely that exponentiations are expensive,
3 In earlier work, Fouque and Stern [20] informally present a somewhat similar scheme.
4 Lindell et al. also constructed a scheme that avoids Paillier, but with much higher
bandwidth.

Practical Non-interactive PVSS with Thousands of Parties
461
as the exponentiations are over a group whose size should in principle be about
exp(O(λ3)) for security parameter λ to maintain suﬃcient security against the
number ﬁeld sieve, and which in practice is much larger than, say, an elliptic
curve group with comparable security (against classical computers). Also, the
size of the proofs is linear in the size of the ciphertexts.
PVSS schemes that encrypt shares “in the exponent” include [31,37,52]. In
those schemes, recovering the secret itself requires solving DL, which is only
possible when the secret is small. For example, Groth’s PVSS scheme [30,31],
aﬃliated with the Dﬁnity blockchain, shares the secret for BLS signing [9] by
dividing it “into small chunks, which can be encrypted in the exponent and
later extracted using the Baby-step Giant-step method”. That scheme employs
a weak range proof to demonstrate that the chucks in the exponent are small
enough to be recovered. The scheme has numerous optimizations, such as using
the same randomness for ciphertexts in the multi-receiver setting. The paper
[31] mentions an implementation, but does not provide details.
Bilinear-map-based PVSS schemes can veriﬁably encrypt source group ele-
ments, as opposed to scalars [19,55]. An advantage of these schemes is that
proofs of smallness – such as those needed in Camenisch-Shoup and Groth’s
PVSS scheme – are unnecessary, as the bilinear map makes veriﬁable encryption
very natural [8,21]. A disadvantage is that these schemes are limited to settings
where one is content to have the secret be a source group element – e.g., as
when the secret is being used as a signing or decryption key in a pairing-based
cryptosystem.
Lattice-based encryption schemes can encrypt large scalars, and have encryp-
tion and decryption procedures that are much faster than group-based schemes.5
The main disadvantage of lattice-based schemes is high bandwidth, as lattice-
based ciphertexts and public keys are in the order of kilobytes. The high band-
width issue, however, can often be amortized away, since many plaintexts can be
packed into a single ciphertext, as in the Peikert-Vaikuntanathan-Waters encryp-
tion scheme [47]. In principle, ciphertext expansion in lattice-based schemes can
be arbitrarily small [12]. Also, very small ciphertext expansion (e.g., close to 2)
can be compatible with very high performance that can be orders of magnitude
better than Paillier-based schemes [24]. (See also [43,44], cf. [53].)
Proving that lattice-based ciphertexts are well-formed requires proofs of
smallness (for vectors that should be small, such as the secret key, encryp-
tion randomness). Some lattice-based schemes [17,36] have used the approach of
decomposing the coeﬃcients of the vectors into their binary representations, and
then proving that each purported bit in the representation is indeed in {0, 1}.
Alternatively, one can use an approach somewhat similar to Camenisch-Shoup:
a Σ-protocol that proves that a vector is inside a certain ball by revealing a sta-
tistically masked version of that vector. In the lattice setting, Lyubashevsky [38]
showed how to use rejection sampling to reduce the required size gap between
5 Of course, this statement refers to basic, possibly additively homomorphic lattice-
based encryption schemes, not fully homomorphic encryption.

462
C. Gentry et al.
the masking vector and masked vector. Some other works on proofs of smallness
are: [5,18].
In this paper, we are motivated in part by the blockchain setting, where
PVSS can help enable a blockchain to “keep a secret” [7] that it can use to
sign or decrypt conditioned upon events, but where bandwidth is at a premium.
Currently, blockchains almost exclusively use proof systems based on QAPs [29,
46] or bulletproofs [13], because these have the most concise proofs.6
1.2
An Overview of Our PVSS Construction
We assume we have a PKI, in which each party (and potential shareholder) has
independently generated its own key pair for public-key encryption. Based on this
PKI, our goal is to design a practical non-interactive PVSS scheme that allows
a dealer to share a secret by veriﬁably (in zero-knowledge) encrypting shares of
the secret to a “committee” of shareholders under their keys. The scheme should
also allow each committee member to act as a dealer and veriﬁably “re-share”
its share to the next committee of shareholders. We use Shamir secret sharing,
though essentially any linear secret sharing will do.
Our PVSS scheme arises out of two design choices – namely, 1) to use lattice-
based encryption, and 2) to use bulletproofs. Below, we explain these choices and
their consequences.
Lattice-Based Encryption. Lattice-based encryption is a good ﬁt for PVSS,
not only because it is exceptionally fast, but also because its disadvantages turn
out not to be big problems in the PVSS setting. One apparent disadvantage is
that lattice-based encryption has long public keys and ciphertexts. However, in
the multi-receiver setting of PVSS, this disadvantage can be amortized away by
adapting the Peikert-Vaikuntanathan-Waters (PVW) encryption scheme [47] to
the multi-receiver setting. Another apparent disadvantage is that, for lattice-
based PVSS, proving that ciphertexts are well-formed requires zero-knowledge
proofs of smallness – e.g., that the “noise” in the ciphertexts is small. However,
as we have seen in Sect. 1.1, PVSS and veriﬁable encryption schemes based on
Paillier and ElGamal “in the exponent” also employ weak range proofs, and
therefore they have no advantage over lattices here.
We brieﬂy review the PVW lattice-based encryption scheme, as used in our
PVSS scheme. The scheme uses a public random matrix A that is common to
all parties. Each party i generates a secret vector si, and sets bi = si · A + ei to
be its public key.7 The parties’ public key vectors (say that there are k of them)
are collected into a matrix B. The collective public key of the PVSS system is
6 Despite being compact, bulletproofs have linear veriﬁcation complexity. The Dory
scheme [35] is similar to bulletproofs, but with logarithmic veriﬁcation complexity.
7 In the real scheme, each user creates several such vectors, but we defer this discussion
to the body of the paper.

Practical Non-interactive PVSS with Thousands of Parties
463
A
B

. The encryption of a message vector m = (m1, . . . , mk) ∈Zk
q is
A
B

r +
e1
e2

+
 0
m

=
c1
c2

,
(1)
where r, e1, e2 are vectors with small coeﬃcients and all operations take place
in Zq. A committee member will use this scheme to encrypt k re-shares of its
share to the next k-member committee.8
Note how well the PVW scheme is suited to the multi-receiver setting. In
the basic setting of (single-user) Regev encryption [49], each user has its own
matrix A as part of its public key, while here A is amortized across all parties.
Moreover, note that an encryption to an extra user costs just an extra element
in Zq. When the number of users becomes large, the ciphertext expansion factor
becomes a small constant.
As far as we know, ours is the ﬁrst use of the PVW lattice-based encryption
scheme in the multi-receiver setting. Proving the security of PVW in this setting
is subtle: when decrypting each user implicitly obtains the inner product of si
and r, which leaks something about r. One therefore needs to show that, for
practical parameters, the secrets are still hidden despite the leakage. We cover
this issue in Sect. 2.3.
Bulletproofs. Our second design choice is to use bulletproofs. We are aiming
for a PVSS scheme that can be used on a blockchain, as blockchains provide
an especially compelling platform for PVSS. Linear-size proofs are not suitable
for blockchains, as such proofs (which might appear in many blocks) need to be
downloaded and veriﬁed by everyone that is conﬁrming the blockchain state. For
this reason, proof systems in use on actual blockchains are almost exclusively
based on QAPs [29,46] or bulletproofs [13]. Bulletproofs have some advantages
over proof systems based on QAPs, such as being based on more natural assump-
tions, not requiring bilinear maps, and having only linear (versus quasi-linear)
prover time complexity. Bulletproofs also work over small groups (a feature not
shared by PVSS schemes based on Paillier encryption).
Recently, Bootle et al. [10] described a variant of bulletproofs based on lattice
problems. In this variant, the proofs are not as compact, but proof generation and
veriﬁcation presumably would be faster. As future work, it may be interesting
to investigate how using this variant aﬀects the performance of our scheme.
Using Lattice-Based Encryption and Bulletproofs Together. Now our
goal is to construct a proof system, ultimately based on bulletproofs, that allows
a shareholder to prove that incoming and outgoing PVW ciphertexts correctly
encrypt re-shares associated to its share.
8 For convenience, we have described the system as having only k members total, but
consecutive k-member committees could be non-overlapping subsets of a larger set
of parties.

464
C. Gentry et al.
As a ﬁrst step to make our encryption scheme and bulletproofs compatible,
we set our LWE modulus q to be the order of the bulletproof group. The plain-
text space of our encryption scheme – i.e., the space the shares live in – is also
Z/(qZ).9 Now we “simply” need to create a commitment of the messages and
prove that the ciphertext encrypts them. After this, all the proofs can be done
using bulletproofs. The main contribution of this work is a collection of tech-
niques, optimized for eﬃciency, to prove that a lattice encryption is valid and
that the message corresponds to some DL committed value.
In more detail, we create a Pedersen commitment to all the coeﬃcients of
r, ei, and m. We now would like to prove that the committed values satisfy the
linear relationship in (1). Also, very importantly, we need a proof that r and ei
have small coeﬃcients. Proving exact relationships is the bread and butter of
bulletproofs. We handle proofs of smallness in a multi-stage process that carefully
calibrates the transition from “lattice world” to “bulletproof world”. Namely, in
some cases, we ﬁrst reduce the dimension of the vectors involved, and instead
prove that this dimension-reduced vector has small coeﬃcients. This dimension
reduction in turn reduces the number of exponentiations we eventually need to
perform in the bulletproof world. Before moving to bulletproof world, we also
invoke a lattice-based (without bulletproofs) proof of smallness with a large gap.
While this proof is “slacky”, it is suﬃcient to prove certain expressions do not
“wrap” modulo q, so that we can now consider these expressions over Z. Now
that we have reduced the dimension and are assured that mod-q statements can
be lifted to statements over Z, we can use bulletproofs to prove the exact l2 norm
of the vectors. We provide additional techniques to hide the exact l2 norm if only
a bound on the norm is desired. The bulletproofs for the linear relationships and
for smallness are aggregated to the extent possible. Details are provided below.
Dimension Reduction and Slacky Lattice-Based Proofs of Smallness.
Our dimension reduction technique is based on the Johnson-Lindenstrauss
lemma [34]. The idea is that for all vectors v, we have ∥vR∥≈√n∥v∥, where
R is an n-column matrix whose entries are chosen from a normal distribution
of variance 1. When R is chosen in this way, the distribution of ∥vR∥2 follows
the chi-squared distribution and its conﬁdence intervals are known. When the
coeﬃcients of R are instead chosen from a discrete distribution over {0, ±1}
where the probability of 0 is 1/2, one can heuristically verify that these conﬁ-
dence intervals are bounded by the continuous ones.10 If we would like to be in
a 1 −2−128 interval, then R can have around 256 columns and then the ratio
between the smallest value of ∥vR∥and the largest is under 4. This means that
we can project an arbitrary-dimensional vector into just 256 dimensions and
9 Unlike the more standard LWE encryption in which the message also needs to be
small, we use a version of the scheme implicit in [27] where the messages can be
arbitrarily large in Zq, but the length of ⃗m has to increase to encode all of the
message. We describe this in Sect. 2.2.
10 There are concrete bounds for tails of some of these distributions (e.g. [1]), but they
are asymptotic and are looser than necessary for our concrete parameters.

Practical Non-interactive PVSS with Thousands of Parties
465
prove the ℓ2 norm of the resulting vector, and be within a small factor of the
correct result. And, of course, the projection operation is linear. The concrete
bounds for the dimension-reduction technique are described in Sect. 3.2.
Everything in the above discussion was based on the fact that we were work-
ing over the integers, rather than over Zq. When working modulo q, it is possible
that v has a large norm, but vR mod q has a small one. This event can clearly
only occur if the coeﬃcients of v are large enough that multiplication with R
causes a wraparound modulo q. It is therefore important to show that this does
not happen, and we do this in the manner as in the lattice-based proofs from
[41]. We now explain how the technique applies to our context. The main idea is
to show that all the elements of v are not too big. This seems a bit circular, as
our goal is already to prove that ∥v∥is small. But our requirement now is not to
get a very tight bound on the norm, but simply to show that all the elements of
v are small enough to not cause a wrap around. For this, one employs a simple
fact that is sometimes useful in lattice cryptography [6, Lemma 2.3], which states
that if a vector v has a large coeﬃcient, then for any y ∈Zq, ⟨v, r⟩+ y mod q
has a large coeﬃcient with probability at least 1/2, where the coeﬃcients of r
are randomly chosen from {0, ±1} as above. One would therefore prove that the
coeﬃcients of v are small by committing to some masking vector y, receiving a
128-column matrix R as a challenge, and then outputting vR + y. The purpose
of y is to hide v, and so some rejection sampling [39] is necessary to keep the
distribution of vR + y independent of v. Note that the gap between the actual
ℓ∞norm of v and that of what we can prove is increased by a factor of at least
the dimension of v. This is because the ℓ∞norm is not well-preserved under
transformations and also due to the masking which is needed because we will
actually be outputting the value vR + y. This is much larger than the factor of
approximately 4 in the ℓ2-dimension reduction above, and this is why we only
employ this technique for proving that no wrap-around occurs.
In the context of our encryption scheme, instead of proving that the long
vectors ei (with dimension dependent on the number of users) have small norm,
we can instead prove that the short 256-dimensional vector

c1
c2

−

A
B

r −

0
m

· R
(2)
has small norm. Also, we prove that r · R has small norm instead of r. Other
purportedly short vectors are handled in the same way. For example, each of the
k new committee members needs to prove that the public key bi = siA + ei is
properly created. The combination of these techniques is described throughout
Sect. 3.
Bulletproofs and Precise Proofs of Smallness. Suppose now that we want
to prove a tighter upper bound β on the squared ℓ2 norm of a vector v =
(v1, . . . , vk). (Proving tighter bounds allows us to use tighter parameters in our
lattice-based encryption scheme.) Assume β is an integer. First, we pick a vector
x such that the squared l2 norm of the concatenated vector v∥x is exactly β.

466
C. Gentry et al.
For the vector x, 4 coeﬃcients suﬃce, as the non-negative integer β − v2
i
can always be expressed as the sum of at most 4 squares. We then use the
“slacky” techniques above to prove that there is no wraparound modulo q in the
computation of the squared l2 norm of v∥x. Then, we commit to v∥x, and use
bulletproofs to prove the exact quadratic relation.
We can aggregate the relations that we prove using bulletproofs – e.g., these
exact proofs of smallness are combined together with proofs of the linear equa-
tions in (1).
1.3
Organization
In Sect. 2 we describe our lattice-based encryption scheme, and discuss the exten-
sion of PVW to the multi-receiver setting. In Sect. 3 we present the size-proof
protocols that we use in our scheme and their parameters. In Sect. 4, we provide
details about our implementation. In the long version [25] we describe in more
detail the various sub-protocols that the parties run locally, for key-generation,
encryption, decryption, and secret re-sharing, explain how to aggregate aggre-
gate the bulletproof instances from all these components into just two bullet-
proof instances, and ﬁnally put all these components together in a (proactive)
publicly-veriﬁable secret-sharing protocol.
2
The Underlying Encryption Scheme
In this section we develop the encryption scheme that is used by our protocol,
starting from a (variant of) PVW encryption [47] and specializing it to our needs.
Below we denote integers and scalars by lowercase letters, vectors by bold
lowercase letters, and matrices by uppercase letters. Vectors are considered row
vectors by default. (Parameters are denoted by either lowercase English or low-
ercase Greek letters). For integers x, q, we denote by x mod q the unique integer
x′ ∈[−q
2, + q
2) such that x′ = x (mod q). We denote vectors by bold-lowercase
letters, and it will usually be evident from context whether they are row or col-
umn. The l2 and l∞norms of a vector v are denoted ∥v∥2, ∥v∥∞, respectively.
For a matrix A, we let ∥A∥2, (resp. ∥A∥∞) denote the largest l2, (resp. l∞) norm
of any row in A.
2.1
Learning with Errors (LWE)
The LWE problem was introduced by Regev [49]. In the decision variant, the
adversary is given pairs (A, B) where A is chosen uniformly from Zk×m
q
, and it
needs to distinguish the cases where:
– B is chosen uniformly at random in Zn×m
q
, or
– B is set as B := SA + E mod q, where the entries of S, E are chosen from
some public distributions χs, χe over Zq that output integers of magnitude
much smaller than q with overwhelming probability.

Practical Non-interactive PVSS with Thousands of Parties
467
This problem is believed to be hard for many diﬀerent settings of the parameters
k, m, n, q, χs, χe. For some of them it is even proven to be as hard as solving
some “famous” lattice problems in the worst case. In this work we assume that
this problem is (exponentially) hard when the χ’s are uniform distributions on
integers is some symmetric interval [±σ] with σ ≪q/2. The speciﬁc parameters
that we use were chosen according to the LWE hardness estimator of Albrecht
et al. [3], see more details in The long version [25]. Also in our protocol we always
use k = m, so we drop the distinction between these parameters in the sequel.
2.2
Variants of Regev Encryption
In [49], Regev described a public-key encryption scheme whose security is based
on the hardness of decision-LWE. Later, Peikert, Vaikuntanathan and Waters
(PVW) described in [47] a variant with improved plaintext-to-ciphertext expan-
sion ratio. Our protocol is based on a variant of the PVW construction. Underly-
ing it is the following “approximate encryption” scheme, where decryption only
recovers a noisy version of the plaintext:
Key-generation. The key-owner chooses a random A ←Zk×k
q
, S ←χn×k
s
and E ←χn×k
e
and computes B := SA + E mod q. The secret key is S and
the public key is (A, B), which is pseudorandom under the decision LWE
assumption.
Encryption. To encrypt an n-vector x ∈Zn
q , the encryptor chooses r ←χk
s,
e1 ←χk
e, e2 ←χn
e , and sets c1 := Ar+e1 mod q and c2 := Br+e2+x mod q.
The ciphertext is (c1, c2), which is again pseudorandom under the decision
LWE assumption.
Decryption. To decrypt (approximately), the key-owner outputs x′ := c2 −
Sc1 mod q. Substituting all the terms one can check that
x′ =

(SA + E)r + e2 + x

−S(Ar + e1) = x +
e′
	



Er + e2 −Se1,
where for appropriate choices of χs, χe we will have ∥e′∥∞≪q.
Plaintext Encoding. To be able to fully recover the plaintext, Regev encryp-
tion uses some form of error-correction that allows the decryptor to compute
x from the noisy x′. Most variants of Regev encryption use encoding based on
scaling, but for us it is more convenient to use a diﬀerent form of encoding11
(which was implicit in the homomorphic encryption scheme of Gentry, Sahai
and Waters [27]). We encode a plaintext vector x∗∈Zn
q by a higher-dimension
x ∈Zℓn
q
that includes not just x∗but also a large multiple of it. Let Δ := ⌊√q⌋
and g := (Δ, 1) ∈Z2
q. The dimension-n vector (x1, . . . , xn) ∈Zn
q is encoded in
the vector (x1g| . . . |xng) ∈Z2n
q .
11 The reason that this encoding method is better for us, is that it allows us to work
only with Zq elements. In other variants of Regev encryption one usually must work
with both Zq and Zp for some p ≪q.

468
C. Gentry et al.
More generally, we could use a parameter ℓ≥2 and set Δ := ⌊ℓ√q⌋and
the “gadget vector” g := (Δℓ−1, . . . , Δ, 1) ∈Zℓ
q. We then encode a vector
(x1, . . . , xn) in the higher-dimension (x1g| . . . |xng) ∈Znℓ
q . The larger we set
the parameter ℓ, the more redundant the encoded vector becomes, which lets us
tolerate larger noise and still recover the original vector. (On the other hand, we
need to increase the number of rows in the secret key from n to ℓn.) Speciﬁcally,
for each entry xi in the original plaintext vector, the approximate-decryption
above yields a noisy ℓ-vector x′ = xg+e mod q, and xi can then recovered using
the decoding procedure from Fig. 1.
Fig. 1. The plaintext decoding procedure
As long as all the ei’s are bounded in magnitude below q/2(Δ+1) ≈Δℓ−1/2,
then the equality yi = ei −Δei+1 in Row 2 holds not only modulo q but also
over the integers. In that case we also have z = e1 −Δℓ−1eℓover the integers,
and since |e1| < Δℓ−1/2 then also e = e1 in Row 3 holds over the integers, so we
recover the correct output x.
For our implementation we stuck to the setting ℓ= 2, which is somewhat
simpler to implement. In general, however, setting a slightly larger value (such
as ℓ= 4) may lead to somewhat better parameters, since it can tolerate larger
noise and therefore smaller lattice dimension for the same security level. We
leave exploring this direction to future work.
2.3
The Multiparty Setting
A very useful property of the scheme above is that the i’th plaintext value xi
can be recovered using only rows {1+(i−1)ℓ, . . . , iℓ} of the secret key matrix S
(indexing start at 1). To wit, denote by Si the sub-matrix of S consisting only
of these rows, and let c2,i be the sub-vector of c2 consisting of entries {1 + (i −
1)ℓ, . . . , iℓ}, then xi can be recovered by setting x′ := c2,i −Sic1 ∈Zℓ
q, then
using the decoding procedure from Fig. 1.
It is therefore possible to use the encryption scheme above in a multiparty
setting, where all parties share the same random matrix A (a common-random-
string which is chosen by a trusted party during setup), and each party i chooses
its own secret key S ←χℓ×k
s
and noise Ei ←χℓ×k
e
, and computes its own public
key Bi := SiA + Ei mod q.

Practical Non-interactive PVSS with Thousands of Parties
469
The global public key is then set to include the matrix A, followed by all the
Bi’s in order (which are viewed as sub-matrices of the public-key matrix B from
above). Encryption works just as above, with the plaintext vector x ∈Zn
q viewed
as having one plaintext element xi ∈Zq destined to each party i. For decryption,
each party i uses its secret key Si to get the noise vector x′
i = xig + ei, then
apply the decoding procedure from Fig. 1 to recover xi from x′
i.
LWE with Leakage. The multiparty setting above brings up a new problem:
what happens when some of the parties are dishonest and deviate from the pre-
scribed distribution for choosing their public keys? The issue is that encryption
uses the same vector r for encrypting all the plaintext elements to all the parties.
When party i is dishonest and Bi is chosen adversarially, seeing Bir + ei may
leak information about r to the adversary, potentially making it possible for it
to distinguish some other Bjr + ej from random and maybe learn something
about the plaintext encrypted for party j.
Luckily, some characteristics of our application make it possible to counter
this threat. In particular, each party i in our protocol is required to prove that
its public key is “well formed”. Namely it must provide a proof of knowledge
of Si, Ei such that Bi := SiA + Ei mod q, and moreover where the l2 norm of
the rows in Si, Ei is bounded by some known bounds βs, βe, respectively. In this
setting, we can reduce security to plain LWE (without any leakage), as long as
the encryptor chooses e2 from a somewhat wider distribution than e1.
Fix the LWE parameters k, n, q, χs, χe1, and let ρs, ρs ∈R be factors that
bound the size of vector from χs, χe1, respectively, along any ﬁxed direction.
Speciﬁcally, we require that for any ﬁxed v ∈Zk
q, choosing s ←χk
s and e ←χk
e
we get
|⟨v, s⟩| ≤ρs · ∥v∥2 and |⟨v, e⟩| ≤ρe · ∥v∥2,
except perhaps with a probability negligible in κ. Let βs, βe ∈R be the bounds
that the parties in our protocol must prove, and let χe2 be another noise distri-
bution over Z, which is wide enough so that χe2 is statistically close12 to χe2 +δ
for any ﬁxed integer oﬀset δ ≤⌈ρsβe + ρeβs⌉. Then consider the following game
between an adversary and a challenger:
– The challenger chooses, sends to the adversary a random matrix A ∈Zk×k
q
.
– The adversary chooses S ∈Zn×k
q
and E ∈Zn×k
q
, subject to the constraint
that the l2 norm of each row in S, E is bounded by βs, βe, respectively. The
adversary sets B = SA + E mod q and sends S, E, B to the challenger.13
– The challenger chooses r ←χk
s, e1 ←χk
e1, e2 ←χk
e2, and a uniformly random
vector u ∈Zk
q. It also tosses a coin σ ∈{0, 1}.
If σ = 1 then the challenger sets c1 := Ar+e1 mod q and c2 := Br+e2 mod q.
If σ = 0 then the challenger sets c1 := u and c2 := Sc1 + e2 mod q.
12 Up to a distance negligible in κ.
13 The adversary sends not only B but also S, E to the challenger, since in our protocol
it will have to prove knowledge of these matrices so they can be extracted from it.

470
C. Gentry et al.
– The challenger sends (c1, c2) to the adversary, and the adversary outputs a
guess σ′ for σ.
Lemma 2.1. Let the parameters k, n, q, χs, χe1, and ρs, ρs, χe2 be as above.
Then under the hardness of decision-LWE with parameters k, n, χs, χe1, the
adversary in the game above has only a negligible advantage in guessing the
value of σ.
Proof. Substituting all the variables above, we have
(Ar + e1, Br + e2) =

Ar + e1, (SA + E)r + e2

=

Ar + e1, S(Ar + e1) −Se1 + Er + e2

(3)
(s)
≈

Ar + e1, S(Ar + e1) + e2

(c)
≈

u, Su + e2

.
(4)
The last relation follows directly from the hardness of decision LWE with these
parameters. To see why the penultimate relation holds, note that ∥Er−Se∥∞≤
ρsβe + ρeβs except with a negligible probability, and therefore e2 is statistically
close to Er −Se1 + e2.
Semantic Security in the Multiparty Setting. Lemma 2.1 implies that
we can get semantic security for the honest parties in our protocol, even if
the dishonest parties deviate from the prescribed distribution for choosing their
public keys. (As long as they successfully prove knowledge of S, E as above.)
To that end, we modify the encryption procedure from Sect. 2.2 so that it uses
the wider noise χe2 rather than χe when choosing the noise vector e2. We then
view the CRS matrix together with all the honest public keys as the matrix A
from the lemma, and the dishonest public keys are viewed as the matrix B from
the lemma. We note that with this view, the matrix A is pseudorandom from
the adversary’s perspective. Lemma 2.1 tells us that A⃗r +⃗e1 is indistinguishable
from random even given Br + e2, and the encryption scheme uses the part of
A⃗r + ⃗e1 corresponding to the honest parties’ public keys to mask the plaintext
values for these parties, hence we get semantic security.
How Wide Must χe2 Be? Lemma 2.1 requires that χe2 is very wide, enough
to “ﬂood” the term δ := Er−Se, i.e., larger by at least the (statistical) security
parameter. In our application, however, making χe2 very wide is costly: For
security of 128 bits, adding one bit to the width of χe2 increases by about 40
the dimension of the LWE secret that we need to use. (So making it (say) 50-bit
wider will increase the dimension by almost 2000.)
However, in our setting it seems likely that setting χe2 only slightly larger
than (the expected size of) δ is safe, since the encryption randomness and noise
are only used once, and the adversary gets at most t < 1000 samples from
the “leakage”. We therefore took a pragmatic approach, making χe2 only large
enough so the distributions χt
e2 and χt
e2 + δ are “not too far”. Speciﬁcally, we
set it large enough to ensure that the R´enyi divergence between them is a small
constant. While this is not enough to prove that decision-LWE remains hard, it

Practical Non-interactive PVSS with Thousands of Parties
471
is enough to show that the search problem remains hard. As we are not aware
of any attack on decision-LWE that does not go via full recovery of the LWE
secret, we take it as a strong indication of security even in our setting.
In more detail, in the long version [25] we establish a high-probability bound
on the l∞norm of δ (call it μ). We use the heuristic of modeling χe2 as a zero-
mean Normal random variable with variance σ2 (where σ is the parameter that
we need to set). Using analysis similar to [2,4], we bound the R´enyi divergence
of order α between χt
e2 and χt
e2 + δ by ρ := exp

απt · (μ/σ)2
, and use the
probability-preservation property of R´enyi divergence to conclude that for any
event E(v) that depends on a vector v, we have
Pr
v←χt
e2
[E(v)] ≥
Pr
v←χt
e2+δ[E(v)]α/(α−1)/ρ.
In particular the above holds for the event in which the adversary ﬁnds the LWE-
secret r. Setting σ = b
√
2πt and using (say) α = 2, yields ρ = exp(1) = e and
hence Prv←χt
e2[E(v)] ≥Prv←χt
e2+δ[E(v)]2/e. By the hardness of search-LWE,
the probability on the left-hand side is negligible, and hence so is the probability
on the right-hand side.
2.4
An Optimization: Using Module-LWE over Small Rings
As is common in lattice-based cryptosystems, we gain eﬃciency by using opera-
tions over higher-degree algebraic ring rather than directly over the integers. In
our multiparty setting parties use ℓ-row public key (to enable or input encoding),
so instead we use operations over a ring of dimension ℓ, namely Rℓ=Z[X]/(Xℓ+1).
(We also denote Rℓ,q = R/qR = Zq[X]/(Xℓ+1).) (Recall that our implementa-
tion uses ℓ= 2, and more generally we may use slightly larger value such as
ℓ= 4.) This means that the parties’ secret-key and noise vectors can now be
speciﬁed using half as many scalars, so in our protocols the parties will need to
commit and prove relations for half as many variables. The scheme thus needs to
choose low-norm elements in Rℓ, which is done by choosing their representation
in the power basis using the same distributions χs, χe1, χe2 over Zq. Below we
use the same notations χs, χe1, χe2 for both the Z distribution and the induced
distributions over Rℓ.
2.5
The Encryption Scheme in Our Protocol
Using all the components above, we describe here explicitly the encryption
scheme as we use it in our protocol:
Parameters. Denote by n the number of parties and t < n/2 bound the number
of dishonest parties. For LWE we have a modulus q, The dimension k of
the LWE secrets and noise vectors, and the secret- and noise-distributions
χs, χe1, χe2.
We also have the redundancy parameter ℓ, and we denote n = nℓ, t = tℓ, and
k = kℓ. Let Δ = ⌊ℓ√q⌋and let the “gadget vector” be g = (Δℓ−1, . . . , Δ, 1) ∈
Zℓ
q, representing the element g ∈Rℓ,q.

472
C. Gentry et al.
Common Reference String. A random matrix A ←Rk×k
q
.
Key-Generation. Each party i chooses the secret key and noise vectors in Rk
q,
si ←χk
s and ei ←χk
e1, sets bi := siA + ei ∈Rℓ,q as its public key, and
broadcasts it to everyone.
Encryption. The global public key consists of the matrix A and all the bi’s.
Let B ∈Rn×k
ℓ,q
be a matrix whose rows are all the bi’s in order.
Given n plaintext scalars x1, . . . , xn ∈Zq, we encode them in a vector x =
(x1, . . . , xn)g ∈Rn
ℓ,q. Namely we encode each xi as the element xig ∈Rℓ,q.
The encryptor chooses three vectors r ←χk
s, e1 ←χk
e1, and e2 ←χk
e2, and
computes the ciphertext vectors
c1 := ArT + eT
1 mod q, and c2 := BrT + eT
2 + xT mod q.
Decryption. On ciphertext (c1, c2) and secret key si, party i uses the approx-
imate decryption procedure to compute y := c2 −⟨si, c1⟩mod q.
This yields y = xg + e for some scalar x ∈Zq and small noise element
e ∈Rq,ℓ, which can also be written as a vector equation y = xg + e mod q.
The decryptor then uses the decoding procedure from Fig. 1 w to recover the
scalar x.
The discussion above implies that this scheme is correct as long as the decryption
noise is smaller than Δℓ−1/2, and and it oﬀers semantic security for the honest
parties under module-LWE (with leakage if χe2 does not completely drown the
other noise terms.)
3
Proofs of Smallness
Our scheme relies on parties committing to various vectors and broadcasting
publicly-veriﬁable proofs about them. Some of the statements that are proven
are simple linear constraints (e.g., when a party proves that it re-shared its secret
properly). But most of the proofs that we use are proofs-of-smallness, when the
prover needs to convince everyone that the norms of its vectors are bounded by
some public bounds.
The main reason for proving smallness is that lattice-based cryptosystems
only provide correctness guarantees when certain quantities are small enough.
Another reason to use proofs-of-smallness is because the underlying proof sys-
tems that we use are only capable of proving constraints modulo some integer
parameter P (e.g., discrete-logarithm-based commitments and proofs). To prove
the same constraints over the integers, we augment these underlying proofs by
also proving smallness of the relevant values, to establish that no wraparound
modulo P occurs.
A publicly veriﬁable proof of smallness protocol lets a prover commit to a
vector and convince everyone that the committed vector is smaller than some
public bound. Such proofs are parametrized by the norm in question (l2 or l∞)
and a gap parameter γ ≥1. Completeness of such proofs for a bound b only

Practical Non-interactive PVSS with Thousands of Parties
473
holds when the vector of the honest prover has norm bounded by b/γ, while
soundness ensures that even cheating provers cannot pass veriﬁcation if their
vector has norm larger than b. Such protocols can be modeled as special cases
of the commit-and-prove functionality (e.g., [15]), except that the constraint
enforced on honest parties is more strict than that for dishonest parties. This is
captured in the functionality SMLl[γ] from Fig. 2.
Fig. 2. The proof-of-smallness functionality SMLl[γ]
3.1
Underlying Commit-and-Prove Systems
Our scheme makes extensive use of underlying commit-and-prove systems, that
let parties commit to integer values and prove relations among these committed
values. Speciﬁcally, these systems lets a prover convince everyone of the veracity
of two types of constraints:
Linear Constraints. The prover commits to the secret vector x, then given the
public vector a it reveal the scalar b and proves that 
i aixi = b (mod P).
Quadratic Constraints. The prover commits to (x|y), then given the public
oﬀset vectors14 u, v it reveals the scalar b and proves that (xi+ui)(yi+vi) =
b (mod P).
In our implementation we use Pedersen commitments to vectors, and small vari-
ations of the Bulletproof protocol [13]. (In this case the parameter P is the
order of the hard-discrete-logarithm group.) The Bulletproof variants that we
use are described in the long version [25], where we also show how to use some
homomorphic properties in order to aggregate them.
We note that for the systems that we use, proving linear constraints is cheaper
than proving quadratic constraints, roughly because the prover only needs to
commit to x rather than to both x and y. We therefore strive to only prove
14 See Sect. 3.1 for the reason for the oﬀset vectors.

474
C. Gentry et al.
quadratic constraints on low-dimension vectors, which leads to noticeable sav-
ings. The main novel tool that we use for that purpose, and which we believe
will ﬁnd other applications, is in showing how to use the Johnson-Lindenstrauss
lemma to reduce the dimension of the vectors on which we need to perform
quadratic proofs. That is, we replace a quadratic proof on a high-dimension vec-
tor with a linear proof on that vector, combined with a quadratic proof on a
low-dimension one (i.e. 256-dimensional). See more details later in this section.
l 2 Norm Proofs Modulo P. In our scheme we often use commit-and-prove
protocols for quadratic constraints to prove the l2-norm of a vector modulo P,
which is not entirely straightforward. Naively, we could try to let the prover
commit to (x|x) and then directly use the underlying quadratic proofs to prove
that 
i x2
i = b2 (mod P). This naive protocol doesn’t quite work, however,
since a cheating prover may commit to two diﬀerent vectors (x|x′) rather than
to the same vector twice. One solution could be to add linear proofs to establish
that xi = x′
i for all i, but that could become expensive (as it may require
commitments to each xi separately).
Instead, after the prover commits to (x|x′) ∈Z2d
P and publishes the bound b,
the veriﬁer chooses at random an oﬀset vector u ∈Zd
P , and the prover uses the
underlying quadratic proof protocol to prove that 
i(xi+ui)(xi−ui) = b2−∥u∥2
(mod P). It is easy to see that if a cheating prover commits to some (x|x′) with
x ̸= x′, then this last constraint would only hold with probability 1/P. In our
implementation we let the veriﬁer choose only a single random scalar u ∈ZP ,
then use the oﬀset vector u = (1, u, u2, . . . , ud−1). Again it is easy to see that in
this case, if x ̸= x′ then the constraint only holds with probability at most d/P.
3.2
Tails of Distributions and the Johnson-Lindenstrauss Lemma
As we mentioned above, an important component in our scheme is pro-
jecting high-dimension vectors down to lower dimension using the Johnson-
Lindenstrauss Lemma. Namely, instead of directly proving smallness of a high-
dimension vector w, we choose a random rectangular matrix R, prove smallness
of the lower-dimension v = wR, and use Johnson-Lindenstrauss to argue that
this implies also tight approximation for the norm of the original w. (Speciﬁ-
cally, the distribution D that we use for the entries of R has D(0) = 1/2 and
D(±1) = 1/4.)
To obtain very tight bounds, we use a heuristic that roughly states that the
tail of the distribution on ∥wR∥can be bounded as if the entries of R were cho-
sen from the zero-mean continuous Normal distribution of the same variance. A
strong justiﬁcation for this heuristic comes from the analysis of Achlioptas [1],
who proved that for an arbitrary vector w and R ←Dn×k, all the moments of the
induced distribution over ∥wR∥2 are bounded by the corresponding moments of
the distribution ∥wR′∥2 where the entries of R′ are chosen from the correspond-
ing zero-mean continuous Normal distribution. This intuitively implies that the
tails of the continuous distribution are fatter, and so bounding them will imply
bounds on the discrete distribution. This intuition generally holds except that

Practical Non-interactive PVSS with Thousands of Parties
475
the discretization may cause some minor discrepancies that vanish exponentially
with the dimension k. See more discussion in the long version [25]. This heuristic
lets us use the following bounds when setting concrete parameters:
Fact 3.1. Let N be the continuous normal distribution centered at 0 with vari-
ance 1, and χ2[k] be the χ2 distribution with k degrees of freedom.15 Then for
every vector w ∈Zd it holds that:
Pr
r←N d


w, 1
√
2r
 > 9.75 · ∥w∥

= Pr
y←N

|y| > 9.75 ·
√
2

< 2−141.
Pr
R←N d×256

1
√
2wR

2
< 30 · ∥w∥2

=
Pr
y←χ2[256][y < 60] < 2−128.
Pr
R←N d×256

1
√
2wR

2
> 337 · ∥w∥2

=
Pr
y←χ2[256][y > 674] < 2−128.
Corollary 3.2. [heuristic] Let D be a distribution on {0, ±1} such that D(1) =
D(−1) = 1
4 and D(0) = 1
2. Under the heuristic substitution of D with
1
√
2N, for
every vector w ∈Zd:
Pr
r←Dd [|⟨w, r⟩| > 9.75 · ∥w∥] ⪅2−141,
Pr
R←Dd×256[∥wR∥2 < 30 · ∥w∥2]
⪅2−128,
Pr
R←Dd×256[∥wR∥2 > 337 · ∥w∥2] ⪅2−128,
where ⪅denotes a heuristic bound.
3.3
A Modular Johnson-Lindenstrauss Variant
In some cases we need a high probability bounds on the size of wR mod P rather
than the size of wR itself. When the bound that we seek is suﬃciently smaller
than P, we get this as an easy corollary:
Corollary 3.3. Fix d, P ∈Z and a bound b ≤P/45d, and let w ∈[±P/2]d
with ∥w∥≥b. Let D[0] = 1/2 and D[±1] = 1/4, then
Pr
R←Dd×256[∥wR mod P∥<
b
√
30] < 2−128.
Proof. We have two cases:
– The ﬁrst case is when ∥w∥∞≥P/4d. Let i be an index of an entry in w with
magnitude at least P/4d, and consider any column of R (denoted r): After
choosing all but the i’th entry in r, at most one of the three values {0, ±1}
yields |⟨w, r⟩mod P| < P/8d. Hence the probability that all the columns of
15 The χ2 distribution with k degrees of freedom is the distribution of
k
i=1
x2
i where
xi ←N.

476
C. Gentry et al.
R yield entries smaller than P/8d is at most (1/2)256. Since b ≤P/45d then
P/8d > b
√
30 and therefore
Pr
R←Dd×256[∥wR mod P∥< b
√
30] ≤Pr
R [∥wR mod Pq∥< P/8d] ≤2−256.
– The second case is when ∥w∥∞< P/4d. Here with probability one we have
wR ∈[±P/2]256, so mod-P reduction has no eﬀect and the assertion follows
directly from Corollary 3.2.
3.4
Approximate Proofs of Smallness
A tool from previous work that will be used as a subroutine in most of our new
proofs is a zero-knowledge proof that proves that a committed vector has small
coeﬃcients. We use the approximate proofs of l∞-smallness of Lyubashevsky
et al. [42] (which also utilize rejection sampling, as is common in lattice-based
proofs). This proof system has a fairly large gap between the l∞norm of the
vector used by honest provers and what the prover can prove. But this gap will
not show up in the rest of our scheme, because these proofs are only used to
show that there is no wraparound modulo P (after which we use an exact proof
for l2 norm modulo P). The main feature of this proof is that the dimension
of the transmitted vector is just 128, irrespective of how long the vector whose
smallness we would like to prove.
To bound the size of a vector w, the prover commits to w and to a masking
vector y (chosen at random to be somewhat larger than w), and sends the
commitments to the veriﬁer. The veriﬁer chooses a small random matrix R, and
the prover opens z = wR + y (and convinces the veriﬁer that it is indeed the
right z wrt w and y), and the veriﬁer checks that z is small. Soundness relies
on the following lemma.
Lemma 3.4 ([42], Lemma 2.5). Fix q, d ∈Z and any two vectors y ∈
[±q/2]128 and w ∈[±q/2]d. Let D[0] = 1/2 and D[±1] = 1/4, then choosing
R ←Dd×128 we have
Pr
R
wR + y mod q

∞< 1
2∥w∥∞

< 2−128.⊓⊔
Describing the proof system in more detail, we use a hard-DL group of order P
for the underlying commit-and-prove protocols, as follows. The prover holds a
vector w, and the veriﬁer holds a discrete-log-based commitment to w (e.g.,
Pedersen). The goal of the protocol is to prove that w has l∞norm bounded by
some known b, where for the honest prover we assume that ∥w∥∞≤b/γ (with
γ our gap parameter).
0. We use security parameter λ = 128 and the size gap is γ = 2 · 9.75λ
√
d <
2500
√
d.
1. The prover has a vector w ∈Zd of bounded size ∥w∥∞≤b/γ, and the veriﬁer
knows a commitment to w.

Practical Non-interactive PVSS with Thousands of Parties
477
2. The prover chooses a uniform masking vector y ←[ ±⌈b
2(1 + 1
λ)⌉]λ and sends
to the veriﬁer a commitment to y.
3. Let D(0) = 1/2 and D(±1) = 1/4, the veriﬁer chooses R ←Dd×λ and sends
it to the prover.
4. The prover computes u := wR and z := u + y. It restarts the protocol from
Step 2 if either ∥u∥∞> b/2λ or ∥z∥∞> b/2.
If the two tests above passed, then the prover sends z to the veriﬁer along
with a ZKPOK that indeed z = wR + y (mod P).
5. The veriﬁer accepts if the ZKPOK succeeds, and in addition ∥z∥∞≤b/2.
Lemma 3.5. The protocol above is an approximate proof-of-smallness for the
l∞norm, with size gap γ < 2500
√
d.
Proof. The honest prover has ∥w∥∞≤b/γ, so by the ﬁrst part of Claim 3.2
and the union bound, we have that ∥u∥∞≤9.75
√
d∥w∥∞≤9.75
√
db/γ < b/2λ
except with probability 27 · 2−141 = 2−134. A restart due to this check therefore
only happens with negligible probability.
Conditioned on ∥u∥∞≤b/2λ, the rejection sampling check for ∥u + y∥∞≤
b/2 leaks nothing about u (or w), by [39]. Furthermore, using the analysis from
[40, Section 5.2], the probability of the prover restarting due to this check is
about 1 −1
e ≈0.63. Hence the expected number of repetitions is constant.
It is left to show soundness, so consider a cheating prover with ∥w∥∞> b.
By Lemma 3.4 such prover has probability at most 2−128 of getting ∥wR +
y mod P∥∞≤b/2, regardless of y. This completes the proof.
3.5
Exact Proofs of Smallness
Using the protocol from Sect. 3.4, combined with a sum-of-squares proof, we can
get an eﬃcient exact proofs of smallness, provided that the bound b that we need
to prove is suﬃciently smaller than
√
P. Roughly, to prove that a value x has
magnitude smaller than some public bound b, it is suﬃcient to show that b2 −x2
is non-negative,16 which can be done by representing it as a sum of squares: After
committing to x, the prover ﬁnds and commits to four other integers α, β, γ, δ
such that b2 −x2 = α2 + β2 + γ2 + δ2. The prover uses the underlying commit-
and-prove systems to show that this equality holds modulo P, and also uses the
approximate proof from above to show that the numbers are small enough so
that they do not trigger a wraparound modulo P. Taken together, this means
that this constraint holds over the integers, hence proving that indeed |x| < b.
In our implementation we actually use a slightly more general version, where
the prover may wish to amortize over m instances of this problem. The upside of
amortizing is that he will only need one l∞proof (as opposed to one per vector).
The downside is that the size-bounds that we can prove this way are slightly
more restricted, since the gap in the approximate proofs grows with (the square
root of) the total dimension of all the vectors combined.
16 More generally, to show that x ∈[a, b] it is suﬃcient to show that (x −a)(b −x) is
non-negative.

478
C. Gentry et al.
The protocol is described below. In this description we assume that com-
mitments to diﬀerent vectors can be combined to a single commitment for the
concatenated vector (as needed for the underlying proofs systems). This clearly
holds for the Pedersen commitments that we use in our implementation.
1. The prover has m vectors w1, . . . wm ∈Zd, and the veriﬁer has commitments
to all these vectors. For each vector wi, the prover wants to prove that ∥wi∥≤
bi (where the bi’s are public).
Denote b = maxi bi, and assume that b <
√
P/(3536(d + 4)√m).
2. For each wi, the prover ﬁnds four non-negative integers αi, βi, γi, δi such that
α2
i + β2
i + γ2
i + δ2
i = b2
i −∥wi∥2.
Let ui := (αi, βi, γi, δi) and vi := (wi|ui) ∈Zd+4. The prover sends to the
veriﬁer commitments to all the ui’s, and they both combine them with the
commitments to wi’s to get commitment for the vi’s.
3. The prover provides a ZKPOK that for all i, ∥vi∥2 = b2
i (mod P) (cf.
Sect. 3.1).
4. The prover provides an l∞ZKPOK showing that
∥(v1| · · · |vm)∥∞<

P/2(d + 4).
Lemma 3.6. If b = maxi bi <
√
P/ (3536(d + 4)√m), then the protocol above
is correct, and a zero-knowledge proof of knowledge that ∥wi∥≤bi for all i.
Proof. ZK follows from the ZK of the two underlying proofs.
For soundness, note that proving statement (3) implies that for all the vi’s
we have ∥vi∥∞<

P/2(d + 4), and therefore ∥vi∥2 = d+4
j=1 v2
i,j < P/2. This
implies that statement (2) holds over the integers and not just modulo P, hence
b2
i −∥wi∥2 is positive.
The only thing left to show is that the bound b = maxi bi is small enough to
allow the use of the l∞approximate proof from Sect. 3.4 To prove that all the
coeﬃcients in the concatenated vector (v1| · · · |vm) of dimension m(d + 4) are of
size at most

P/2(d + 4) using that proof, the honest prover must have all the
coeﬃcients smaller than

P/2(d + 4)/γ, where γ = 2500

m(d + 4). Hence we
need
b ≤

P/2(d + 4)
2500

m(d + 4)
=
√
P/
√
2 · 2500 · (d + 4)√m

≈
√
P/

3536(d + 4)√m

,
which is exactly the bound in the statement of the lemma.
As a side remark, if we can tolerate a one-bit leakage on each ∥wi∥2, then
the prover can instead ﬁnd three integers αi, βi, γi such that α2
i + β2
i + γ2
i =
b2
i −∥wi∥2 ± 1 (such three integers always exist since every integer which is
congruent to 1 or 2 modulo 4 is a sum of three squares). The prover then does
the same proof as above, but sending δi = ±1 to the veriﬁer in the clear. (We
do not use this option in our protocol.)

Practical Non-interactive PVSS with Thousands of Parties
479
Exact Proofs of Smallness with Larger Bounds. In our scheme we some-
times need to prove exact bounds on vectors with entries that are larger than
the bound above. To do that, we let the prover break each coeﬃcients into (say)
two digits of size ≤⌈
√
b⌉, commit to these digits and prove exact smallness for
them separately, and then prove that combining these digits indeed yields the
original coeﬃcient.
Namely, the honest prover has a dimension-d vector w with ∥w∥≤b, and the
veriﬁer has a commitment to w. The prover uses radix φ ∈Z, chosen as small
as possible subject to φ2 −φ ≥b
√
d/2. It breaks w into two “digit vectors”,
wlo := w mod φ (with entries in [±φ/2]) and whi := (w−wlo)/φ. It commits to
these vectors, produces a linear-constraint proof showing that w = ρ · whi + wlo
(mod P), and uses the exact proof protocol from above to prove that
∥wlo∥≤
√
d · φ/2, and ∥whi∥≤b/φ +
√
d/2.
(5)
To see why the last inequality must hold, observe that
∥whi∥= ∥w −wlo∥/φ ≤(∥w∥+ ∥wlo∥)/φ ≤(b + φ
√
d/2)/φ = b/φ +
√
d/2.
Let b∗:=
√
P/

3536(d + 4)√m) be the bound that we need in order to be able
to use the exact proofs from above. The condition φ2 −φ ≥b
√
d/2 ensures that
b/φ +
√
d/2 ≤
√
d · φ/2, so we can use the above proofs as long as we are able
to set the radix φ small enough such that
√
d · φ/2 ≤b∗. It is not hard to verify
that when
√
b < b∗· (4/d)3/4 −(4/d)1/4, the two conditions φ2 −φ ≥b
√
d/2 and
√
d · φ/2 ≤b∗can always be satisﬁed.17
Combining the two bounds from Eq. (5) and the linear-relation proof, we can
therefore conclude that the size of the original w is bounded by
∥w∥≤φ∥whi∥+ ∥wlo∥≤φ(b/φ +
√
d/2) + φ
√
d/2 = b + φ
√
d.
Therefore, this technique induces a multiplicative size gap of γ = 1+ φ
√
d
b
between
what the honest prover holds and what we can conclude about the vector of a
cheating prover. (In our setting this gap will be minuscule.)
We remark that when using this technique, the prover needs to commit to
more vectors and prove quadratic constraints on them, incurring a somewhat
higher computational cost. Also, in the amortized setting, we can deal with a
mix of some “small” and “large” vectors by breaking into digits only the large
vectors and keeping the small vectors intact.
Approximate Proofs of Smallness for l 2 Norm. The protocol in the pre-
vious section for proving that ∥w∥≤b require proving quadratic constraints
on the vi’s to show that ∥vi∥2 = b2
i , which may be costly. We note, however,
that a simple application of Corollary 3.2 allows us to reduce the number of
coeﬃcients that are involved in the quadratic proof to 256 + 4 = 260, regardless
17 Jumping ahead, in our setting we have b∗> 2104 and d = 256, so we can handle
bounds up to b ≈2190. The bounds that we actually need to prove will all be much
much smaller.

480
C. Gentry et al.
of the dimension of w. The price that we pay is a small gap between what we
can prove and what the honest prover actually uses (and the restriction on the
bound that the protocol supports becomes somewhat smaller).
The idea is to ﬁrst project the d-dimensional vector down to a 256-
dimensional one by setting u = wR, for a random matrix R, and then apply the
proof from the previous section to the projected vector u. Using Corollary 3.2,
an exact bound on ∥u∥yields a very narrow range for the bound on ∥w∥. In our
protocol, however, we use a more general form of this approximate proof, which
is tailored to proving LWE relations, as we described next.
3.6
Proofs of Smallness for LWE
In the encryption scheme from Sect. 2.5, the prover sometimes has an LWE
instance b = sA + e (mod q), and it needs to prove that s, e are small. While
the prover can commit to s, e and use the proofs above, in this case we can
save about half the cost by skipping the commitment to e, since e is implicitly
committed by seeing the commitment to s and knowing A and b.
Below we describe this more eﬃcient protocol, for the case q = P (with P
the parameter of the underlying commit-and-prove systems). In fact we need a
slightly more general variant that includes a committed “oﬀset vector”, and as
in previous sections we also let the prover amortize over m such proofs. We also
use the technique from Sect. 3.5 to handle vectors with larger norm by splitting
the projected vectors into high and low digits.
In more detail, both prover and veriﬁer know public matrices Ai ∈Zki×di
P
,
i = 1, . . . , m and bounds bi, b′
i, and let γ be the size gap (to be deﬁned below).
The prover has vectors si ∈Zk
P and ei, xi ∈Zdi
P , where ∥si∥≤bi/γ and ∥ei∥≤
b′
i/γ. The 2m vectors si, ei are partitioned into a set L of ml “large” vectors and
a set S of ms “small” ones (so ml + ms = 2m). The designation of which vector
belongs to what set is also public.
To simplify notations somewhat, below we assume that the LWE secrets are
all “small” and the noise vectors are all “large”, which would be the case in our
application. The protocol can be easily extended to handle an arbitrary mix of
“large” and “small”, but the notations get rather awkward.
Let β :=
√
P/(
√
2 · 2500 · 260 · √ms + 2ml) ≈
√
P/(219.9√ms + 2ml). For
correctness of the protocol below, we require that the the bounds on the “small”
vectors in S all satisfy bi ≤β/
√
30. For the “large” vectors in L, let b∗=
mini(b′
i) (i.e., the smallest “large” bound) and b∗= maxi(b′
i), and we require
that 8b∗/√b∗≤β.
The radix for breaking integers into digits is set to φ ∈Z, taken as large as
possible subject to
√
30b∗/φ + 8 ≥8φ, speciﬁcally we use φ := ⌊

b∗· 30/64⌋.
Denoting γ1 :=

337/30 ≤3.36 and γ2 := 1 +
16φ
√
30b∗< 1 +
2
√b∗, the size-gap
that the protocol below achieves is γ1 · γ2.18 The protocol proceeds as follows:
0. For all i, let ˆbi :=
√
30 bi/γ2 and ˆbhi
i
:= (
√
30 b′
i/φ +
√
256/2)/γ2 =
(
√
30 b′
i/φ + 8)/γ2, and also let ˆblo :=
√
256φ/(2γ2) = 8φ/γ2.
18 In our setting we have b∗> 290, so the term
2
√b∗is insigniﬁcant.

Practical Non-interactive PVSS with Thousands of Parties
481
1. The prover sets bi := siAi + ei + xi mod P for all i, and sends to the veriﬁer
the bi’s and also commitments to the si’s and xi’s.
2. Let D[0] = 1/2 and D[±1] = 1/4. The veriﬁer chooses Ri ←Dki×256 and
R′
i ←Ddi×256, and sends to the prover.
3. The prover computes ui := siRi, vi := eiR′
i. If ∥ui∥>
√
30bi/γ2 or ∥vi∥>
√
30b′
i/γ2 then the prover aborts.
Otherwise it splits the vi’s into digits, vlo
i
= vi mod φ (with entries in
[±φ/2]), and vhi
i
= (vi −vlo
i )/φ.
The prover commits to all the ui’s, vlo
i ’s, and vhi
i ’s and sends to the veriﬁer.
4. the parties then engage in the following ZKPOK protocols:
A. Exact smallness proofs (cf. Sect. 3.5): For all i the prover proves that
∥ui∥≤ˆbi, ∥vlo
i ∥≤ˆblo, and ∥vhi
i ∥≤ˆbhi
i .
B. Linear-constraint proofs for the projected LWE secrets, siRi
= ui
(mod P) for all i.
C. Linear-constraint proof for the LWE relation: For each all i it proves that
biR′
i = siAiR′
i + φvhi
i + vlo
i + xiR′
i
(mod P).
5. The veriﬁer accepts if all the proofs passed.
Lemma 3.7. Assume that the dimensions and bounds satisfy the following con-
ditions:
– For vectors in S we have bi ≤β/
√
30, and for vectors in L we have 8b∗/√b∗≤
β.
– For all i, bi ≤P/45ki and b′
i ≤P/45di.
Then the protocol is correct ZKPOK, proving that bi = siAi + ei + xi mod P
holds for some ∥si∥≤bi and ∥ei∥≤b′
i. The size gap for both the si’s and ei’s
is γ :=

337/30 · (1 + 16φ
b∗) ≤3.36(1 +
20
√
b∗).
Proof. ZK follows from the ZK of all the components. For completeness, ﬁrst
note that since the honest prover has si ≤bi/γ and si ≤b′
i/γ then by Corollary
3.2 the prover only aborts in Step 3 with negligible probability.
We also need to show that the bounds used in Step 4A satisfy the constraints
from Lemma 3.6. As we have ms + 2ml projected vectors ui, vi ∈Z256
P , we need
to ensure that the bounds ˆbi,ˆbhi
i ,ˆblo that are used in the exact-smallness proofs
do not exceed
√
P/
√
2 · 2500 · 260√ms + 2ml

= β. For vectors in S we have
bi ≤β/
√
30 and therefore ˆbi ≤
√
30bi ≤β. For vectors in L, recall that we set
φ = ⌊

b∗· 30/64⌋to get ˆbhi
i ≥ˆblo, and since b′
i ≤b∗we get:
ˆblo ≤ˆbhi
i ≤(
√
30 b′
i/φ + 8)/γ2 ≤
(
√
30 b∗+ 8φ)/φ
(
√
30 b∗+ 16φ)/(
√
30 b∗)
=
√
30 b∗+ 8φ
√
30 b∗+ 16φ ·
√
30 b∗
⌊

b∗· 30/64⌋
≤(b∗/b∗) · 8

b∗= 8b∗/

b∗≤
√
P/(
√
2 · 2500 · 260 ·
√
ms + 2ml).

482
C. Gentry et al.
It remains to prove soundness. Due to the proofs in Step 4 we can extract con-
crete si, xi, ui, vhi
i , vlo
i even from cheating provers. For each i, we can therefore
deﬁne ei := bi−siAi−xi mod P ∈[±P/2]di (so the constraint bi = siAi+ei+xi
(mod P) holds by deﬁnition). All we need to show, then, is that ∥si∥≤bi and
∥ei∥≤b′
i.
Due to constraint 4C, it holds by deﬁnition of ei that (φvhi + vlo) = eiR′
i
(mod P). Letting vi := φvhi+vlo, the bounds that we proved on the size of ∥vhi∥
and ∥vlo∥, together with the setting γ2 = 1 + 16φ/(
√
30b∗) ≥1 + 16φ/(
√
30b′
i),
imply that
∥vi∥≤φˆbhi
i + ˆblo = (
√
30 b′
i + 8φ)/γ2 + 8φ/γ2 ≤
√
30 b′
i + 16φ
1 + 16φ/(
√
30b′
i) =
√
30b′
i.
Since bi ≤P/45ki and b′
i ≤P/45di then we can use Corollary 3.3. By this
corollary, it must be the case that ∥si∥≤bi and ∥ei∥≤b′
i for all i, or else we
would only have negligible probability of getting ∥ui∥≤bi
√
30 or ∥vi∥≤b′
i
√
30.
This completes the proof.
Using Diﬀerent φi for Diﬀerent LWE Equations. The protocol above uses the
same radix φ for all the “large” vectors, adding an extra factor of b∗/b∗in
the conditions of Lemma 3.7. In our application this factor does not make a
diﬀerence, but it can be avoided by using a diﬀerent radix φi = ⌊

b′
i · 30/64⌋
for splitting the i’th “large” vector vi. This would have the eﬀect of only requiring
8
√
b∗≤β (rather than 8b∗/√b∗≤β).
Sharing LWE Secrets Across Instances. When using the proof above in our
protocol, we often need to prove multiple LWE instances for the same LWE
secret. For example the same secret key is used in both the proof of key generation
and the proof of decryption.
In this case, the prover will only send a single commitment to that LWE secret
s, the veriﬁer will only send a single challenge matrix R, and the parties will only
run a single exact-smallness proof for u = sR in Step 4A and a single instance
of the linear proof for it in Step 4B. On the other hand, they will run a separate
instance of the proof in Step 4C for each LWE relation. The bounds will remain
exactly as in Lemma 3.7 (although in this case we may have ms + 2ml < 2m).
Proofs for Module-LWE. As mentioned in Sect. 2.4, our implementation
actually uses Module-LWE over a low dimension extension ﬁeld FP ℓrather than
over the integers (speciﬁcally we use ℓ= 2).
The proofs-of-smallness protocols above can easily be extended to this case,
treating b = sA + e (mod q) as an equation over the FP ℓ, which can be written
as B = SA′ + E (mod P) in matrix notation over the integers.
Given A′ and B, every entry in E can be expressed as an aﬃne expression in
the entries of S, and moreover, the entries in S are all known linear combinations
of the (representation over Zp of) s. We can therefore arrange the entries of E
in a vector ˜e, and get a new equation over the integers ˜b = s ˜A + ˜e (mod P),
which we can prove using the protocol above.

Practical Non-interactive PVSS with Thousands of Parties
483
4
Implementation and Performance
In the long version [25] we describe how to put the techniques from the pre-
vious sections together into a PVSS scheme. We implemented the components
above in C++, with operations in the Curve 25519 using libsodium and opera-
tions in FP 2 using NTL. The implementation is available under MIT license from
https://github.com/shaih/cpp-lwevss. Our implementation is still quite naive,
operating single-threaded, and making direct call to the exponentiation routines
of libsodium without any optimizations for multi-exponentiations.
We run this program on an old server that we had access to, featuring Intel
Xeon CPU, E5-2698 v3 running at 2.30GHz (which is a Haswell processor) with
32 cores and 250GB RAM. The software conﬁgurations included libsodium
1.0.18, NTL version 11.3.0, and GMP version 6.2.0, all compiled with gcc 7.3.1 and
running on CentOS Linux 7, kernel version 3.10.0.
The performance results with number of parties from 128 to 1024 are sum-
marized in Tables 1 and 2. In Table 1 we specify for each setting the time spent in
each of the high-level subroutine: key-generation, encryption, decryption, prov-
ing, and verifying. We also specify there the number of scalar-point multipli-
cations (denoted #exp) performed in each subroutine, and the total RAM con-
sumption. In Table 2 we specify for each setting the running-time spent in some of
Table 1. Performance results with 128–1024 parties, by high-level subroutine.
# of parties
Keygen
time(sec)
Encrypt
time(sec)
Decrypt
time(ms)
Prove
Verify
RAM
# exp
time(sec)
# exp
time(sec)
usage
128
5.1
4.2
1.4
80392
22.9
23145
15.3
2.26 GB
256
5.2
4.4
1.4
82608
23.7
23451
15.9
2.73 GB
512
5.2
5.0
1.4
84030
25.3
24063
17.4
3.74 GB
1024
5.3
5.8
1.4
87524
28.2
24939
20.0
5.28 GB
the lower-level subroutines: In particular the time spent by vector-matrix multi-
plication by the CRS matrix over Zq, and the time spend performing scalar-point
multiplications on the curve.
Table 2. Running time (seconds) with 128–1024 parties, by low-level subroutine.
# of parties
Prover
Veriﬁer
multiply by
CRS
Point-scalar
multiply
Total time
Multiply by
CRS
Point-scalar
multiply
Total time
128
15.2
9.6
32.2
6.1
2.8
15.3
256
15.3
9.9
33.3
6.1
2.8
15.9
512
15.8
10.1
35.5
6.4
2.9
17.4
1024
16.1
10.5
39.4
6.5
3.0
20.0
As can be seen in Table 2, only about 25–30% of the prover time and about
15% of the veriﬁer time was spent performing scalar-point multiplications on

484
C. Gentry et al.
the curve. The reason is that the number of these curve operations is lin-
ear in the dimensions k, while the number of scalar multiplications modulo q
is quadratic (since we compute a few vector-matrix multiplications.) We also
note that switching to a structured CRS matrix (by moving to operations over
dimension-k extension ﬁeld/ring and relying on ring-LWE) would have reduced
the multiply-by-CRS time, making it insigniﬁcant. Implementing this optimiza-
tion could yield an almost 2× speedup for the prover and about 1.5× speedup for
the veriﬁer. It is clear from these tables that this PVSS scheme is quite feasible,
even for committees with many hundreds of parties and with our rather naive,
single-thread implementation.
References
1. Achlioptas, D.: Database-friendly random projections: Johnson-lindenstrauss with
binary coins. J. Comput. Syst. Sci. 66(4), 671–687 (2003). https://doi.org/10.1016/
S0022-0000(03)00025-4, special Issue on PODS 2001
2. Agrawal, S., Stehl´e, D., Yadav, A.: Towards practical and round-optimal lattice-
based threshold and blind signatures. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch. 2021, 381 (2021).
https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/381
3. Albrecht, M.R., Player, R., Scott, S.: On the concrete hardness of learning with
errors. J. Math. Cryptol. 9, 169–203 (2015). https://doi.org/10.1515/jmc-2015-
0016, https://bitbucket.org/malb/lwe-estimator/src/master/
4. Bai, S., Lepoint, T., Roux-Langlois, A., Sakzad, A., Stehl´e, D., Steinfeld, R.:
Improved security proofs in lattice-based cryptography: using the R´enyi divergence
rather than the statistical distance. J. Cryptol. 31(2), 610–640 (2017). https://doi.
org/10.1007/s00145-017-9265-9
5. Baum, C., Damg˚ard, I., Larsen, K.G., Nielsen, M.: How to prove knowledge of small
secrets. In: Robshaw, M., Katz, J. (eds.) CRYPTO 2016. LNCS, vol. 9816, pp. 478–
498. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53015-3 17
6. Baum, C., Lyubashevsky, V.: Simple amortized proofs of shortness for linear rela-
tions over polynomial rings. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch, p. 759 (2017)
7. Benhamouda, F., et al.: Can a public blockchain keep a secret? In: TCC (2020).
https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/464. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-64375-1 10
8. Boneh, D., Gentry, C., Lynn, B., Shacham, H.: Aggregate and veriﬁably encrypted
signatures from bilinear maps. In: Biham, E. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2003. LNCS,
vol. 2656, pp. 416–432. Springer, Heidelberg (2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-
540-39200-9 26
9. Boneh, D., Lynn, B., Shacham, H.: Short signatures from the Weil pairing. In:
International conference on the theory and application of cryptology and informa-
tion security, pp. 514–532. Springer (2001). https://doi.org/10.1007/s00145-004-
0314-9
10. Bootle, J., Chiesa, A., Sotiraki, K.: Sumcheck arguments and their applications. In:
Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2021: 41st Annual International Cryptology
Conference, CRYPTO 2021, Virtual Event, August 16–20, 2021, Proceedings, Part
I, 742–773 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84242-0 26
11. Boudot, F., Traor´e, J.: Eﬃcient publicly veriﬁable secret sharing schemes with fast
or delayed recovery. In: Varadharajan, V., Mu, Y. (eds.) ICICS 1999. LNCS, vol.
1726, pp. 87–102. Springer, Heidelberg (1999). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-
47942-0 8

Practical Non-interactive PVSS with Thousands of Parties
485
12. Brakerski, Z., D¨ottling, N., Garg, S., Malavolta, G.: Leveraging linear decryp-
tion: rate-1 fully-homomorphic encryption and time-lock puzzles. In: Hofheinz, D.,
Rosen, A. (eds.) TCC 2019. LNCS, vol. 11892, pp. 407–437. Springer, Cham (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-36033-7 16
13. B¨unz, B., Bootle, J., Boneh, D., Poelstra, A., Wuille, P., Maxwell, G.: Bulletproofs:
short proofs for conﬁdential transactions and more. In: 2018 IEEE Symposium
on Security and Privacy, SP 2018, Proceedings, 21–23 May 2018, San Francisco,
California, USA, pp. 315–334. IEEE Computer Society (2018). https://doi.org/10.
1109/SP.2018.00020
14. Camenisch, J., Shoup, V.: Practical veriﬁable encryption and decryption of discrete
logarithms. In: Boneh, D. (ed.) CRYPTO 2003. LNCS, vol. 2729, pp. 126–144.
Springer, Heidelberg (2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-45146-4 8
15. Canetti, R., Lindell, Y., Ostrovsky, R., Sahai, A.: Universally composable two-
party and multi-party secure computation. In: 34th ACM STOC, pp. 494–503.
ACM Press, May 2002. https://doi.org/10.1145/509907.509980
16. Chor, B., Goldwasser, S., Micali, S., Awerbuch, B.: Veriﬁable secret sharing and
achieving simultaneity in the presence of faults. In: 26th Annual Symposium on
Foundations of Computer Science (SFCS 1985), pp. 383–395. IEEE (1985)
17. Costa, N., Mart´ınez, R., Morillo, P.: Proof of a shuﬄe for lattice-based cryptogra-
phy. In: Lipmaa, H., Mitrokotsa, A., Matuleviˇcius, R. (eds.) NordSec 2017. LNCS,
vol. 10674, pp. 280–296. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
319-70290-2 17
18. del Pino, R., Lyubashevsky, V.: Amortization with fewer equations for proving
knowledge of small secrets. In: Katz, J., Shacham, H. (eds.) CRYPTO 2017. LNCS,
vol. 10403, pp. 365–394. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
319-63697-9 13
19. D’Souza, R., Jao, D., Mironov, I., Pandey, O.: Publicly veriﬁable secret shar-
ing for cloud-based key management. In: Bernstein, D.J., Chatterjee, S. (eds.)
INDOCRYPT 2011. LNCS, vol. 7107, pp. 290–309. Springer, Heidelberg (2011).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-25578-6 21
20. Fouque, P.-A., Stern, J.: One round threshold discrete-log key generation without
private channels. In: Kim, K. (ed.) PKC 2001. LNCS, vol. 1992, pp. 300–316.
Springer, Heidelberg (2001). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44586-2 22
21. Fuchsbauer, G.: Commuting signatures and veriﬁable encryption. In: Paterson,
K.G. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2011. LNCS, vol. 6632, pp. 224–245. Springer, Heidelberg
(2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-20465-4 14
22. Fujisaki, E., Okamoto, T.: A practical and provably secure scheme for publicly
veriﬁable secret sharing and its applications. In: International Conference on the
Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques, pp. 32–46. Springer (1998).
https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0054115
23. Gennaro, R., Goldfeder, S.: Fast multiparty threshold ECDSA with fast trustless
setup. In: Proceedings of the 2018 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and
Communications Security, pp. 1179–1194 (2018)
24. Gentry, C., Halevi, S.: Compressible FHE with applications to PIR. In: Hofheinz,
D., Rosen, A. (eds.) TCC 2019. LNCS, vol. 11892, pp. 438–464. Springer, Cham
(2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-36033-7 17
25. Gentry, C., Halevi, S., Lyubashevsky, V.: Practical non-interactive publicly veri-
ﬁable secret sharing with thousands of parties. https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/1397
(2021)

486
C. Gentry et al.
26. Gentry, C., Halevi, S., Magri, B., Nielsen, J.B., Yakoubov, S.: Random-index PIR
and applications. In: Nissim, K., Waters, B. (eds.) Theory of Cryptography. TCC
2021. LNCS, vol. 13044. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-90456-2 2
27. Gentry, C., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Homomorphic encryption from learning with
errors: Conceptually-simpler, asymptotically-faster, attribute-based. In: Canetti,
R., Garay, J.A. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2013 - 33rd Annual
Cryptology Conference, 18–22 August 2013, Santa Barbara, CA, USA. Proceed-
ings, Part I. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 8042, pp. 75–92. Springer
(2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-40041-4 5
28. Goldreich, O., Micali, S., Wigderson, A.: Proofs that yield nothing but their validity
or all languages in np have zero-knowledge proof systems. J. ACM (JACM) 38(3),
690–728 (1991)
29. Groth, J.: On the size of pairing-based non-interactive arguments. In: Annual Inter-
national Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques,
pp. 305–326. Springer (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-49896-5 11
30. Groth, J.: Applied crypto: introducing noninteractive distributed key genera-
tion (2021). https://medium.com/dﬁnity/applied-crypto-one-public-key-for-the-
internet-computer-ni-dkg-4af800db869d
31. Groth, J.: Non-interactive distributed key generation and key resharing. Cryptol-
ogy ePrint Archive, Report 2021/339 (2021). https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/339
32. Heidarvand, S., Villar, J.L.: Public veriﬁability from pairings in secret sharing
schemes. In: Avanzi, R.M., Keliher, L., Sica, F. (eds.) SAC 2008. LNCS, vol.
5381, pp. 294–308. Springer, Heidelberg (2009). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
642-04159-4 19
33. Jhanwar, M.P., Venkateswarlu, A., Safavi-Naini, R.: Paillier-based publicly veri-
ﬁable (non-interactive) secret sharing. Des. Codes Cryptograph. 73(2), 529–546
(2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/s10623-014-9952-6
34. Johnson, W.B., Lindenstrauss, J.: Extensions of Lipschitz mappings into a Hilbert
space 26. Contemporary mathematics 26 (1984)
35. Lee, J.: Dory: eﬃcient, transparent arguments for generalised inner products and
polynomial commitments. In: Nissim, K., Waters, B. (eds.) Theory of Cryptog-
raphy. TCC 2021. LNCS, vol. 13043. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-90453-1 1
36. Libert, B., Ling, S., Mouhartem, F., Nguyen, K., Wang, H.: Zero-knowledge argu-
ments for matrix-vector relations and lattice-based group encryption. In: Interna-
tional Conference on the Theory and Application of Cryptology and Information
Security, pp. 101–131. Springer (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53890-
6 4
37. Lindell, Y., Nof, A.: Fast secure multiparty ECDSA with practical distributed
key generation and applications to cryptocurrency custody. In: ACM CCS 18, pp.
1837–1854. ACM Press (2018). https://doi.org/10.1145/3243734.3243788
38. Lyubashevsky, V.: Lattice-based identiﬁcation schemes secure under active attacks.
In: Cramer, R. (ed.) PKC 2008. LNCS, vol. 4939, pp. 162–179. Springer, Heidelberg
(2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-78440-1 10
39. Lyubashevsky, V.: Fiat-Shamir with aborts: applications to lattice and factoring-
based signatures. In: Matsui, M. (ed.) ASIACRYPT 2009. LNCS, vol. 5912, pp.
598–616. Springer, Heidelberg, December 2009. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
642-10366-7 35
40. Lyubashevsky, V.: Basic lattice cryptography: encryption and Fiat-Shamir signa-
tures. https://www.tinyurl.com/latticesurvey. Accessed Apr 2021 (2020)

Practical Non-interactive PVSS with Thousands of Parties
487
41. Lyubashevsky, V., Nguyen, N.K., Seiler, G.: Practical lattice-based zero-knowledge
proofs for integer relations. In: CCS, pp. 1051–1070. ACM (2020). https://doi.org/
10.1145/3372297.3417894
42. Lyubashevsky, V., Nguyen, N.K., Seiler, G.: Shorter lattice-based zero-knowledge
proofs via one-time commitments. In: Garay, J.A. (ed.) Public-Key Cryptography
- PKC 2021, Part I. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 12710, pp. 215–241.
Springer (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-75245-3 9
43. Melchor, C.A., Barrier, J., Fousse, L., Killijian, M.O.: XPIR: private information
retrieval for everyone. Proc. Privacy Enhancing Technol. 2016, 155–174 (2016)
44. Olumoﬁn, F., Goldberg, I.: Revisiting the computational practicality of private
information retrieval. In: Danezis, G. (ed.) FC 2011. LNCS, vol. 7035, pp. 158–
172. Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-27576-0 13
45. Paillier, P.: Public-key cryptosystems based on composite degree residuosity
classes. In: Stern, J. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 1999. LNCS, vol. 1592, pp. 223–238.
Springer, Heidelberg (1999). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48910-X 16
46. Parno, B., Howell, J., Gentry, C., Raykova, M.: Pinocchio: nearly practical veriﬁ-
able computation. In: 2013 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, pp. 238–252.
IEEE (2013). https://doi.org/10.1109/SP.2013.47
47. Peikert, C., Vaikuntanathan, V., Waters, B.: A framework for eﬃcient and compos-
able oblivious transfer. In: Wagner, D.A. (ed.) Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO
2008, 28th Annual International Cryptology Conference, Santa Barbara, CA, USA,
17–21 August 2008. Proceedings. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 5157,
pp. 554–571. Springer (2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-85174-5 31
48. Rambaud, M., Urban, A.: Almost-asynchronous MPC under honest majority, revis-
ited. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch. 2021, 503 (2021)
49. Regev, O.: On lattices, learning with errors, random linear codes, and cryptog-
raphy. J. ACM 56(6), 34:1–34:40 (2009). http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1568318.
1568324
50. Reyzin, L., Smith, A., Yakoubov, S.: Turning hate into love: compact homomorphic
ad hoc threshold encryption for scalable MPC. In: International Symposium on
Cyber Security Cryptography and Machine Learning, pp. 361–378. Springer (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-78086-9 27
51. Ruiz, A., Villar, J.L.: Publicly veriﬁable secret sharing from Paillier’s cryptosys-
tem. In: WEWoRC 2005-Western European Workshop on Research in Cryptology.
Gesellschaft f¨ur Informatik eV (2005)
52. Schoenmakers, B.: A simple publicly veriﬁable secret sharing scheme and its appli-
cation to electronic voting. In: Annual International Cryptology Conference, pp.
148–164. Springer (1999). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48405-1 10
53. Sion, R., Carbunar, B.: On the computational practicality of private information
retrieval. In: Proceedings of the Network and Distributed Systems Security Sym-
posium, pp. 2006–06. Internet Society (2007)
54. Stadler, M.: Publicly veriﬁable secret sharing. In: Advances in Cryptology - EURO-
CRYPT ’96, International Conference on the Theory and Application of Crypto-
graphic Techniques, 12–16 May 1996, Saragossa, Spain, Proceeding. Lecture Notes
in Computer Science, vol. 1070, pp. 190–199. Springer (1996). https://doi.org/10.
1007/3-540-68339-9 17
55. Wu, T.Y., Tseng, Y.M.: A pairing-based publicly veriﬁable secret sharing scheme.
J. Syst. Sci. Complex. 24(1), 186–194 (2011)
56. Young, A., Yung, M.: A PVSS as hard as discrete log and shareholder separability.
In: Kim, K. (ed.) PKC 2001. LNCS, vol. 1992, pp. 287–299. Springer, Heidelberg
(2001). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44586-2 21

