Anamorphic Encryption: Private
Communication Against a Dictator
Giuseppe Persiano1, Duong Hieu Phan2, and Moti Yung3,4(B)
1 Universit`a di Salerno, Salerno, Italy
giuper@gmail.com
2 Telecom Paris, Institut Polytechnique de Paris, Paris, France
hieu.phan@telecom-paris.fr
3 Google LLC, New York, NY, USA
motiyung@gmail.com
4 Columbia University, New York City, USA
Abstract. Cryptosystems have been developed over the years under the
typical prevalent setting which assumes that the receiver’s key is kept
secure from the adversary, and that the choice of the message to be sent
is freely performed by the sender and is kept secure from the adversary as
well. Under these fundamental and basic operational assumptions, mod-
ern Cryptography has ﬂourished over the last half a century or so, with
amazing achievements: New systems (including public-key Cryptogra-
phy), beautiful and useful models (including security deﬁnitions such as
semantic security), and new primitives (such as zero-knowledge proofs)
have been developed. Furthermore, these fundamental achievements have
been translated into actual working systems, and span many of the daily
human activities over the Internet.
However, in recent years, there is an overgrowing pressure from many
governments to allow the government itself access to keys and messages
of encryption systems (under various names: escrow encryption, emer-
gency access, communication decency acts, etc.). Numerous non-direct
arguments against such policies have been raised, such as “the bad guys
can utilize other encryption system” so all other cryptosystems have to be
declared illegal, or that “allowing the government access is an ill-advised
policy since it creates a natural weak systems security point, which may
attract others (to masquerade as the government).” It has remained a fun-
damental open issue, though, to show directly that the above mentioned
eﬀorts by a government (called here “a dictator” for brevity) which man-
date breaking of the basic operational assumption (and disallowing other
cryptosystems), is, in fact, a futile exercise. This is a direct technical point
which needs to be made and has not been made to date.
In this work, as a technical demonstration of the futility of the dicta-
tor’s demands, we invent the notion of “Anamorphic Encryption” which
shows that even if the dictator gets the keys and the messages used in
the system (before anything is sent) and no other system is allowed,
there is a covert way within the context of well established public-
key cryptosystems for an entity to immediately (with no latency) send
piggybacked secure messages which are, in spite of the stringent dictator
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
O. Dunkelman and S. Dziembowski (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2022, LNCS 13276, pp. 34–63, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-07085-3_2

Anamorphic Encryption: Private Communication Against a Dictator
35
conditions, hidden from the dictator itself! We feel that this may be an
important direct technical argument against the nature of governments’
attempts to police the use of strong cryptographic systems, and we hope
to stimulate further works in this direction.
1
Introduction
Cryptography, like most scientiﬁc ﬁelds, has a profound impact on our Society,
and even more so as it touches upon one of the most basic human rights, the right
to privacy. The threats to privacy posed by the increased reliance on electronic
forms of communication has been very well identiﬁed (see, for example, [DL])
and there has been a very vigorous debate between technologists and politicians
about the ways of limiting the power of encryption as a safeguard to privacy
(see the discussion on escrow systems below). One of the beneﬁcial eﬀects of the
debate has been the increased awareness of the need to protect our privacy; this
is witnessed by the growing use of end to end encryption (E2E encryption) in,
for example, messaging apps [MP16,Wha20].
Cryptography “rearranges power” [Rog15] and it obviously attracts the
attention of the institutions and individuals that hold the same power that
Cryptography threatens to rearrange. Among these power holding institutions,
our main concerns involve the institutions that have the power to undermine
the two assumptions on which Cryptography relies. As we argue below these
assumptions, which have long gone overlooked (or implicit), are rather diﬀerent
in nature from the usual cryptographic assumptions (e.g., about the computing
power of parties). More precisely, the security guarantees oﬀered by Cryptogra-
phy even for its most basic and classic setting, two-party private communication
[Sha49], rely on two implicit and fundamental assumptions, one regarding the
sender and one regarding the receiver, that can be challenged by exactly those
parties whose power Cryptography threatens to limit. When these assumptions
are challenged, all privacy guarantees are void (this holds for symmetric [Fei73]
as well as for public key [DH76,RSA78,GM84] systems).
Concretely, it is assumed that the encryption and the decryption processes are
conducted freely and privately by the sender and the receiver, respectively. Specif-
ically, on the receiver’s side, a message, once encrypted, is considered private based
on the assumption that the receiver’s (Bob’s) private key (regardless of where it
resides) is not compromised. In fact, relying solely on the key not being compro-
mised and not on other obscurities is known as the Kerckhoﬀs principle and was
already formulated in 1883 [Ker83]. On the sender’s side, in turn, it is concretely
assumed that the sender (Alice) is free to pick the message to be sent.
Indeed, if Alice is not free to pick the message to be sent, we can hardly talk
of communication “from Alice to Bob.” Similarly, if Bob’s secret key is compro-
mised (and the key is the only source of secrecy), we cannot consider the com-
munication to be private. In other words, Cryptography currently implements
private communication assuming that encryption takes as input a message freely
chosen by Alice and that, among all other parties, only Bob has access to the
key necessary for decryption. We call these two assumptions the sender-freedom
assumption and the receiver-privacy assumption, respectively.

36
G. Persiano et al.
Both assumptions are realistic for normal settings, and thus, it is not a big
surprise that the majority of symmetric and asymmetric encryption systems
have been developed under them, and it is so natural that these are implicit
in the modeling. Yet, these assumptions fail to exist in a dictator-led country
where law enforcement agencies have the (legal) power to get the private key of
citizens to be surrendered upon request (thus undermining the receiver-privacy
assumption). Furthermore, in a dictatorship, individuals can be forced by the
authorities to encrypt and send some adversary selected (e.g., wrong) statements
(thus undermining the sender-freedom assumption). Note that while we charac-
terize the above as a dictator-led country, it is quite prevalent around the world
today for governments (of all types) to ask for at least some of the above powers
when discussing encryption!
Let us now discuss the two assumptions more in depth.
The Receiver-Privacy Assumption. Achieving security without having to rely on
this assumption asks us to consider the classical cryptographic problem of two
parties that wish to privately communicate in the presence of an adversary that
has the ability to eavesdrop on all communication between the two parties and the
power to request the receiver’s secret key1. At ﬁrst sight, achieving privacy against
such an adversary seems like an impossible task since, by deﬁnition, the secret
key allows for the decryption of any ciphertext and, once an adversary has gained
access to the secret key, nothing can stop it from decrypting the ciphertexts.
Before giving an intuitive idea of how we plan to approach this seemingly
impossible problem, we want to elaborate on the security threat that we address
and how it puts further constraints on the solution space. As mentioned before,
this setting models adversaries of the scale of a nation state whose government
has the “legal” power to force citizens to reveal their secret keys. In such a set-
ting, it is expected that a citizen would abide by the request as any refusal could
be considered as evidence that the communication was unlawful (or be considered
such in the eyes of the adversary/government); in fact, the citizens may wish (as
an advantage in an hostile environment) to be able to prove the benign nature of
their messages. As we shall see, addressing the needs of privacy in the presence of
such a powerful adversary in an eﬀective way cannot be achieved by introducing
new constructions that would immediately be ruled as illegal, but rather by show-
ing that existing constructions can be adapted to support the new need. Indeed,
for its own nature, the deployment itself of countermeasures must be hidden from
the adversary as a government has the legal means and the power to make it illegal.
The Sender-Freedom Assumption. This assumption posits that the sender Alice
is free to choose which message to encrypt; without this assumption, the mean-
ing of communication originating from Alice is lost. It is not diﬃcult to imagine
a setting in which someone is under duress to send a ciphertext with a fake
message. Speciﬁcally, the sender might be forced to produce a ciphertext ct for
a given message m, the forced message, with respect to a given public key fPK,
1 This is masterly described in xkcd comic 538 (see https://xkcd.com/538).

Anamorphic Encryption: Private Communication Against a Dictator
37
the forced public key. In addition the adversary will want to see the coin tosses R
used to produce ct so as to be able to check that ct = Enc(fPK, m; R). Is there a
way for the sender to satisfy the adversary but still send a message other than m
to some other party? Clearly, if the adversary has the power to pick the message
m and the randomness to be used, then the sender has no maneuvering space.
This would be equivalent to the adversary holding Alice’s cellphone and using
it to send messages on Alice’s behalf; clearly (with no freedom to choose any-
thing) nothing can be done to prevent this (which is a, de facto, impersonation
of Alice). Instead, we do not consider impersonation, but rather consider the
setting in which the more remote adversary does select the message to be sent,
lets Alice compute the ciphertext ct and later on Alice is required to exhibit the
coin tosses used to compute ct; i.e., the adversary does not completely control
the cryptographic device as in an impersonation attack, it allows strong cryp-
tography as well, but forces a valid explanation for the ciphertext for messages
it chooses, including possibly some one-way hash post-processing of truly ran-
dom bits to produce the random bits used in encryption, to prevent, e.g., some
meaningful message being part of the randomness used for systems that encrypt
over a message and randomness, and issues of this sort.
Again, in authoritarian regimes, under threats, dissidents are often forced to
send false statements to public and international newspapers. In this situation,
an international human rights organization (HR) that is not under the control of
the dictator can release its public key. When dissidents in a country ruled by a
dictator are forced by the authority to send false statements to an international
newspaper, say AP News under the public key of AP News, dissidents can obey
that request while being able to add hidden messages to HR, for example saying
that what they are saying is false, as an additional protection.
Normative Prescriptions. One may ask: most of Cryptography is based on com-
putational assumptions and this has not slowed down its deployment in real-
world applications; why should we be worried by two extra assumptions? Let us
pause and ask ourselves why we believe in the assumptions we use to design cryp-
tographic schemes. The assumed hardness of computational problems reﬂects our
current intuition about and understanding of Nature (and thus, its representa-
tion within mathematical models): randomness, one-way functions, and trapdoor
functions do exist in our current understanding of Nature. On the other hand,
let us look at the receiver-privacy assumption. Why do we believe that users will
not be forced to reveal their private key? Essentially because there is a norma-
tive prescription2 by which forcing someone to do something against its will is a
punishable crime. In other words, society attaches a punishment to anybody who
violates the receiver-privacy assumption. The same holds for the sender-freedom
assumption. However normative prescriptions are not laws of Nature (not inher-
ent to the way things are!) and they can be modiﬁed by a new social/normative
re-order. And this is exactly what a dictator will do. On the other hand, quite
2 We do not use the term “law” to mark the conceptual diﬀerence from “law of
Nature.”

38
G. Persiano et al.
obviously, no dictator will ever be able to make a one-way function eﬃciently
invertible or will be able to predict a random bit3.
Indeed Cryptography can be seen as an eﬀort to replace assumptions based on
normative prescriptions with milder assumptions leveraging our understanding
of Nature and, more speciﬁcally, of Computational Complexity (combined with
Information Theory) and/or of Computing Architectures. A primary example of
this eﬀort is the concept of Secure Multiparty Computation (aka Private Function
Evaluation). If we accept assumptions based on normative prescriptions, then we
can identify some individual to act as a trusted third party (TTP); that is, the
TTP receives the private inputs and returns the value of the function to be com-
puted. A law (a normative prescription) will describe the expected behavior of the
TTP and identify the penalties for not following the prescription. On the other
hand, the ﬁeld of Secure multi-party computation [Yao86,GMW87] has shown
how to achieve the same without relying on normative prescriptions regarding the
TTP (replacing it with reliance on computational complexity assumptions and/or
architectural separation and isolation of computing elements).
2
Related Works
Having presented the crux of our notion, let us examine related works and notions
dealing with other aspects of violations of the two implicit normative assump-
tions above.
Key-Escrow. The availability and proliferation of E2E encryption for smart-
phone messaging applications (see [MP16,ACD19,Wha20] for two of the most
widely used applications and for some of the formal treatment of the Cryptogra-
phy on which they are based) has renewed the debate between law enforcement
and government security agencies, and technologists. Actually, the debate goes
back to at almost 30 years ago when the Internet became mainstream (early
1990s). The following quote is from [Dak96]:
Presently, anyone can obtain encryption devices for voice or data transmis-
sions. Unfortunately, this group may include criminals, terrorists and drug deal-
ers. Law enforcement groups believe this could soon create a devastating problem
because these authorities commonly rely on electronic surveillance, also known as
“wiretapping”, as a tool for ﬁghting crime. That is, if criminals can use advanced
encryption technology in their transmissions, electronic surveillance techniques
could be rendered useless because of law enforcement’s inability to decode the
message.
Much research in Cryptography has focused on methods to make the strong
privacy guarantees oﬀered by encryption ineﬀective under very speciﬁc and well
identiﬁed situations. An early prototypical and pioneering example of this kind
of work is the concept of a Fair Cryptosystem by Micali [Mic] that was one of
the ﬁrst to consider the possibility of targeted revocation of the privacy oﬀered
3 In “The Game-Players of Titan”, a novel by Philip K. Dick, randomness is the only
weapon humans can use against silicon-based telepath aliens from Titan, called vugs.

Anamorphic Encryption: Private Communication Against a Dictator
39
by encryption. Roughly speaking, this was achieved by sharing the secret key
among a number of parties (the majority of which is assumed to be honest, say)
and each would reveal its share, so as to allow reconstruction, only if a court
order to that eﬀect would be produced. In 1993 (essentially at the same time of
Fair Cryptosystems), the US government put forth The Clipper proposal [Cli]
by which all strong encryption systems had to retain a copy of keys necessary to
decrypt information with a trusted third party who would turn over keys to law
enforcement upon proper legal authorization. The Clipper chip was attempting
to bind the ability to identify the key of the sender to facilitate government
access and the ability to decrypt. The proposal had a ﬂaws involving a too small
authentication ﬁeld [Bla94] and, actually, the binding was shown to be broken
so as to bypass the mechanism [FY93]. All the above systems employed either
trusted hardware or other trusted elements (trustees) added to the Public-Key
Infrastructure setting. An open question at the time was to construct a “software
only” escrow, employing the existing trusted point of the certiﬁcation authority
within the existing public key infrastructure as a handle (see [YY98]).
Given general security concerns, the report by Abelson et al. [AAB+97] (see
also [AAB+15]) identiﬁes the major threats of such a key-escrow system (pri-
marily, the availability of an access method to the user’s encrypted data which is
not under the user own responsibility). The possibility that a key-escrow system
could be abused by law-enforcement agency to violate the privacy of the users
and to conduct large scale surveillance, which is our main concern in this paper,
and was identiﬁed in the ﬁrst report [AAB+97] that looked into the privacy
issues arising from the Clipper chip and from other key-escrow mechanisms. We
note that, obviously, the same concerns and more hold if weak Cryptography,
which can be broken with enough feasible resources, is mandated in our mod-
ern time and with available public computational resources, such Cryptography
simply does not work.
The main approach taken by cryptographers to address the above important
point regarding escrow has been to construct systems relying on cryptographic
tools (mathematical assumptions) that will make it impossible for governments
to infringe on the privacy of the individuals and the guarantees made relying
on a combination of normative assumptions as well as on cryptographic prim-
itives. For example, the guarantee oﬀered by a Fair Cryptosystem rely on the
cryptographic strength of the secret-sharing primitives and on the normative
prescription that the majority of shareholders will only act upon a request from
the recognized authority, which, in turn, relies on the assumption that share
holder are honest and uncoercible. From our point of view it is natural to ask:
What if the authority is a dictator, and thus normative prescriptions have no
eﬀect?
Along these lines, the very recent work of Green et al. [GKVL] oﬀers the
most complete approach by formally deﬁning the desired properties for a law
enforcement access system and putting forth the notion of an abuse-resistant
law enforcement access system (ARLEAS). In addition, they gave a feasibil-
ity result using standard cryptographic techniques. Most systems, including

40
G. Persiano et al.
ARLEAS [GKVL], consider three types of parties: users, that employ encryption
to exchange messages; law enforcement, that need to access encrypted messages
produced by users; judiciary, that grants or denies authorizations to the access
requests of the law enforcement. Note that such a system does not oﬀer any pro-
tection against dictatorial states. First of all, in most dictatorships the judiciary
is not an independent power thus making the abuse-resistant property nothing
more than a wish. Actually, a key-escrow system makes it even easier for a dic-
tator to violate the privacy of the users as it is enough to nominate themselves,
as dictators tend to do, to be the judiciary and law enforcement. Even more
importantly, note that all such systems still rely on the receiver-privacy and
sender-freedom assumptions.
The main technical objective of our work is to show that one can achieve pri-
vacy in communication using existing cryptographic systems even in the presence
of a dictator without relying on any normative prescription.
Deniable Encryption. The concept of Deniable Encryption, put forth by Canetti
et al. [CDNO97], might seem to be relevant to our setting. A deniable encryption
scheme allows the sender to generate fake coin tosses that make the ciphertext
looks like an encryption of another, innocent, cleartext. So whenever the sender
is requested to open a ciphertext by surrendering the coin tosses, he can just
generate fake coin tosses and thus eﬀectively conceal the real plaintext. However,
an assumption in deniable encryption is that the adversary has the power to
approach the sender after the ciphertext was transmitted. It was mentioned in
[CDNO97] that deniability is impossible in the context of direct physical access,
where “Eve [the adversary] approaches Alice [the sender] before the transmission
and requires Alice [the sender] to send speciﬁc messages”. It was clearly stated
in the original paper [CDNO97] that “Certainly, if Alice [the sender] must hand
Eve [the adversary] the real cleartext and random bits then no protection is
possible”. Hence, while deniability is an important property, it does not solve
the issue of facing a dictator.
Kleptography. The concept of having a cryptosystem inside another cryptosys-
tem was used in Kleptography [YYa,YY97,YYb]. However, the goal in Kleptog-
raphy is to attack the cryptosystem owner by using inside an implementation (or
a speciﬁcation) a method to leak exclusively to an adversary. This goal is in fact,
not to help against an adversary, but to covertly introduce an adversary, and is
a tool to help a dictator!. In some sense it can be used as an implicit key escrow,
and in some formal sense it negated the US government plan to distribute cryp-
tography in black-box hardware devices. Due to Snowden revelations, in fact, an
Elliptic Curve variant of the repeated DH kleptogram in the above works was
deployed in the Dual-EC pseudorandom generator standard, as was veriﬁed in
[CNE+14]. As a response, nowadays, the cryptographic community is working
on systems and architectures which can mitigate such system subversion attacks
(see [BPR,RTYZ,RTYZ17]).

Anamorphic Encryption: Private Communication Against a Dictator
41
Steganography and “Chaﬃng and Winnowing”. The other tool to send secret
messages with is steganography, where a message is concealed within another
message (exploiting some redundancy in the message structure and style). This
is always possible, but systems of this nature are hard to deploy widely and
systematically as part of an established large scale computing base in a situation
it is not allowed (by the dictator).
In a response to the US government possibly restricting encryption systems
while allowing authentication method as part of its cryptographic export control,
Rivest proposed in 1998 the “chaﬃng and winnowing” system [Riv]. This system
shows how sharing a MAC key for authentication is turned into a method for
sending concealed message (in some steganographic sense). This clearly demon-
strated that the separation of cryptography for authentication and cryptography
for conﬁdentiality, proposed by the possible export regulation, is quite artiﬁcial,
and gave a way to bypass key escrow using authentication keys which were not
proposed to be part of escrow encryption schemes at the time. Note that in our
scenario of the dictator, the dictator can certainly ask for a MAC (authentica-
tion) key as well and get the concealed message itself.
PublicKey Steganography and Subvertable Backdoored Encryption. von Ahn
and Hopper [vAH04] were the ﬁrst to study steganographic public key and
key exchange. Their constructions rely on the existence of a public random
string that cannot be tampered or chosen by the dictator. The work of Horel
et al. [HPRV19] removes this assumptions by showing that steganographic key
exchange can be achieved without resorting to public information. The key
exchange is used then in conjunction with the rejection sampling technique (see
Sect. 5.1).
Comparing our model with the one of [HPRV19], we note that our model
assumes the parties have originally shared (private and thus un-tampered by
dictator) information. This, importantly, allows for zero-latency communica-
tion hidden from the dictator. In Sect. 5.3 nevertheless, we show how to com-
bine [HPRV19] with our construction thus sacriﬁcing zero-latency and dispensing
with the need of shared information. Comparing, in turn, one of our main solu-
tions (see Sect. 5.3) with the one of Horel et al. [HPRV19] we note that, for a
ciphertext carrying λ bits, rejection sampling allows to transmit O(log λ) extra
bits whereas our construction carries λ thus achieving bandwidth rate of 1 (as
opposed to (log λ)/λ). Such a bandwidth rate is rare in steganographic systems
in general. Our second result in Sect. 6 also achieves zero latency, and does not
need the parties to share a private key.
3
Our Approach
In this section, we would like to give a taste of our approach, and present a generic
but limited solution that shows its feasibility. For concreteness, we consider the
receiver’s side.
As we have already observed, there is no hope for preventing an adversary
that is in possession of the secret key from decrypting a ciphertext. In turn,

42
G. Persiano et al.
one might think of ciphertexts that carry two messages and a diﬀerent key is
needed for each of them. When asked for the secret key, the receiver might
release only one of the two keys, thus protecting one of the messages. But then,
if the adversary knows that there are two keys, why should he be happy to
receive just one key? Because we will make sure that the adversary believes that
there is no second key! Roughly speaking, we would like to have an encryption
scheme for which it is possible to generate a public key with one secret key or,
alternatively, to generate a public key that has two associated secret keys. More
precisely, the technical core of our proposed solution consists of the concept of
an Anamorphic Encryption scheme, a special encryption scheme whose public
keys can be generated in one of two possible modes: normal or anamorphic.
– A Normal public key is associated with a Normal secret key and it can be used
for the normal encryption functionality: the sender encrypts the message m
using the public key, and the receiver decrypts the ciphertext using the secret
key. An adversarial authority (i.e., the dictator) that is in possession of a
ciphertext can (legally) force the receiver to surrender the secret key and
thus gain access to the message.
– An Anamorphic4 public key instead is associated with two secret keys: a
normal secret key and a double secret key. A ciphertext ct produced with
an anamorphic public key carries two messages: the normal message m0,
that can be obtained by decrypting ct using the normal secret key; and the
anamorphic message m1, only visible to parties that have the double secret
key. When requested to surrender his secret key to allow inspection of the
ciphertexts, the owner of an anamorphic public key will pretend that the key
is normal and reveal the normal secret key. Thus, the dictator will gain access
only to the normal message m0 and the special message m1 is kept private.
Normal public keys can be used by receivers who do not expect their secret keys
to be requested by the adversarial authority. Actually, these users need not even
know about anamorphic public keys and their operations will not be aﬀected
in any way. Anamorphic public keys could instead be generated by someone
who has reasons to believe that the dictator will want to get the information he
has received; for example, an investigative reporter or an opposition leader. As
an example, consider an investigative reporter Bob who wants to communicate
in a private way with his informant, Alice. Bob sets up his public key as an
anamorphic key and gives Alice the double secret key. Note that Bob publishes
his anamorphic public key for everybody to use. However, when Alice has some
sensitive information for Bob, she uses the double key obtained from Bob to
produce an anamorphic ciphertext carrying two messages: m0 is set equal to
some innocent looking message (for example, a general question about the work
of the reporter; recall that in a dictatorship Alice does not even have a free choice
4 The adjective Anamorphic is used to denote a drawing with a distorted projection
that appears normal when viewed from a particular point or with a suitable mirror
or lens. Similarly, an anamorphic ciphertext will reveal a diﬀerent plaintext when
decrypted with a suitable key.

Anamorphic Encryption: Private Communication Against a Dictator
43
of this message), and message m1 will instead contain the sensitive information
that Alice wishes to communicate to Bob. Should Bob be requested to surrender
his secret key, he will pretend that his public key is just a normal public key and
will reveal the normal secret key. In this way the adversary will be able to read
message m0 (the innocent message containing no sensitive information) and will
gain no access to the potentially incriminating message m1.
Clearly, for this to work the following conditions must be satisﬁed:
– a pair of anamorphic public and secret keys must be indistinguishable from
a normal corresponding pair; and
– the ciphertexts produced using an anamorphic public key must be indistin-
guishable from those produced by a normal public key.
In addition, we are interested in performance parameters: We would like the
system to have zero-latency in the sense that the anamorphic system is ready
to be used whenever the normal system is ready. Additionally, we are interested
in system where the anamorphic bandwidth rate (i.e., number of anomorphic bit
transmitted divided by the number of normal bits transmitted) is high (whenever
and as much as possible).
A Simple Solution that Does Not Work. At ﬁrst, one might think that construct-
ing an Anamorphic Encryption scheme is not diﬃcult and indeed it is possible
to turn any encryption scheme E into a Anamorphic Encryption AME in the
following rather straightforward way by adding redundancy to the ciphertext.
The normal encryption process of AME consists of computing a ciphertext ct
according to E and then outputting (ct, R), where R is a randomly selected
string. During the decryption process of AME with the normal secret key, the
random string R is ignored and the message is obtained by decrypting ct accord-
ing to E. Thus, a normal pair of public and secret key for AME is simply a pair of
keys from E. An anamorphic public key instead is associated also with the secret
key K of a symmetric encryption scheme E′ with pseudorandom ciphertexts (e.g.,
it is a pseudorandom permutation). During the anamorphic encryption process,
ciphertext ct is an encryption of m0 according to E and the random string R
that is appended to ct is an encryption of m1 with respect to E′ computed using
key K that, thus, plays the role of the double key. Note that the public keys
are identical and, by the pseudorandomness properties of the ciphertexts of E′,
a normal ciphertext, in which R is truly random, is indistinguishable from an
anamorphic ciphertext in which R is a ciphertext of E′.
So, the question is: do we have a satisfactory solutions? Hardly so! The mere
fact of using a standard encryption scheme and augmenting each ciphertext with
a random string is suspicious and, moreover, a user not interested in sending
hidden messages has no incentive to append a random string to the ciphertext
just to attract the attention of the dictator. Rather we are interested in showing
that existing encryption schemes can be used, in the form in which they have been
originally designed, to provide a second channel that is secure also with respect
to an adversary that has access to the secret key of the receiver. In practice,
this will not raise any suspicion since all ciphertexts will be from a standard

44
G. Persiano et al.
encryption scheme or will be indistinguishable from them. In addition, no extra
action (like generating and appending a random string to each ciphertext) is
required from the normal users who can actually be completely unaware of the
special mode of operation.
In other words the question we ask is not
Can we construct an Anamorphic Encryption scheme?
but rather:
Is any of the existing encryption schemes also Anamorphic?
A positive answer to this question will constitute technical evidence of the
futility of the eﬀorts of governments around the world (dictatorships and democ-
racies) to control encryption.
Our Main Technical Contributions. The rest of this paper consists of identi-
fying encryption schemes that appear in the literature which address the two
limitations we identiﬁed above.
– Receiver’s side. We show that the Naor-Yung paradigm for CCA secure
encryption from CPA secure encryption gives receiver-Anamorphic Encryp-
tion schemes (see Deﬁnition 1) with a bandwidth rate of 1. That is, each
ciphertext for λ plaintext bits carries λ additional bits that are hidden from
the dictator. Moreover, as in the public key model, communication hidden
from the dictator can start with zero latency.
– Sender’s side. We show that a lattice based cryptosystems from the liter-
ature [Reg05,GPV08] are sender-Anamorphic Encryption (see Deﬁnition 3)
and they also achieve hidden communication with zero latency. In addition,
they do not require the sender and receiver to share any secret (just that there
is an additional receiver in the system), thus, enhancing their practicality.
Given these, one can conclude that the “Crypto Wars” which consists of
attacks on the free use of strong cryptography (involving requirements to give
keys of such cryptographic schemes to the dictator) are possibly futile. One may
then conclude that dictators should mandate only weak cryptography! But, due to
earlier battles, we are already know that disallowing strong Cryptography is totally
unhelpful to and imposes limits on the development of advanced information
technology systems, implying dire consequences to the economy and to society.
Roadmap. In Sect. 4, we put forth the concept of a Receiver-Anamorphic Encryp-
tion and give a formal notion of security. In Sect. 5.3, we show that the Naor-Yung
paradigm [NY90] gives Receiver-Anamorphic Encryption with zero latency and
bandwidth rate 1. In Sect. 6, we deﬁne the concept of an Sender-Anamorphic
Encryption that can be used to obtain private communication when the sender-
freedom assumption does not hold. We show that lattice-based cryptosystems
have this property (and give some evidence that other public key cryptosystems
are not Sender-Anamorphic Encryption). The scheme is zero-latency as well.

Anamorphic Encryption: Private Communication Against a Dictator
45
4
Receiver-Anamorphic Encryption
In this section we present the concept of a Receiver-Anamorphic Encryption
scheme that provides private communication without relying on the receiver-
privacy assumption (while in Sect. 6 we will present the concept of a Sender-
Anamorphic Encryption scheme).
A Receiver-Anamorphic Encryption scheme (a Receiver-AM scheme) consists
of two encryption schemes: the normal scheme (KG, Enc, Dec) and the anamor-
phic scheme (aKG, aEnc, aDec). It can be deployed as normal scheme in which
case Bob runs the (real) key generation algorithm KG to obtain a pair of keys
(PK, SK) and, as usual, publishes PK. When Alice wishes to send message m,
she produces ciphertext ct by running the (real) encryption algorithm Enc by
using PK and m. When ct is received by Bob, it is decrypted by running the
(real) decryption algorithm Dec and using SK. Thus, when deployed as normal a
Receiver-AM is just a regular public-key encryption scheme. If the dictator comes
for the secret key, Bob surrenders SK. We are interested in Receiver-AM schemes
in which the normal scheme is an established and already used cryptosystem.
Bob deploys the scheme as anamorphic when he wants to protect the conﬁ-
dentiality of the communication with Alice even in the event that he is forced
to surrender his secret decryption key to the dictator. In this case, Bob runs the
anamorphic key generation algorithm aKG that returns a pair of anamorphic
public-secret keys (aPK, aSK) along with a special key, dkey, called the double
key. As usual, Bob publishes aPK and keeps aSK private but dkey is shared with
Alice. If asked, Bob will surrender aSK to the dictator. The pair (aPK, aSK) is a
fully functional pair of keys: if a message m is encrypted by using Enc and aPK,
it can be decrypted by Dec on input aSK. Key dkey is instead used by Alice to
send Bob messages that remain conﬁdential even if aSK is compromised. Speciﬁ-
cally, whenever Alice has a message m1 that must remain conﬁdential, she picks
an innocent looking message m0 and encrypts (m0, m1) using the anamorphic
encryption algorithm aEnc with dkey. The ciphertext ct produced by aEnc has
the property that it returns m0 when decrypted with the normal decryption
algorithm Dec and with key aSK; whereas it returns m1 when decrypted by run-
ning the anamorphic decryption algorithm aDec on input the double key dkey.
In other words, the authority will obtain m0 and Bob will obtain m1. Clearly,
the ciphertext produced by Alice must indistinguishable from a ciphertext of m1
produced using Enc even to an adversary that has access to aSK.
We stress again that Alice and Bob share a key, dkey, in order to achieve
privacy without having to rely on the secret-key assumption.
4.1
Syntax
In this section we formally deﬁne the concept of a Receiver-Anamorphic Encryp-
tion scheme. Then in Sect. 4.3 we will present the corresponding security notion.
Deﬁnition 1. An encryption scheme AME = (AME.KG, AME.Enc, AME.Dec) is
a Receiver-Anamorphic Encryption (or, simply, a Receiver-AM) if there exists

46
G. Persiano et al.
an anamorphic triplet aAME = (AME.aKG, AME.aEnc, AME.aDec) with the fol-
lowing syntax
– AME.aKG takes as input the security parameter 1λ and returns an anamorphic
public key aPK, an anamorphic secret key aSK and a double key dkey.
– AME.aEnc takes as input the double key dkey and two messages m0 and m1
and returns an anamorphic ciphertext act.
– AME.aDec takes as input the double key dkey and an anamorphic ciphertext
act, computed by running AME.aEnc on input dkey and messages m0 and m1,
and returns message m1.
As we have seen previously, a Receiver-AM scheme can be deployed as normal
or as anamorphic. When Bob deploys the Receiver-AM scheme as anamorphic,
Alice (or any other user that has received dkey from Bob) can use aEnc to
produce ciphertexts. However, Bob cannot instruct all users to use aEnc as that
would be like admitting that he has deployed the scheme as anamorphic; in other
words users that are unaware that the scheme has been deployed as anamorphic
will use Enc. It is thus crucial that the encryption-decryption functionality does
not break for these users, despite using the normal encryption algorithm with
an anamorphic public key. Indeed, the fact that ciphertexts generated by the
normal encryption algorithm cannot be decrypted could be a strong evidence, if
not a proof, that the public key is anamorphic.
Next, we formally identify the four diﬀerent modes of operations that arise
from mixing normal, and anamorphic algorithms and keys and then in Sect. 4.3
we present our security notion.
4.2
Modes of Operation
A Receiver-AM scheme AME naturally deﬁnes the following four modes of oper-
ation, each corresponding to a diﬀerent scenario. Of these four modes, one uses
the normal keys and three use anamorphic keys. The security deﬁnition (see
Deﬁnition 4) will require that, roughly speaking, the the normal and the fully
anamorphic mode be indistinguishable. This is suﬃcient to prove that all of
them are indeed pairwise indistinguishable.
1. The fully anamorphic encryption mode is used when Bob deploys the scheme
as anamorphic and Alice uses dkey to send Bob a private message. This
mode is associated with the triplet of algorithms fAME ˆm = (AME.aKG3,
AME.aEnc1, ˆm, AME.aDec) where, for every message ˆm,
– AME.aKG3(1λ) is the algorithm that runs AME.aKG(1λ) obtaining (aPK,
aSK, dkey) and returns dkey. Note that the index in aKG3 denotes the
components of the triplet generated by aKG that is selected to appear in
the output.
– AME.aEnc1, ˆm(aPK, m) is the algorithm that returns AME.aEnc(aPK,
ˆm, m). Note that index 1 in AME.aEnc1, ˆm denotes that message ˆm will
be passed as ﬁrst message to algorithm aEnc.
Note that fAME ˆm is, for every ˆm, a symmetric encryption scheme (Fig. 1).

Anamorphic Encryption: Private Communication Against a Dictator
47
Key Gen. Encryption Decryption
Fully Anamorphic
aKG
aEnc
aDec
Anamorphic with Normal Dec
aKG
aEnc
Dec
Anamorphic with Normal Enc
aKG
Enc
Dec
Normal
KG
Enc
Dec
Fig. 1. The four modes of operation of an anamorphic encryption scheme. The fully
anamorphic mode is used by Bob to communicate privately with Alice. The anamorphic
mode with normal decryption is used by Bob when the dictator requests the decryption
of an anamorphic ciphertext sent by Alice. The anamorphic mode with normal encryp-
tion is used by Charlie, unaware that Bob has an anamorphic key, to send a message
to Bob. The normal mode is used by Charlie that sets up his key in normal mode
to receive messages from other users. The normal mode oﬀers no privacy guarantee
against the dictator.
2. The anamorphic with normal decryption mode is used when Bob deploys the
scheme as anamorphic (and thus the public key is generated using algorithm
AME.aKG), the ciphertext ct is produced by Alice by running the anamor-
phic encryption algorithm AME.aEnc on input (m0, m1) and the double key
dkey, and the ciphertext is decrypted by the dictator by running the normal
encryption algorithm AME.Dec on input aSK.
More formally, the mode is associated with the triplet andAME ˆm = (aKG1,2,
aEnc2, ˆm, Dec), where, for every ˆm,
– andAME.aEnc2, ˆm(aPK, m) is the algorithm that returns AME.aEnc(aPK,
m, ˆm). Note that the index 2 in AME.aEnc2, ˆm denotes that message ˆm
will be passed as second message to algorithm aEnc.
3. The anamorphic with normal encryption mode is used when Bob deploys
the scheme as anamorphic (and thus the anamorphic public key aPK is used
as public key) and a sender encrypts messages using the normal encryption
algorithm AME.Enc. The ciphertexts produced in this way can be read by
the dictator that has the secret key aSK associated with aPK by running the
normal decryption algorithm AME.Dec.
More formally, the mode is associated with the triplet aneAME = (aKG1,2,
Enc, Dec), where
– aKG1,2(1λ) is the algorithm that runs AME.aKG(1λ), obtaining (aPK, aSK,
dkey), and returns the pair (aPK, aSK). Note that the indices in aKG1,2
denote the components of the triplet generated by aKG that are selected
to appear in the output.
4. The normal mode of operation is associated to the triple of algorithms
nAME = (AME.KG, AME.Enc, AME.Dec) and it corresponds to the scenario
in which the scheme is deployed and used in normal mode; that is, the keys
are generated by running KG, the ciphertexts are constructed by running Enc
and decrypted by running Dec.

48
G. Persiano et al.
4.3
Security Notion
We are now ready to deﬁne the notion of a Secure Receiver-AM scheme. As we
shall see, the security notion posits that no PPT dictator can distinguish whether
the Receiver-AM scheme is in normal mode or in fully anamorphic mode. In other
words, it is indistinguishable whether nAME or fAME ˆm, for message ˆm, is being
used. We ﬁrst make two interesting remarks:
– No explicit security requirement is made for the security of the fully anamor-
phic mode; in other words, it is not explicitly required that Alice’s secret
message m1 is actually secret.
– No explicit security and functional requirement regarding the partial anamor-
phic modes of operation, anamorphic with normal encryption and anamorphic
with normal decryption, is made.
The requirements in both bullets above are clearly desirable: ﬁrst, we would like
Alice’s secret message to be kept secure from the authorities; and we do not
want the authority to be able to distinguish whether the normal mode or one of
the other anamorphic modes is being used. As we shall see, the security notion
of Deﬁnition 2 is suﬃcient for the requirements in the two bullets above. Let
us now proceed more formally and deﬁne the following two games involving a
dictator D.
NormalGameAME,D(λ)
1. Set (PK, SK) ←AME.KG(1λ) and send (PK, SK) to D.
2. For i = 1, . . . , poly(λ):
– D issues query (mi
0, mi
1) and receives ct = AME.Enc(PK, mi
0).
3. Return D’s output.
FullyAGameAME,D(λ)
1. Set (aPK, aSK, dkey) ←AME.aKG(1λ) and send (aPK, aSK) to D.
2. For i = 1, . . . , poly(λ):
– D
issues
query
(mi
0, mi
1)
and
receives
ct
=
AME.aEnc(dkey, mi
0, mi
1).
3. Return D’s output.
Note that in NormalGame the key is normal (that is, output by KG) and the
i-th ciphertext is an encryption of mi
0 computed using Enc. In other words, D
interacts with the scheme in normal mode. On the other hand, in FullyAGame
the key is output by aKG and the i-th ciphertext carries both messages mi
0 and
mi
1. In other words, D with the scheme in fully anamorphic mode. Note that in
both cases, D is given the public key and the associated secret key.
More formally, we denote by pNormalGame
AME,D
(λ) (respectively, pFullyAGame
AME,D
(λ)) the
probability that NormalGameAME,D(λ) (respectively, FullyAGameAME,D(λ)) out-
puts 1 and we introduce the following deﬁnition.

Anamorphic Encryption: Private Communication Against a Dictator
49
Deﬁnition 2. A Receiver-AM scheme AME = (KG, Enc, Dec) with anamorphic
triplet (aKG, aEnc, aDec) is a Secure Receiver-AM scheme if
1. AME is an IND-CPA scheme;
2. for every message ˆm, fAME ˆm is a symmetric encryption scheme;
3. for all PPT dictators D,
pNormalGame
AME,D
(λ) −pFullyAGame
AME,D
(λ)
 ≤negl(λ).
In the rest of this section, we prove that the fully anamorphic mode (used
by Alice and Bob to communicate privately) is an IND-CPA private key encryp-
tion scheme, thus addressing the observation in the ﬁrst bullet above. We start in
Sect. 4.4 by proving that the anamorphic modes with normal encryption is indis-
tinguishable from the fully anamorphic mode and from the normal mode. We then
build on this to prove the security of the fully anamorphic mode in Sect. 4.5. We
will address the observation in the second bullet in the ﬁnal version of the paper.
4.4
Properties of the Anamorphic Mode with Normal Encryption
We start by deﬁning game aneGameAME,A, for a Secure Receiver-AM AME and
a PPT adversary A. As usual, we denote by paneGame
AME,A (λ) the probability that
aneGameAME,A(λ) outputs 1. Game aneGame describes the Anamorphic Mode
with Normal Encryption.
aneGameAME,A(λ)
1. Set (aPK, aSK, dkey) ←AME.aKG(1λ) and send (aPK, aSK) to A.
2. For i = 1, . . . , poly(λ):
– A issues query (mi
0, mi
1) and receives ct = AME.Enc(aPK, mi
0).
3. Return A’s output.
We note that A issues encryption queries (mi
0, mi
1) and that, clearly, A can also
use the keys in its possession to encrypt and decrypt ciphertexts of its choice.
The next lemma proves that aneGame is indistinguishable from NormalGame thus
yielding that the Normal Mode is indistinguishable from the Anamorphic Mode
with Normal Encryption.
Lemma 1. Let AME be a Secure Receiver-AM scheme. Then for all PPT adver-
saries A, we have
pNormalGame
AME,A
(λ) −paneGame
AME,A (λ)
 ≤negl(λ).
Proof. Suppose that there exists an adversary A that distinguishes aneGame
from NormalGame. We will use A to construct a dictator D that distinguishes
NormalGame from FullyAGame, thus violating the security of AME. D receives
the challenge pair of keys (PK⋆, SK⋆) and runs A on input (PK⋆, SK⋆). For each
query (mi
0, mi
1) issued by A, D replies by returning Enc(PK⋆, mi
0). When A stops

50
G. Persiano et al.
and returns b, D outputs b. This terminates the description of D. Note that D
issues no encryption query.
Now observe that if D is playing FullyAGame then (PK⋆, SK⋆) are output
by aKG and thus D is simulating aneGame for A. On the other hand, if D is
playing NormalGame then (PK⋆, SK⋆) are output by KG and thus D is simulating
NormalGame for A. This concludes the proof.
⊓⊔
Transitivity of indistinguishability gives the following lemma.
Lemma 2. Let AME be a Secure Receiver-AM scheme. Then for all PPT adver-
saries A, we have
pFullyAGame
AME,A
(λ) −paneGame
AME,A (λ)
 ≤negl(λ).
4.5
Security of the Fully Anamorphic Mode
We are now ready to prove that the fully anamorphic mode of a Secure Receiver-
AM scheme is IND-CPA even for an adversary that has access to (aPK, aSK) but
not to dkey.
Let us start by formally deﬁning the notion of IND-CPA security of the fully
anamorphic mode of a Secure Receiver-AM scheme. For η = 0, 1, message ˆm,
and stateful PPT adversary A, we deﬁne game IndCPAη
AME,A, ˆm as follows.
IndCPAη
AME,A, ˆm(λ)
1. Set (aPK, aSK, dkey) ←AME.aKG(1λ).
2. (m0
1, m1
1) ←AaEnc(dkey, ˆm,·)(aPK, aSK).
3. Compute ct ←aEnc(dkey, ˆm, mη
1).
4. b ←AaEnc(dkey, ˆm,·)(ct).
We denote by pcpaη
AME,A, ˆm the probability that, in game IndCPAη
AME,A, ˆm, adver-
sary A outputs 1 . We will prove the following theorem.
Theorem 1. If AME is a Secure Receiver-AM scheme, then, for every message
ˆm, fAME ˆm is IND-CPA secure. That is, for all PPT adversaries A and every ˆm
pcpa0
AME,A, ˆm(1λ) −pcpa1
AME,A, ˆm(1λ)
 ≤negl(λ).
To prove the theorem above, we consider, for η = 0, 1, the hybrid game
Hη
AME,A, ˆm, in which all A’s oracle calls to aEnc(dkey, ˆm, ·) in IndCPAη are
replaced with calls to Enc(aPK, ˆm) and the challenge ciphertext ct at Line 3
of IndCPAη is computed as ct ←Enc(aPK, ˆm). We denote by hcpaη
AME,A, ˆm(1λ)
the probability that A outputs 1 in Hη
AME,A, ˆm with security parameter λ.
We have the following lemma whose proof relies on Lemma 2 above.
Lemma 3. If AME is a Secure Receiver-AM then, for η = 0, 1, we have
pcpaη
AME,A, ˆm(1λ) −hcpaη
AME,A, ˆm(1λ)
 ≤negl(λ).

Anamorphic Encryption: Private Communication Against a Dictator
51
Proof. For the sake of contradiction, assume there exists an adversary A that
violates the lemma. We then construct an eﬃcient dictator D that distinguishes
aneGame and FullyAGame thus contradicting Lemma 2.
D receives the pair (aPK, aSK) computed by aKG and has access to an encryp-
tion oracle O(·, ·). D runs A on input (aPK, aSK) and when A issues a query for
m, D returns O( ˆm, m). Similarly, when A outputs the pair of messages (m0
1, m1
1),
D returns O( ˆm, mη
1). At the end, D returns A’s output.
If D is playing game aneGame then O( ˆm, m) returns Enc(aPK, ˆm). Therefore
ct is computed as ct ←Enc(aPK, ˆm). This implies that D simulates Hη
A,AME, ˆm
for A. On the other hand, if D is playing FullyAGame then O( ˆm, m) returns
aEnc(dkey, ˆm, m). Therefore ct is computed as ct ←Enc(aPK, ˆm, mη
1) and D
simulates IndCPAη
A,AME, ˆm(1λ) for A. This concludes the proof of the lemma.
⊓⊔
We are now ready to prove Theorem 1.
Proof of Theorem 1. The theorem follows from Lemma 3 and from the observation
that game Hη
A,AME, ˆm is independent from η and thus
hcpa0
A,AME, ˆm(1λ) = hcpa1
A,AME, ˆm(1λ).
⊓⊔
5
Constructions
In this section we present two constructions of AM schemes. We ﬁrst review the
simple construction for a (log λ)-bit AM scheme discussed in the Introduction
and then, in Sect. 5.2, we present a construction for poly(λ) bits.
5.1
Rejection Sampling
In this section we present our ﬁrst construction 1bit, a simple cryptosys-
tem that gives guarantees even if the secret-key assumption and the sender-
freedom assumption do not hold. It is based on the rejection sampling technique
inspired by the biased-ciphertext attack of [BPR] and it is used also by Horel
et al. [HPRV19]. We review it here just to give a ﬁrst example of a Receiver-
Anamorphic Encryption. We note that the objective of the biased-ciphertext
attack is to subvert an encryption scheme so that the private key can be leaked
without the legitimate owner noticing any abnormal behaviour and it is interest-
ing to note that this technique can be used to setup a dictator setting, as shown
in [BPR], as well as for the opposite of objective, as we show below.
The normal triplet of 1bit is any IND-CPA secure encryption scheme E =
(KG, Enc, Dec) and the anamorphic triplet is deﬁned as follows:
– 1bit.aKG, on input the security parameter 1λ, runs the key generation algo-
rithm KG of E obtaining (PK, SK) and random seed K for PRF F. The anamor-
phic public key is aPK = PK, the anamorphic secret key is aSK = SK and the
double key dkey = (PK, K).

52
G. Persiano et al.
– 1bit.aEnc takes as input the double key dkey = (PK, K) and two messages
m0 and m1 ∈{0, 1}. Algorithm 1bit.aEnc samples ciphertexts ctEnc(PK, m0)
and the anamorphic ciphertext act is set equal to the ﬁrst ct such that
F(K, ct) = m1.
– 1bit.aDec takes as input act and dkey and returns m1 = F(K, act).
Note that 1bit can be extended to l-bit of hidden plaintexts at the cost of push-
ing the expect encryption time to O(2l). Therefore l = O(log λ) hidden bits
per ciphertext will keep encryption polynomial and it gives a bandwidth rate of
O((log λ)/λ). To prove that 1bit is a Secure Anamorphic Encryption we observe
that the anamorphic keys have the same distribution as the normal keys. In addi-
tion the only diﬀerence between the normal ciphertext ct and the anamorphic
ciphertext act is that the former is randomly distributed over the set of cipher-
texts for PK and m0 whereas act is randomly chosen over the set of ciphertexts
for aPK = PK and m0 such that F(K, act) = m1. From the pseudorandomness
of F and the fact that K is randomly chosen and hidden from the adversary A,
we can conclude that 1bit is secure.
Theorem 2. If F is a PRF and E is an IND-CPA Encryption scheme then 1bit
is a Secure Anamorphic Encryption.
We also observe that the sender of 1bit, should she be forced to encrypt a
given message m and reveal the coin tosses used, can still send a secret bit of
her choice to Bob. In other words, the security of 1bit does not rely on the
sender-freedom assumption. In Sect. 6, we will show that this can be achieved by
encryption schemes based on lattice hardness assumptions without the sender
and receiver having to share a key beforehand.
5.2
The Naor-Yung Transform
In this section we describe the Naor-Yung transform [NY90] (see also [Sah99])
that, when applied to an IND-CPA public-key cryptosystem E and a simulation
sound NIZK Π for a speciﬁc polynomial-time relation EqMsgE, gives a CCA
public-key cryptosystem NYE. The formal deﬁnitions of the concepts used in
the construction (IND-CPA, simulation sound NIK) are omitted in this version
and can be found in the extended version.
The polynomial time relation EqMsgE is deﬁned by setting the witness for
instance ((PK0, ct0), (PK1, ct1)) to be the triplet (r0, r1, m) of two coin tosses and
one message m such that
ct0 = Enc(PK0, m; r0) and ct1 = Enc(PK0, m; r1).
The key generation algorithm NYE.KG constructs the public key NYE.PK =
(PK0, PK1, Σ) as consisting of two random and independently chosen public keys
PK0 and PK1 of E and of a random string Σ. The secret key NYE.SK = (SK0)
associated with NYE.PK consists solely of the secret key SK0 associated with PK0.
To encrypt message m, the encryption algorithm NYE.Enc ﬁrst computes
ciphertexts ct0 = Enc(PK0, m; r0) and ct1 = Enc(PK1, m; r1), using random and

Anamorphic Encryption: Private Communication Against a Dictator
53
independent coin tosses r0 and r1. Then, it runs the prover’s algorithm of Π to
produce a proof π that ct0 and ct1 encrypt the same message. More precisely,
the prover’s algorithm of Π is run on input instance ((PK0, ct0), (PK1, ct1)) and
witness (r0, r1, m) using Σ found in NYE.PK as reference string. The ciphertext
PK is ﬁnally set to (ct0, ct1, π).
The decryption algorithm NYE.Dec, on input ciphertext ct = (ct0, ct1, π),
runs the veriﬁer algorithm of Π to check π and, if successful, outputs m obtained
by decrypting ct0 using SK0.
5.3
The NY Transform Gives Receive-AM Encryption
In this section we describe Receiver −AM scheme NY with bandwidth rate
1 that is derived from NYE. The normal triplet of NY consists of the triple
(NYE.KG, NYE.Enc, NYE.Dec) described in the previous section. Next we deﬁne
the anamorphic triplet (NYE.aKG, NYE.aEnc, NYE.aDec).
– The anamorphic key generation algorithm NYE.aKG constructs the anamor-
phic public key NYE.aPK = (PK0, PK1, Σ) as consisting of two random and
independently chosen public keys PK0 and PK1 of E; the string Σ instead is
obtained by running simulator S0(1λ) that returns the pair (Σ, aux). The
secret key aSK = (SK0) is set equal to the secret key associated with PK0
whereas the double key is set equal to dkey = (PK0, PK1, SK1, aux).
– The anamorphic encryption algorithm NYE.aEnc takes as input the dkey and
two messages m0 and m1 and starts constructing the anamorphic cipher-
text by computing ct0 = Enc(PK0, m0) and ct1 = Enc(PK1, m1). The proof
π is constructed by running the simulator S1 on input instance ((PK0, ct0),
(PK1, ct1)) and auxiliary information aux. Note that m0 and m1 are two mes-
sages of the same length and thus the construction has a bandwidth rate of 1
– The anamorphic decryption algorithm NYE.aDec takes an anamorphic cipher-
text act = (ct0, ct1, π) and uses SK1 found in dkey to decrypt ct1 to
obtain m1.
We next prove that the anamorphic encryption scheme NY is secure accord-
ing to Deﬁnition 4; that is, that games NormalGame and FullyAGame are indis-
tinguishable. To do so, we consider the hybrid game aneG and will show that
aneG and NormalGame are indistinguishable by the security properties of the
NIZK and that aneG and FullyAGame are indistinguishable by the security of the
encryption scheme E. This implies that that NormalGame and FullyAGame are
indistinguishable thus satisfying Deﬁnition 4. Let us now proceed more formally
by instantiating game NormalGameNY. We remind the reader that pNormalGame
NY,A
(λ)
denote the probability that adversary A outputs 1 in game NormalGameNY,A.
Next we deﬁne game aneGNY that diﬀers from NormalGameNY in the way in
which the public key and ciphertexts cti, replies to A’s queries, are computed.
Speciﬁcally, the reference string Σ, that is part of the public key, and the
proof πi, that is part of the i-th ciphertext cti, are computed by running the

54
G. Persiano et al.
simulator. We deﬁne paneG
NY,A(λ) to be the probability that adversary A outputs 1
in game aneGNY,A.
NormalGameNY,A(λ)
1. Set (PK0, SK0), (PK1, SK1) ←E.KG(1λ).
2. Set Σ ←{0, 1}λ.
3. Send PK = (PK0, PK1, Σ) and SK = (SK0) to A.
4. For i = 1, . . . , poly(λ):
A issues query (mi
0, mi
1) and receives cti computed as follows:
– Set cti
0 = Enc(PK0, mi
0; ri
0).
– Set cti
1 = Enc(PK1, mi
0; ri
1).
– Set πi ←Prover(((PK0, cti
0), (PK1, cti
1)), (ri
0, ri
1), Σ).
– Set cti = (cti
0, cti
1, πi).
5. A outputs b ∈{0, 1}.
aneGNY,A(λ)
1. Set (PK0, SK0), (PK1, SK1) ←E.KG(1λ).
2. Set (Σ, aux) ←S0(1λ) and dkey = (PK0, PK1, SK1, aux).
3. Send PK = (PK0, PK1, Σ) and SK = (SK0) to A.
4. For i = 1, . . . , poly(λ):
A issues query (mi
0, mi
1) and receives cti computed as follows:
– Set cti
0 = Enc(PK0, mi
0; ri
0).
– Set cti
1 = Enc(PK1, mi
0; ri
1).
– Set πi ←S1(((PK0, cti
0), (PK1, cti
1)), aux).
– Set cti = (cti
0, cti
1, πi).
5. A outputs b ∈{0, 1}.
Lemma 4. If Π = (Prover, Veriﬁer) is a NIZK then for all PPT adversaries A
paneG
NY,A(λ) −pNormalGame
NY,A
(λ)
 < negl(λ).
Proof. Suppose, for the sake of contradiction, that there exists a PPT A for
which
paneG
NY,A(λ) −pNormalGame
NY,A
(λ)
 ≥1/poly(λ).
Then we construct an adversary B that receives a string Σ and has access to an
oracle O that returns proofs and that breaks the zero-knowledge property of Π.
1. B(Σ) sets (PK0, SK0), (PK1, SK1) ←E.KG(1λ).
2. B receives Σ and starts A on input PK = (PK0, PK1, Σ) and SK = (SK0).
3. For i = 1, . . . , poly(λ)
(a) B receives query (mi
0, mi
1) from A.
(b) B sets cti
0 = Enc(PK0, mi
0; ri
0).
(c) B sets cti
1 = Enc(PK1, mi
0; ri
1).

Anamorphic Encryption: Private Communication Against a Dictator
55
(d) B invokes the oracle O on input instance ((PK0, cti
0), (PK1, cti
1)) and wit-
ness (ri
0, r)
1 and receives proof πi.
(e) B returns cti = (cti
0, cti
1, πi) to A.
4. B returns A’s output.
Now observe that if B is playing experiment RealZK, then Σ is randomly
chosen from {0, 1}λ and O = Prover and therefore A’s view is the same as in
NormalGame. On the other hand, if B is playing experiment IdealZK then Σ is
output by S0 and O = Oracle and therefore A’s view is the same as in aneG.
Since we assumed that A distinguishes between NormalGame and aneG then we
can conclude that B breaks the Zero-Knowledge property of Π.
⊓⊔
Next we instantiate the anamorphic security game FullyAGameNY. We remind
the reader that pFullyAGame
NY,A
(λ) denote the probability that adversary A outputs 1
in game FullyAGameNY,A.
FullyAGameNY,A(λ)
1. Set (PK0, SK0), (PK1, SK1) ←E.KG(1λ).
2. Set (Σ, aux) ←S0(1λ) and dkey = (PK0, PK1, SK1, aux).
3. Send PK = (PK0, PK1, Σ) and SK = (SK0) to A.
4. For i = 1, . . . , poly(λ):
A issues query (mi
0, mi
1) and receives cti computed as follows:
– Set cti
0 = Enc(PK0, mi
0; ri
0).
– Set cti
1 = Enc(PK1, mi
1; ri
1).
– Set πi ←S1(((PK0, cti
0), (PK1, cti
1)), aux).
– Set cti = (cti
0, cti
1, πi).
5. A outputs b ∈{0, 1}.
We have the following lemma.
Lemma 5. If E is an IND-CPA secure encryption scheme then for all PPT
adversaries A
paneG
NY,A(λ) −pFullyAGame
NY,A
(λ)
 < negl(λ).
Proof. Suppose, for the sake of contradiction, that there exists a PPT A for
which
paneG
NY,A(λ) −pFullyAGame
NY,A
(λ)
 ≥1/poly(λ).
Then we construct an adversary B that receives a public key PK and has an
encryption oracle O(PK, ·, ·) that returns a ciphertext.
1. B(PK) sets (PK0, SK0) and PK1 = PK.
2. B sets (Σ, aux) ←S0(1λ) and runs A on input PK = (PK0, PK1, Σ) and SK =
(SK0).
3. For i = 1, . . . , poly(λ):
A issues query (mi
0, mi
1) and receives cti computed as follows:
– B sets cti
0 = Enc(PK0, mi
0; ri
0);

56
G. Persiano et al.
– B sets ct1
1 = O(PK, mi
0, mi
1);
– B sets πi ←S1(((PK0, cti
0), (PK1, cti
1)), aux).
– B sets cti = (cti
0, cti
1, πi).
4. B returns A’s output.
Now observe that if B is playing the IndCPA0
E game then O(PK, m0, m1) =
Oracle0(PK, m0, m1) returns an encryption of m0 and therefore A’s view is exactly
as in aneGNY. On the other hand, if B is playing the IndCPA0
E game then
O(PK, m0, m1) = Oracle1(PK, m0, m1) returns an encryption of m1 and therefore
A’s view is exactly as in FullyAGameNY. Since we assumed that A distinguishes
between aneGNY and FullyAGameNY, we can conclude that B breaks the IND-CPA
security of E.
⊓⊔
Bootstrapping the NY Construction. In the description of the anamorphic triplet
for the NY construction we have assumed that the sender and the receiver have a
safe way to exchange dkey. This is a reasonable assumption for most applications
as it is expected that the dictator is able to monitor online communication but
it will be diﬃcult to monitor a physical exchange. We next brieﬂy note how to
use the bootstrap technique of Horel et al. [HPRV19] in combination with the
NY construction. Note that the result scheme does not enjoy the zero-latency
property. Observe that dkey consists of (PK0, PK1, SK1, aux). However PK0 and
PK1 are public and SK1 is not used by the sender and it is only used by the
receiver to decrypt the message. Therefore, it is enough for the two parties to
share the random string used by simulator S0 to generate aux and this can be
achieved by using the two-step bootstrap procedure of Horel et al. [HPRV19].
6
Sender-Anamorphic Encryption
In this section we address the sender-freedom assumption. In the introduction,
and more formally in Sect. 5.1, we presented a simple cryptosystem whose secu-
rity does not rely on the sender-freedom assumption. Speciﬁcally, Alice, fearing
that she might be forced by the authorities to send a fake message, sets up a
private shared key K with Bob that allows to produce, for every adversarially
chosen message m0, a ciphertext ct carrying m0 and the coin tosses used to pro-
duce ct such that, when decrypted with K, ct gives a one-bit message m1 for
Bob to receive privately. The main drawback of this setting is that Alice and
Bob must interact in advance to share the key K and this is not always possible:
Alice might not know of Bob when she ﬁrst sets up her public key or might not
have a way of securely sending K to Bob.
Next, we show that prior communication between Alice and Bob is not nec-
essary and formalize the concept of a Sender-Anamorphic Encryption in this
context. It seems again impossible (seems like decryption is not well deﬁned?).
However, the existence of other receivers and public channels save the day!
Speciﬁcally, when Alice is forced by the authorities to send the forced message
m0 to Carol using Carol’s public key fPK as the forced receiving public key, Alice
might decide to embed a duplicate message m1 in the ciphertext that is revealed

Anamorphic Encryption: Private Communication Against a Dictator
57
when the ciphertext is decrypted with Bob’s key; that is, the secret key associated
with the duplicate public key dPK. We stress again that dPK, Bob’s public key, is
generated by Bob without even knowing that one day he might receive a message
from Alice and no secret is shared between Alice and Bob. To do so, we equip
Alice with a special coin-toss faking algorithm fRandom that on input the forced
public key fPK, the duplicate public key dPK, the forced message m0, and the
duplicate message m1 outputs coin tosses to produce a ciphertext ct that gives
m0 or m1 depending on whether it is decrypted with the secret key associated
with the forced public key or with the secret key associated with the duplicate
public key.
We next present formal deﬁnition for Sender-Anamorphic Encryption. Our
deﬁnition is tailored for the no-shared secret setting that we have described.
Similarly to the receiver side, it could be possible to deﬁne the notion of Sender-
Anamorphic Encryption also for the case in which sender and receiver share a
secret.
Deﬁnition 3. We say that a public-key encryption scheme E = (KG, Enc, Dec)
is a Sender-Anamorphic Encryption scheme (Sender-AM) if there exists a coin-
toss faking algorithm fRandom that, on input the forced public key fPK, and the
forced message m0, and the duplicate public key dPK and the duplicate message
m1, outputs the faking coin tosses R⋆= fRandom(fPK, m0, dPK, m1) such that
– Let ct = Enc(fPK, m0; R⋆) be the ciphertext computed using the faking coin
tosses; then Dec(dSK, ct) = m1, except with negligible probability. The prob-
ability is taken over the coin tosses of fRandom and the coin tosses used to
generate fPK and dPK.
To deﬁne the concept of a Secure Sender-Anamorphic Encryption we intro-
duce two experiments. In both experiments, the adversary receives one public
key fPK and gives polynomially many pairs of forced and duplicate message and
for each pair receives as a reply a ciphertext for the ﬁrst message and the ran-
dom coin tosses used to produce it. In the real experiment, the ciphertext is
produced by Alice that uses random coin tosses output by fRandom with respect
to randomly chosen duplicate key. We require the real experiment to be indis-
tinguishable from the ideal experiment in which there is only one public key and
the forced message is encrypted by using truly random coin tosses.
IdealE,A(λ)
1. Set (fPK, fSK) ←KG(1λ) and send fPK to A.
2. For i = 1, . . . , poly(λ):
– A issues query (mi
0, mi
1) and receives ct = Enc(fPK, mi
0; Ri), where
Ri are randomly chosen coin tosses.
3. A outputs b ∈{0, 1}.

58
G. Persiano et al.
RealfRandom
E,A
(λ)
1. Set (fPK, fSK) ←KG(1λ) and send fPK to A.
2. Set (dPK, dSK) ←KG(1λ).
3. For i = 1, . . . , poly(λ):
– A issues query (mi
0, mi
1) and receives ct = Enc(fPK, mi
0; Ri), where
Ri = fRandom(fPK, mi
0, dPK, mi
1).
4. A outputs b ∈{0, 1}.
We denote by pIdeal
E,A(λ) (respectively, pReal
E,A(λ)) the probability that IdealE,A
(respectively, RealE,A) outputs 1 and present the following deﬁnition.
Deﬁnition 4. A Sender-AM scheme E = (KG, Enc, Dec) with coin-toss faking
algorithm fRandom is a SSender-AM scheme if
1. E is an IND-CPA scheme;
2. for all PPT adversaries A,
pIdeal
E,A(λ) −pReal
E,A(λ)
 ≤negl(λ).
Diﬃculties in Achieving Sender-AM with No Shared Key. Not every standard
encryption can be used as AM with no shared key. In order to embed a secret
message in a ciphertext for public key fPK a valid ciphertext for Bob’s public
key PK, it must be the case that the ciphertext is a valid ciphertext for both
keys. From this point of view, the schemes with redundancy (in particular, with
validity check in the decryption) seem diﬃcult to employ because a ciphertext for
Bob should probably be an invalid ciphertext to Carlos. Almost all known CCA
encryption with redundancy (like the one based on the Naor-Yung transform)
cannot be used in this context.
But the lack of redundancy is not suﬃcient for a scheme to be used as AM
with no shared key. For the schemes that do not have the property of common
randomness, we do not know how to add secret messages to ciphertexts. For
example, in Goldwasser-Micali cryptosystem [GM84], the very ﬁrst semantically
secure encryption, two users generate two independent moduli N0 and N1 and
the secret key of one system is independent of the other one. Therefore, given a
ciphertext ct for N0, without the knowledge of the factorization of N1, it is hard
to decide whether this ciphertext is a quadratic residue modulo N1. As a result,
Alice does not know the underlying plaintext for the ciphertext ct with respect
to Bob’s key. Consequently, this gives evidence that it seems impossible for Alice,
in the no-shared-key model, to embed a secret message to a ciphertext in the
Goldwasser-Micali cryptosystem. We next identify a set of suﬃcient conditions
for AM with no shared key and then we describe some encryption schemes from
the literature that satisfy the conditions.
6.1
Suﬃcient Conditions for Sender-AM with No Shared Key
In this section, we introduce three suﬃcient conditions for a one-bit cryptosystem
E = (KG, Enc, Dec) to be Sender-AM with no shared key.

Anamorphic Encryption: Private Communication Against a Dictator
59
1. Common randomness property. Public key encryption scheme E satisﬁes the
common randomness property if:
for every two public keys PK0 and PK1 output by KG and for every ciphertext
ct produced using public key PK0 and coin tosses R there exists a message m
such that ct = Enc(PK1, m; R); that is, ct is a ciphertext also for public key
PK1 with the same coin tosses R.
For example, the Elgamal encryption-s over a public group satisﬁes this com-
mon randomness property.
2. Message recovery from randomness. A public key encryption scheme E satis-
ﬁes the common randomness property if:
it is possible to recover the plaintext carried by a ciphertext ct from the
randomness R used to produce it and the public key PK.
3. Equal Distribution of Plaintexts. A one-bit public key encryption scheme sat-
isﬁes the property of equal distribution of plaintexts if the following properties
are veriﬁed:
– all public keys share the same ciphertext space;
– for a ciphertext ct in the common ciphertext space and for a random
key pair (PK, SK) as sampled by the key generation algorithm, ct is the
ciphertext of the bit 0 with a probability 1
2.
We now show that, if a one-bit public key encryption satisﬁes the above three
properties, it is a Sender-AM with no shared key.
Theorem 3. If an IND-CPA secure one-bit public key encryption scheme sat-
isﬁes the three properties of common randomness, message recovery from ran-
domness, and equal distribution of plaintexts, then it is a Sender-AM scheme
with no shared key.
Proof. Let E
= (KG, Enc, Dec) be an IND-CPA secure scheme and deﬁne
fRandom(fPK, m0, dPK, m1) as follows:
1. Randomly choose coin tosses R;
2. Compute ct = Enc(fPK, m0; R);
3. By the property of common randomness, ct is also a ciphertext according to
dPK and it is computed using the same coin tosses R.
4. By the property of message recovery from randomness, message m′ carried
by ct w.r.t. to dPK can be computed; that is Enc(dPK, m′; R) is equal to ct.
5. If m′ = m1 then return (ct, R) and halt; otherwise, go back to Step 1.
The fRandom deﬁned above satisﬁes Deﬁnition 3. Indeed, the correctness is
directly veriﬁed. Now observe that the coin tosses R selected at step 1 of fRandom
have probability 1/2 of being the output in the last step, over the choices of ran-
dom dPK, by the equal distribution of plaintexts. As dPK is uniformly distributed
(and unknown) to the adversary, the adversary cannot distinguish the outputted
coin tosses with a real randomness.
⊓⊔

60
G. Persiano et al.
6.2
Constructions Based on LWE Encryption Schemes
Theorem 4. The LWE Encryption and the Dual LWE Encryption are each a
Sender-AM scheme with no shared key.
Proof. A detailed exposition of LWE Encryption, Dual LWE Encryption can be
found in [Reg05,GPV08]. We recall here a quick description of these schemes
and their properties assuring that they are AM schemes with no shared key.
We ﬁrst recall the LWE encryption [Reg05] in Fig. 2. It is parameterized by
some r ≤ω(√log m)), which speciﬁes the discrete Gaussian distribution DZm,r
over the integer lattice Zm from which the secret keys are chosen.
Setup: The system is characterized by m, q and a probability distribution
χ on Zn
q . All users share a common matrix A ∈Znm
q
chosen uniformly
at random, which is the index of the function fA(e) = Ae mod q.
Key Generation:
– Choose s ∈Zn
q uniformly at random. The private key is s.
– Choose error vector e ←DZm,r.The public key consists of (A, b =
fA(s) + e)
Encryption: The encryption of a bit x ∈{0, 1} is done by choosing
a random subset S of [m] and then deﬁning the ciphertext of x as
(
i∈S ai, x q
2 +
i∈S bi)
Decryption: The decryption of (a, b) is 0 if b
a, s is closer to 0 than to
q
2
modulo q, and 1 otherwise.
Fig. 2. LWE public-key encryption
– From the ciphertext (a, b), we see that, for any user, the implicit random
input is the same. This satisﬁes the property of common randomness.
– From the random input and the public-key, one can get the plaintext. This
satisﬁes the property of message recovery from randomness.
– For a ciphertext (a, b), with a public key that is returned from the key gen-
eration, the vector b is indistinguishable from a randomly chosen vector in
Zn
q , the underlying plaintext is thus 0 with probability 1
2. This satisﬁes the
property of equal distribution of plaintexts.
We now recall the Dual LWE encryption [GPV08] in Fig. 3. It is parameter-
ized by two integers m, q and a probability distribution χ on Zq. We show that
it supports AM in the similar way as in the case of the LWE encryption:
– From the ciphertext (p, c), we see that, for any user, the implicit random
input is the same. This gives the property of common randomness.
– From the random input and the public-key, one can get the plaintext. This
satisﬁes the property of message recovery from randomness.

Anamorphic Encryption: Private Communication Against a Dictator
61
– For a ciphertext (p, c), with a public key that is returned from the key gen-
eration, the vector uT s is indistinguishable from a randomly chosen vector in
Zq, the underlying plaintext is thus 0 with probability 1
2. This satisﬁes the
property of equal distribution of plaintexts.
⊓⊔
Setup: all users share a common matrix A ∈Znm
q
chosen uniformly at
random, which is the index of the function fA(e) = Ae mod q.
Key Generation:
– Choose an error vector e ←DZm,r which is the secret key.
– The public key is the syndrome u = fA(e).
Encryption: to encrypt a bit b ∈{0, 1}, choose s ∈Zn
q uniformly and
p = AT s + x ∈Zm
q , where x ∈χm. Output the ciphertext (p; c =
uT s + x + b
q
2 ) ∈Zm
q × Zq, where x ←χ.
Decryption: Compute z = c −eT p ∈Zq. Output 0 if z is closer to 0 than
to
q
2
mod q, otherwise output 1.
Fig. 3. Dual LWE public-key encryption
7
Conclusion
This is the ﬁrst and most likely not the last work on Anamorphic Encryption as
our framework does not cover all the schemes. In this ﬁrst work, we have shown
the anamorphic property for some standard encryptions with speciﬁc properties.
This does not mean that it is impossible for schemes without these properties.
It is also reasonable to wonder what would happen if the dictator can ban these
schemes from being used. However, in this way, the dictator will always need to
run after our research and this will force the dictator to assure that his children
will get a PhD in Cryptography.
Of course, we leave it to others to determine, based on policy, law, and other
societal aspects beyond pure technology, whether our results are aiming toward
being the ﬁnal nail in the coﬃn of governments control of the use of strong
cryptographic systems. Our meta-conjecture (and induced policy implication)
is that for any standard scheme, there is a technical demonstration (perhaps
employing Anamorphism+stego+klepto) of the futility of the dictator’s demands.
Acknowledgments. We thank all anonymous reviewers for insightful feedback.
Duong Hieu Phan was partially supported by the ANR ALAMBIC (ANR16-CE39-
0006). Part of this work was done while Giuseppe Persiano was visiting Google NY.
References
[AAB+97] Abelson, H., et al.: The risks of key recovery, key escrow, and trusted third-
party encryption (1997). https://doi.org/10.7916/D8GM8F2W

62
G. Persiano et al.
[AAB+15] Abelson, H., et al.: Keys under doormats: mandating insecurity by requiring
government access to all data and communications (2015). https://doi.org/
10.7916/D8H41R9K
[ACD19] Alwen, J., Coretti, S., Dodis, Y.: The double ratchet: security notions,
proofs, and modularization for the signal protocol. In: Ishai, Y., Rijmen,
V. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2019. LNCS, vol. 11476, pp. 129–158. Springer,
Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-17653-2 5
[Bla94] Blaze, M.: Protocol failure in the escrowed encryption standard. In: CCS
1994, pp. 59–67 (1994)
[BPR] Bellare, M., Paterson, K.G., Rogaway, P.: Security of symmetric encryption
against mass surveillance. In: Garay, J.A., Gennaro, R. (eds.) CRYPTO
2014. LNCS, vol. 8616, pp. 1–19. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-662-44371-2 1
[CDNO97] Canetti, R., Dwork, C., Naor, M., Ostrovsky, R.: Deniable encryption. In:
Kaliski, B.S. (ed.) CRYPTO 1997. LNCS, vol. 1294, pp. 90–104. Springer,
Heidelberg (1997). https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0052229
[Cli] Statement by the Press Secretary, The White House, 16 April 1993.
Reprinted in David Banisar (ed.) Cryptography and Privacy Sourcebook
(1994)
[CNE+14] Checkoway, S., et al.: On the practical exploitability of dual EC in TLS
implementations. In: USENIX Security Symposium, pp. 319–335 (2014)
[Dak96] Dakoﬀ, H.S.: The clipper chip proposal: deciphering the unfounded fears
that are wrongfully derailing its implementation. J. Marshall L. Rev. 29,
475 (1996)
[DH76] Diﬃe, W., Hellman, M.E.: New directions in cryptography. IEEE Trans.
Inf. Theory 22, 644–654 (1976)
[DL] Diﬃe, W., Landau, S.: Privacy on the Line. The Politics of Wiretapping
and Encryption
[Fei73] Feistel, H.: Cryptography and computer privacy. Sci. Am. 228(5), 15–23
(1973)
[FY93] Frankel, Y., Yung, M.: Escrow encryption systems visited: attacks, analysis
and designs. In: Coppersmith, D. (ed.) CRYPTO 1995. LNCS, vol. 963,
pp. 222–235. Springer, Heidelberg (1995). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-
44750-4 18
[GKVL] Green, M., Kaptchuk, G., Van Laer, G.: Abuse resistant law enforcement
access systems. In: Canteaut, A., Standaert, F.-X. (eds.) EUROCRYPT
2021. LNCS, vol. 12698, pp. 553–583. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-030-77883-5 19
[GM84] Goldwasser, S., Micali, S.: Probabilistic encryption. J. Comput. Syst. Sci.
2, 270–299 (1984)
[GMW87] Goldreich, O., Micali, S., Wigderson, A.: How to play any mental game.
In: STOC 1987, pp. 218–229 (1987)
[GPV08] Gentry, C., Peikert, C., Vaikuntanathan, V.: Trapdoors for hard lattices
and new cryptographic constructions. In: STOC 2008, pp. 197–206 (2008)
[HPRV19] Horel, T., Park, S., Richelson, S., Vaikuntanathan, V.: How to subvert
backdoored encryption: Security against adversaries that decrypt all cipher-
texts. In: 10th ITCS, pp. 1–20 (2019)
[Ker83] Kerckhoﬀs, A.: La Cryptographie Militaire. Journal des sciences militaires
(1883)

Anamorphic Encryption: Private Communication Against a Dictator
63
[Mic] Micali, S.: Fair public-key cryptosystems. In: Brickell, E.F. (ed.) CRYPTO
1992. LNCS, vol. 740, pp. 113–138. Springer, Heidelberg (1993). https://
doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48071-4 9
[MP16] Marlinspike, M., Perrin, T.: The double ratchet algorithm, Novem-
ber 2016. https://whispersystems.org/docs/speciﬁcations/doubleratchet/
doubleratchet.pdf
[NY90] Naor, M., Yung, M.: Public-key cryptosystems provably secure against cho-
sen ciphertext attacks. In: STOC 1990, pp. 427–437 (1990)
[Reg05] Regev, O.: On lattices, learning with errors, random linear codes, and cryp-
tography. In: STOC 2005, pp. 84–93 (2005)
[Riv] Rivest, R.L.: Chaﬃng and Winnowing: Conﬁdentiality without Encryption.
MIT Lab for Computer Science, 18 March 1998. http://people.csail.mit.
edu/rivest/chaﬃng-980701.txt. Accessed 1 July 1998
[Rog15] Rogaway, P.: The Moral Character of Cryptographic Work. ePrint
2015/1162 (2015). https://ia.cr/2015/1162
[RSA78] Rivest, R.L., Shamir, A., Adleman, L.: A method for obtaining digital
signatures and public-key cryptosystems. Commun. ACM 21 (1978)
[RTYZ] Russell, A., Tang, Q., Yung, M., Zhou, H.-S.: Cliptography: clipping the
power of kleptographic attacks. In: Cheon, J.H., Takagi, T. (eds.) ASI-
ACRYPT 2016. LNCS, vol. 10032, pp. 34–64. Springer, Heidelberg (2016).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53890-6 2
[RTYZ17] Russell, A., Tang, Q., Yung, M., Zhou, H.-S.: Generic semantic security
against a kleptographic adversary. In: CCS 2017, pp. 907–922 (2017)
[Sah99] Sahai, A.: Non-malleable non-interactive zero knowledge and adaptive
chosen-ciphertext security. In: FOCS 1999, p. 543 (1999)
[Sha49] Shannon, C.E.: Communication theory of secrecy systems. Bell Syst. Tech.
J. 28(4), 656–715 (1949)
[vAH04] von Ahn, L., Hopper, N.J.: Public-key steganography. In: Cachin, C.,
Camenisch, J.L. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2004. LNCS, vol. 3027, pp. 323–341.
Springer,
Heidelberg
(2004).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-24676-
3 20
[Wha20] WhatsApp. WhatsApp Encryption Overview, October 2020
[Yao86] Yao, A.C.-C.: How to generate and exchange secrets. In: FOCS 1986, pp.
162–167 (1986)
[YYa] Young, A., Yung, M.: The dark side of “Black-Box” cryptography or: should
we trust capstone? In: Koblitz, N. (ed.) CRYPTO 1996. LNCS, vol. 1109,
pp. 89–103. Springer, Heidelberg (1996). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-
68697-5 8
[YYb] Young, A., Yung, M.: The prevalence of kleptographic attacks on discrete-
log based cryptosystems. In: Kaliski, B.S. (ed.) CRYPTO 1997. LNCS, vol.
1294, pp. 264–276. Springer, Heidelberg (1997). https://doi.org/10.1007/
BFb0052241
[YY97] Young, A., Yung, M.: Kleptography: using cryptography against cryptog-
raphy. In: Fumy, W. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 1997. LNCS, vol. 1233, pp. 62–74.
Springer, Heidelberg (1997). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-69053-0 6
[YY98] Young, A., Yung, M.: Auto-recoverable auto-certiﬁable cryptosystems. In:
Nyberg, K. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 1998. LNCS, vol. 1403, pp. 17–31. Springer,
Heidelberg (1998). https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0054114

