Privacy-Preserving Blueprints
Markulf Kohlweiss1(B), Anna Lysyanskaya2, and An Nguyen2
1 University of Edinburgh and Input Output, Edinburgh, UK
markulf.kohlweiss@ed.ac.uk
2 Brown University, Providence, USA
{anna lysyanskaya,an q nguyen}@brown.edu
Abstract. If everyone were to use anonymous credentials for all access
control needs, it would be impossible to trace wrongdoers, by design. This
would make legitimate controls, such as tracing illicit trade and terror
suspects, impossible to carry out. Here, we propose a privacy-preserving
blueprint capability that allows an auditor to publish an encoding pkA
of the function f(x, ·) for a publicly known function f and a secret input
x. For example, x may be a secret watchlist, and f(x, y) may return y if
y ∈x. On input her data y and the auditor’s pkA, a user can compute an
escrow Z such that anyone can verify that Z was computed correctly from
the user’s credential attributes, and moreover, the auditor can recover
f(x, y) from Z. Our contributions are:
– We deﬁne secure f-blueprint systems; our deﬁnition is designed to
provide a modular extension to anonymous credential systems.
– We show that secure f-blueprint systems can be constructed for all
functions f from fully homomorphic encryption and NIZK proof sys-
tems. This result is of theoretical interest but is not eﬃcient enough
for practical use.
– We realize an optimal blueprint system under the DDH assumption
in the random-oracle model for the watchlist function.
1
Introduction
Cryptography oﬀers powerful answers on how to strike a balance between privacy
and accountability. The study of anonymous credentials [2,17–19,27,54,55] has
given us general practical tools that make it possible to obtain and prove posses-
sion of cryptographic credentials without revealing any additional information.
In other words, users can obtain credentials without revealing who they are, and
then prove possession of credentials in a way that is unlinkable to the session
where these credentials were obtained and to other sessions in which they were
shown. Anonymous credentials can be shown a limited number of times (com-
pact e-cash) [15], or at a limited rate total or per veriﬁer [14,16]. Anonymous
credentials are compatible with identity escrow [3,51], where and appropriate
trusted authority can establish the identity of the user when needed.
In this paper, we extend the state-of-the-art on anonymous credentials by
adding a new desirable feature: that of a privacy-preserving blueprint capability:
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2023
C. Hazay and M. Stam (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2023, LNCS 14005, pp. 594–625, 2023.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-30617-4_20

Privacy-Preserving Blueprints
595
even a malicious authority cannot learn anything about a user other than what’s
revealed by comparing the blueprinted data with the user’s data.
Consider anonymous e-cash with a secret watchlist as a motivating applica-
tion. In anonymous e-cash [15,25,26,28], we have a Bank that issues e-coins (cre-
dentials), Users who withdraw and spend them, and Vendors (or Veriﬁers) that
verify e-coins and accept them as payment in exchange for goods and services.
Some small number of users are suspected of ﬁnancial crimes, and, unbeknownst
to them, a judge has placed them on a watchlist. We need a mechanism that
allows an auditor to trace the transactions of these watchlisted users without
violating the privacy of any other users, and also while keeping the contents of
the watchlist conﬁdential from everyone.
A High-Level Deﬁnition of a Privacy-Preserving Blueprint. We have three types
of participants: the users, the veriﬁers, and the de-anonymization auditor. On
input x (for example, a watchlist), the auditor outputs a blueprint pkA that the
users and veriﬁers will need.
Next, the user and the veriﬁer engage in an anonymous transaction; we don’t
actually care what else happens in this transaction; the user might be proving to
the veriﬁer that they are authorized, or it may be an e-cash transaction. What
we do care about is that, as a by-product of this transaction, the user and the
veriﬁer have agreed on a cryptographic commitment C such that (1) the user
is in possession of the opening of C; and (2) the transaction that just occurred
guarantees that the opening of C contains user data y that is relevant for the
auditor’s needs. For example, imagine that x is a watchlist consisting of names of
individuals of interest, and y contains a user’s name; then this user is of interest
to the auditor if y ∈x.
To enhance this anonymous transaction with privacy-preserving blueprint
capability, the user runs the algorithm Escrow to compute a value Z that is an
escrow of the opening of the commitment C; from Z, the auditor will be able to
recover the information relevant to him, and no other information about the user.
Speciﬁcally, in the watchlist scenario, the auditor will recover y if y ∈x, but will
learn nothing about the user if y /∈x. More generally, in an f-blueprint scheme,
the auditor will recover f(x, y) and no additional information. The veriﬁer’s job
is to verify the escrow Z against C using VerEscrow and only let the transaction
go through if, indeed, it veriﬁes.
It is important that even a malicious auditor cannot create a blueprint that
corresponds to an unauthorized input x. To capture this, we also require that
there is a publicly available cryptographic commitment CA. Outside of our pro-
tocol, we expect a mechanism for arriving at an acceptable (but secret) input x
and the commitment CA to x. For example, a judge may publish a commitment
to a secret watchlist, and privately reveal the opening to the auditor; or several
authorities may be responsible for diﬀerent components of a watchlist and the
auditor aggregates them together in a publicly veriﬁable fashion; or another dis-
tributed protocol can be agreed upon for arriving at the commitment CA such
that its opening (i.e., x) is known to the auditor. To ensure that only such an
authorized secret input x is blueprinted, a secure blueprint scheme must include

596
M. Kohlweiss et al.
an algorithm VerPK that veriﬁes that pkA indeed corresponds to the value to
which CA is a commitment.
Our security deﬁnition mandates that the following properties hold: (1)
correctness, so that honestly created blueprints and escrows pass VerPK and
VerEscrow, respectively, and the escrow Z correctly decrypts; (2) soundness of
VerEscrow that ensures that if, for a commitment C, escrow Z is accepted, then
it correctly decrypts to f(x, y) where x is the opening of CA and y is the open-
ing of C; (3) blueprint hiding, i.e., the blueprint pkA does not reveal anything
about x other than what the adversary can learn by forming valid escrows and
submitting them for decryption; (4) privacy against a dishonest auditor that
ensures that even if the auditor is malicious, an honest user’s escrow contains no
information beyond f(x, y), where x is the opening of CA and y is the opening of
C; and ﬁnally (5) privacy with an honest auditor that ensures that an adversary
who does not control the auditor learns nothing from the escrows. We give a
precise formal deﬁnition of an f-blueprint scheme in Sect. 3.
Our Results. Our ﬁrst result is a blueprint scheme speciﬁcally for watchlists;
more precisely, it is an f-blueprint scheme for
f(x, y) =
!
y
if y = y1∥y2 and y2 ∈x
⊥
otherwise
where y1 denotes O(log λ) most signiﬁcant bits of y. This ﬁrst scheme is secure in
the random-oracle model under the decisional Diﬃe-Hellman assumption. The
size of pkA is optimal at O(λn) where λ is the security parameter, which is linear
in the number of bits needed to represent a group element; and the watchlist x
consists of n elements of Zq, where q (log q = Θ(λ)) is the order of the group.
The size of the escrow Z is also O(λn).
Our second result is an f-blueprint scheme for any f from fully homomorphic
encryption (FHE) and non-interactive zero-knowledge proofs of knowledge. In
the full version of this paper [52], we also show how to obtain an f-blueprint
scheme for any f from non-interactive secure computation (NISC) [50].
Technical Roadmap. We obtain the results above via the same general method:
by ﬁrst deﬁning (Sect. 4) and then realizing (Sects. 6 and 7) a homomorphic-
enough cryptosystem (HEC) for the function f. We can think of a homomorphic-
enough cryptosystem as a protocol between Alice and Bob that works as follows:
ﬁrst, Alice uses the HECenc algorithm to encode her input x into a value X,
and she also obtains a decryption key d for future use; next, Bob uses HECeval
to compute an encryption Z of z = f(x, y) from Alice’s encoding X and his
input y. Finally, Alice runs HECdec to recover z from Z. To be useful for
our application, an HEC scheme must be correct even when the inputs to the
algorithms are chosen maliciously, and it also must ensure that X hides x, and
that X and Z together hide the inputs x and y. Additionally, it must allow for
an algorithm HECdirect that computes an encryption Z of z directly from
X and z = f(x, y), such that its output is indistinguishable from the output of
HECeval, even if Alice is malicious.

Privacy-Preserving Blueprints
597
A HEC combined with an appropriate non-interactive zero-knowledge
(NIZK) proof system gives a generic construction of an f-blueprint:. The audi-
tor obtains (X, d) ←HECenc(x), and an NIZK proof πA that X was computed
correctly in a way that corresponds to the opening of CA; he sets the blueprint
as pkA = (X, πA). Verifying this blueprint amounts to verifying πA. To compute
the escrow Z, the user obtains Z′ ←HECeval(X, y) and then a proof πZ that
Z′ was computed correctly from X and the opening of C; then set Z = (Z′, πZ).
Verifying the escrow amounts to verifying πZ. Finally, in order to recover f(x, y)
from the escrow Z, the auditor uses the decryption key d to run HECdec(d, Z′).
Given this roadmap, our theoretical construction that works for any f is rel-
atively straightforward: we show that HEC can be realized from circuit-private
fully homomorphic encryption [35,46,60] which, in turn, can be realized from
regular fully homomorphic encryption [9,10,46,47]. The circuit-privacy guaran-
tee ensures that Z hides Bob’s input y from a malicious Alice. Alternatively,
as we explore in the full version of this paper [52], it can be realized for any f
from a related primitive of non-interactive secure computation (NISC) [50]. Since
here we don’t aim for eﬃciency, general (ineﬃcient) simulation-extractable NIZK
PoK can be used for the proofs. This instantiation of our generic construction
is presented in Sect. 7.
Our practical construction for watchlists under the decisional Diﬃe-Hellman
assumption is not as straightforward: ﬁrst, it requires that we construct a prac-
tical homomorphic enough cryptosystem based on DDH, and next we need eﬃ-
cient non-interactive zero-knowledge proof systems for computing and verifying
πA and πZ. Let us give a brief overview.
Our HEC construction uses the ElGamal cryptosystem [36,65] as a building
block. Suppose as part of setup we are given a group G of order q in which the
decisional Diﬃe-Hellman assumption holds. Let g be a generator of G. In order
to encode her input x = (a1, . . . , an), Alice’s HECenc algorithm ﬁrst generates
an ElGamal key pair (pk, sk). She then picks a random s ←Z∗
q and computes
the coeﬃcients c0, . . . , cn of the n-degree polynomial p(x) = s "(x −ai) for
which a1, . . . , an are the n zeroes. The encoding X are ElGamal encryptions
C0, . . . , Cn of the values gc0, · · · , gcn under the ElGamal public key pk, so the
output of HECenc is X = (C0, . . . , Cn, pk), and d = sk.
Bob’s algorithm HECeval computes Z as follows: ﬁrst, it parses y = y1∥y2
(recall that y1 denotes the ﬁrst O(log λ) bits of y). Then Bob obtains an ElGa-
mal encryption E of gp(y2) from the encrypted coeﬃcients C0, . . . , Cn: since the
ElGamal cryptosystem is multiplicatively homomorphic, E = C0Cy2
1 Cy2
2
2 . . . Cyn
2
n
is the desired ciphertext (for an appropriate multiplication operation on ElGa-
mal ciphertexts). Next, let F be an encryption of gy; ﬁnally, Bob obtains the
ciphertext Z = FEr, i.e., Bob uses E to mask the encryption of gy; if E is an
encryption of 0, the mask won’t work and Z will decrypt to gy.
This is reminiscent of the private set intersection construction of Freedman,
Nissim and Pinkas [42], but with a subtle diﬀerence: the polynomial encoded
as part of X has an additional random coeﬃcient, s. Thus, even if Bob knows
Alice’s entire input x, he still does not know p(a) for a /∈x. This ensures that in

598
M. Kohlweiss et al.
the event that f(x, y) = ⊥, Bob cannot set r in such a way that Z will decrypt
to a value of his choice; instead, it will decrypt to a random value.
Finally, HECdec(d, Z) decrypts the ElGamal ciphertext Z to some group
element u ∈G, and for each ai ∈x, and for all possible values for y1, checks
whether gy1∥ai = u. If it ﬁnds such a pair, it outputs it; else, it outputs ⊥.
Plugging in this HEC scheme in our generic construction gives us an eﬃ-
cient blueprint scheme for watchlists as long as we can also ﬁnd eﬃcient instan-
tiations of the NIZK proof systems for computing the proofs πA and πZ. As
was already well-known [23,44,58], we can represent the statement that a given
ElGamal ciphertext encrypts ga such that a given Pedersen [62] commitment
C is a commitment to a as a statement about equality of discrete logarithm
representations; moreover, we can also represent statements about polynomial
relationships between committed values (i.e., that Cp is a commitment to the
value p(a1, . . . , aℓ) where p is a polynomial, and commitments C1, . . . , Cℓare to
values a1, . . . , aℓ) as statements about equality of representations. Using this fact,
as well as the fact that eﬃcient NIZK proofs of knowledge for equality of discrete
logarithm representations in the random-oracle model are known [31,43,44],
we can also eﬃciently instantiate the NIZK proof system in the random-oracle
model.
A subtlety in using these random-oracle-based proof systems, however, is that
generally such proof systems’ knowledge extractors require black-box access to
the adversary and involve rewinding it. In situations where the adversary expects
to also issue queries to its challenger, and a security experiment or reduction
must extract the adversary’s witness in order to answer them, using such proof
systems runs into the nested rewinding problem. One could opt to use straight-
line extractable proofs instead (in such proofs, the knowledge extractor does not
need to rewind the adversary); however, known techniques to achieve straight-
line extraction come either at a ω(log λ) multiplicative cost [13,39] or require
cumbersome setup assumptions [21].
A more eﬃcient technique is to have a common random string (CRS) and
interpret it as an ElGamal public key. There is an eﬃcient Σ-protocol [31] for
proving that the contents of two ElGamal ciphertexts under two diﬀerent keys are
equal; it can be converted into a non-interactive zero-knowledge proof using the
Fiat-Shamir heuristic [38] in the random-oracle model. If one of these public keys
comes from the CRS, then the soundness of the proof system allows for straight-
line extraction that uses the corresponding secret key as the extraction trapdoor.
Here we give a formalization of this previously used (e.g. [20]) approach.
Speciﬁcally, we formulate a new ﬂavor of NIZK proof of knowledge systems:
black-box extractability with partial straight-line (BB-PSL) extraction, and give
an eﬃcient NIZK BB-PLS PoK proof system for equality of discrete-logarithm
representations. This proof system allows straight-line extraction (i.e. extraction
from the proof itself, without rewinding the adversary) of a function of the wit-
ness (for example, instead of extracting w the extractor computes gw); this gives
the security experiment enough information to proceed. Although this approach
is somewhat folklore, we believe our rigorous formulation and instantiation in
the random-oracle model (Sect. 2.2) may be of independent interest.

Privacy-Preserving Blueprints
599
How Our Scheme Builds on the Anonymous Credentials Literature. Note that,
as stated so far, neither the deﬁnitions nor the schemes concern themselves with
credentials. Instead, the user and the veriﬁer agree on a commitment C to the
user’s relevant attribute y. Out of band, the user may have already convinced the
veriﬁer that she has a credential from some third-party organization attesting
that y is meaningful. For example, if y is the user’s name, then the third-party
organization might be the passport bureau. Indeed, this is how anonymous cre-
dentials work in general [2,18,19,54], and therefore this modeling of the problem
allows us to add this feature to anonymous credentials in a modular way. More-
over, our ElGamal-based scheme is compatible with literature on anonymous
credentials [2,18,19,54] and compact e-cash and variants [14–16] because Ped-
ersen commitments are used everywhere.
Related Work. Group signatures and identity escrow schemes [1,5,22,29,51]
allow users to issue signatures anonymously on behalf of a group such that an
anonymity-revoking trustee can discover the identity of the signer. The diﬀerence
between this scenario and what we are doing here is that in group signatures
the signer’s identity is always recoverable by the trustee, while here it is only
recoverable if it matches the watchlist.
Group signatures with message-dependent opening [63] and bifurcated [53],
multimodal and related signatures [34,41,59] allow a tracing authority to recover
a function of the user’s private information that’s known to the user at the time of
group-signing or credential showing. In contrast, in a secure blueprinting scheme,
the user knows only one of two inputs to this function.
Another related line of work speciﬁcally for watchlists is private set inter-
section (PSI) [24,42]. Although techniques from PSI are helpful here, in general
PSI is an interactive two-party protocol, while here, the Auditor who knows the
watchlist x is oﬄine at the time when the user is forming the escrow. Private
searching on streaming data [61] allows an untrusted proxy to process streaming
data using encrypted keywords. The resulting encrypted data does not come
with any assurance that it was correct. In contrast, in our scenario, the veriﬁer
and the auditor can both verify that Z was computed correctly.
A series of recent papers explored accountable law enforcement access sys-
tem [40,48,49,64]. None of them, however, consider integration with anonymous
credential systems for privacy-preserving authentication. Break-glass encryption
by Scafuro [64] realizes a mechanism in which the auditor can decrypt Alice’s
ciphertexts simply be reliably revealing that he did so, i.e., that he broke the
glass. The choice of which messages are to be leaked can happen even after Alice’s
public key is generated. Scafuro achieves this in certain strong models, such as
those of hardware tokens and existence of a blockchain. In abuse-resistant law
enforcement access systems (ARLEAS) [49], a law enforcement agency with a
valid warrant can secretly place a user Alice under surveillance. They will be
able to decrypt messages that are encrypted to Alice’s public key, but not those
encrypted to other users for whom surveillance has not been authorized. More-
over, ARLEAS make it possible for an email server to enforce compliance by ver-
ifying that an encrypted message indeed allows lawful access by law enforcement;

600
M. Kohlweiss et al.
and (in a nutshell) all participants can verify the validity of all warrants even
though they are unable to tell who is under surveillance. In our view, ARLEAS
follows principles that are similar to ours: ﬁnding a way to reconcile the need to
monitor illegal activity with privacy needs of the law-abiding public. However,
since ARLEAS concerns itself with encryption, while we worry about privacy-
preserving authentication, our technical contributions are somewhat orthogonal.
2
Preliminaries
The ElGamal Cryptosystem and Its Security. Let KGen be an algorithm that, on
input a description of a group G with generator g of prime order q in which the
discrete-logarithm problem is hard for PPT (in the security parameter 1λ) adver-
saries, outputs (1) a public key pk consisting of an element y ←$ G; and (2) a
secret key sk = s such that gs = y. The encryption algorithm Enc encrypts a mes-
sage m ∈G by sampling r ←$ Zq and outputting the ciphertext c = (gr, myr).
The decryption algorithm Dec decrypts c = (a, b) ∈G2 by computing ba−s. We
use c
r←Enc(pk, m) and Enc(pk, m; r) to make randomness explicit.
ElGamal is semantically secure under the decisional Diﬃe-Hellman assump-
tion [66]. In this paper, we use the equivalent notion of security against chosen
plaintext attack (IND−CPA) formulated by Boneh and Shoup [7]. In their secu-
rity game, the adversary continuously interacts with either the 0-encryption
oracle that always encrypts the ﬁrst of the two messages the adversary sends it,
or with the 1-encryption oracle that always encrypts the second message. Their
security deﬁnition is more convenient for us because it allows us to avoid an
additional hybrid argument.
Let ⊕: G2 × G2 →G2 be the operator for the homomorphic composition
of two ElGamal ciphertexts c1 = (a1, b1) ∈G2, c2 = (a2, b2) ∈G2 such that:
c1 ⊕c2 := (a1 · a2, b1 · b2) where · is the group operator of G. We also write ca as
shorthand for repeated operation of c with itself a times.
Deﬁnition 1 (Statistically hiding non-interactive commitment). A pair
of algorithms (CSetup, Commit) constitute a statistically hiding non-interactive
commitment scheme for message space Mcpar and randomness space Rcpar if
they satisfy (1) statistical hiding, i.e., for any cpar output by CSetup(1λ), for
any m0, m1 ∈Mcpar, the distributions D(cpar, m0) and D(cpar, m1) are statis-
tically close, where D(cpar, m) = {r ←Rcpar : Commitcpar(m; r)}; and (2) com-
putational binding, i.e. for any PPT adversary A, there exists a negligible ν such
that Pr[cpar ←CSetup(1λ); (m0, r0, m1, r1) ←A(cpar) : Commitcpar(m0; r0) =
Commitcpar(m1; r1) ∧m0 ̸= m1] = ν(λ)
We will use the Pedersen commitment scheme which employs a cyclic group
G of prime order q. Let g, h1, h2, . . . , hn be generators of G and m1, m2, . . . , mn ∈
Zn
q , then Commith1,h2,...,hn,g(m1, m2, . . . , mn) samples r ←$ Zq and computes
gr "n
i=1 hmi
i . This scheme is binding under the discrete logarithm assumption
in G. We write Commith1,...,hn,g(m1, . . . , mn; r) to make randomness explicit.

Privacy-Preserving Blueprints
601
2.1
Non-interactive Zero Knowledge
Let R be a polynomial-time veriﬁable binary relation. For a pair (x, w) ∈R, we
refer to x as the statement and w as the witness. Let L = {x | ∃w : (x, w) ∈R}.
A non-interactive proof system for R consists of a prover algorithm P and
veriﬁer algorithm V both given access to a setup S. The setup can either be a
random oracle or a reference string—we show later how we abstract over the
diﬀerences in their interfaces. P takes as input a statement x and witness w,
and outputs a proof π if (x, w) ∈R and ⊥otherwise. V takes as input (x, π)
and either outputs 1 or 0.
Deﬁnition 2 (NIZK). Let S be the setup, and (P, V) be a pair of algorithms with
access to setup S. Φ = (S, P, V) is a simulation-sound (optionally extractable)
non-interactive zero-knowledge proof system for relation R ⊆X ×Y if it has the
following properties:
Completeness: For all (x, w) ∈R, Pr
#
π ←PS(x, w) : VS(x, π) = 0
$
= 0.
S is a stateful oracle that captures both the common-random-string setting and
the random-oracle setting. In the random-oracle setting, S responds to a query
m by sampling a random string h of appropriate length ℓ(clear from context).
In the common-reference-string (CRS) setup, it samples a reference string on
the ﬁrst invocation, and from then onward returns the same reference string to
all callers.
Zero-Knowledge: The zero-knowledge property requires that no adversary can
distinguish the real game in which the setup is generated honestly and an honest
prover computes proofs using the correct algorithm P, from the simulated game
in which the proofs are computed by a simulator that does not take witnesses as
inputs, and in which the setup is also generated by the simulator. More formally,
there exist probabilistic polynomial time (PPT) simulator algorithms (SimS, Sim)
such that, for any PPT adversary A interacting in the experiment in Fig. 1, the
advantage function ν(λ) deﬁned below is negligible:
Advnizk
A (λ) =
%%%Pr
&
NIZKA,0(1λ) = 0
'
−Pr
&
NIZKA,1(1λ) = 0
'%%% = ν(λ)
Fig. 1. NIZK game

602
M. Kohlweiss et al.
SimS shares state with Sim modeling both RO programming and CRS trapdoors.
Additionally there is an extraction trapdoor τExt that will be used below to deﬁne
simulation extractability.
Soundness: A proof system is sound if no adversary can fool a veriﬁer into
accepting a proof of a false statement. It is simulation sound if the adversary
cannot do so even given oracle access to the simulator—of course in that case
the adversary is prohibited from outputting statement-proof pairs for which the
proof was obtained from the simulator. It is a proof of knowledge if a knowledge
extractor algorithm can compute the witness given appropriate access to the
adversarial prover’s algorithm. We explore various ﬂavors of simulation sound-
ness in the full version of this paper [52], but here we focus on just one of them:
the ﬂavor of a proof of knowledge that allows for (partial) straight-line extrac-
tion.
2.2
NIZK Proof of Knowledge
Simulation Extractability: A proof system is extractable (also often called a
proof of knowledge, or PoK for short) if there exists a polynomial-time extractor
algorithm that, on input a proof π for a statement x that passes veriﬁcation,
outputs the witness w for x. In order to reconcile extractability with the zero-
knowledge property, it is important that the extractor algorithm Ext have some
additional information that is not available to any regular participants in the
system. This information depends on the setup S: in the CRS setting, it is a
trapdoor that corresponds to the CRS; in the random-oracle setting it comes
from the ability to observe the adversary’s queries to the random oracle. Note
that, in addition, trapdoors can be embedded by programming the random ora-
cle. Further, a proof system is simulation-extractable if the extractor algorithm
works even when the adversary has oracle access to the simulator and can thus
obtain simulated proofs.
Let Q denote the simulator’s query tape that records all the queries the
adversary A made to the simulator. QS denotes the setup query tape that records
the queries, replies, and embedded trapdoors of the simulated setup; this is
explicitly recorded by OS and ˜OS. As we will discuss below, ˜OS additionally
reveals to A the extraction trapdoor τExt; this captures adaptive extraction from
many proofs.
Ad attractive deﬁnition of simulation extractability is the one of straight-line
extractability [39]: the extractor obtains the witness just from QS and the pair
(x, π). A weaker deﬁnition allows for black-box extractability, where the extrac-
tor additionally obtains black-box access to A, i.e. it can reset it to a previous
state. By BB(A) we denote this mode of access to A, and by ExtBB(A)(QS, x, π)
we denote an extractor algorithm that, in addition to its inputs, also has this
access to A. See the full version of this paper for additional discussions and the
deﬁnition of the black-box simulation extractability game NISimBBExtract. We
now propose a notion that falls between straight-line and black-box simulation
extractability.

Privacy-Preserving Blueprints
603
Black-Box
with
Partial
Straight
Line
(BB-PSL)
Simulation
Extractability: Sometimes, it is good enough that a straight-line extractor
be able to learn something about the witness, say some function f(w), not nec-
essarily the entire witness. For such a scenario, it is convenient to have two
extractors: Ext that is a black-box extractor that extracts the entire witness
given black-box access to the adversary, and ExtSL that extracts some function
of that witness in a straight-line fashion. The reason this is good enough for
some proofs of security is that, in a reduction, f(w) may be enough information
for the reduction to know how to proceed, without the need to reset the entire
security experiment. This is similar to f-extractability [4].
Let us now formalize BB-PSL simulation extractability; let Φ = (S, P, V)
be an NIZK proof system satisfying the zero-knowledge property above; let
(SimS, Sim) be the simulator. Let f be any polynomial-time computable function.
Φ is f-BB-PSL simulation-extractable if there exists a pair of polynomial-time
extractor algorithms (Ext, ExtSL) such that for any PPT adversary A partici-
pating in the game deﬁned in Fig. 2, the advantage function ν(λ) deﬁned below
is negligible. As mentioned before, Q denotes the query tape. QExt denotes the
setup query tape that records the queries, replies, and embedded trapdoors of
the simulated setup; this is explicitly recorded by OS.
Advnisimbbpslextract
A
(λ) = Pr
&
f-NISimBBPSLExtractA(1λ) = 1
'
= ν(λ)
for some negligible function ν.
Fig. 2. f-NISimBBPSLExtract game
More on the Simulator and Extractor. In the games NIZK, NISimSound,
and NISimBBPSLExtract the simulator initializes and updates the setup using
SimS and then responds to queries from A for simulated proofs using Sim. Note
that the two halves of the simulator, SimS and Sim, share state information,

604
M. Kohlweiss et al.
and update it when queried. This captures both the CRS and the random-oracle
settings. In the CRS setting, SimS computes the reference string S so that it can
pass the corresponding simulation trapdoor to Sim via the shared state. In the
random-oracle (RO) setting, SimS programs the random oracle (computes the
value h that the random oracle will return when queried on m) and uses the
shared state in order to memorize the information that Sim will need to use h in
the future. Similarly, in the random-oracle mode, Sim has the ability to program
the random oracle as well and memorize what it did using the state variable.
In the simulation extractability experiments, the extractor Ext takes QS as
input. In the CRS model, QS will contain the extraction trapdoor corresponding
to the CRS. In the RO model, QS also contains information that the simulator
algorithms SimS generated, such as how the RO was programmed and where the
adversary queried it. It does not, however, contain the simulation trapdoor or
give the extractor the ability to program the RO.
Our deﬁnition requires successful extraction even when all information in QS,
in particular τExt, is available to the adversary. This allows the adversary to run
Ext itself, and thus allows for extraction from multiple proofs.
Instantiating Simulation Extractable Proofs. While simulation-extract-
able proof systems exist for all NP relations [33], there are multiple ways to
realize non-interactive zero-knowledge (NIZK) proof systems more eﬃciently.
One of them is to start with Σ-protocols and convert them into a NIZK proof
in the random oracle model, e.g. using the techniques of [37,38,56]. As we will
elaborate below, Σ protocols are particularly suitable for proving knowledge of
group isomorphisms such as discrete logarithm representations; see, e.g. [57].
They can also eﬃciently prove disjunctive statements [30]. This has been used
for range proofs.
Bulletproofs [12] is a practically eﬃcient NIZK proof system for arith-
metic circuits, speciﬁcally optimized for range-proofs. Recent work shows that
Bulletproofs are simulation extractable [45] and can be integrated with Σ-
protocols [11].
Bernhard et al. [6, Theorem 1] state that Fiat-Shamir Σ-protocols are black-
box simulation extractable with respect to expected polynomial-time adversaries.
To show partial straightline extractability we use a theorem of [37, Theorem 2]
that shows that Σ-protocols compiled using Fiat-Shamir are simulation-sound
and adapt the theorem of [32, Theorem F.1] which shows how to transform
simulation-sound into simulation-extractable NIZK, by encrypting the witness
to the sky. Our approach diﬀers from their approach in that we only encrypt a
partial witness and can thus use groups for which computing discrete logarithms
is hard.
In Sect. 2.5 we give a construction from Σ-protocols of a proof system Ψ for
equality of discrete logarithm representation relations and prove that it is an f-
BB-PSL simulation-extractable NIZK proof system in the random-oracle model
for an appropriate f.

Privacy-Preserving Blueprints
605
Notation. When using NIZK proofs of knowledge in a protocol, it is convenient
to be able to compactly specify what exactly the prover is proving its knowledge
of. We shall use the notation:
π ←PoKΨ
(
w : R(x, w)
)
to indicate that the proof π was computed as follows: the proof system Ψ =
(S, P, V) for the relation R was used; the prover ran PS(x, w); to verify π, the
algorithm VS(x, π) needs to be run. In other words, the value w in this notation
is the witness the knowledge of which the prover is proving to the veriﬁer, while
x is known to the veriﬁer. A helpful feature of this notation is that it describes
what we need Ψ to be: it needs to be a NIZK PoK for the relation R.
2.3
Σ-Protocol for Proof of Equality of Discrete Logarithm
Representations
Let Reqrep be the following relation: Reqrep(x, w) accepts if x = (G, {xi, {gi,1, . . . ,
gi,m}}n
i=1) where G is the description of a group of order q, and all the xis and
gi,js are elements of G, and witness w = {wj}m
j=1 such that xi = "m
j=1 gwj
i,j .
P→V. On input the (x, w) ∈Reqrep, the Prover chooses ej ←Zq for 1 ≤j ≤m
and computes di = "m
j=1 gej
i,j for 1 ≤i ≤n. Finally, the Prover sends to the
Veriﬁer the values com = (d1, . . . , dn).
P←V. On input x and com, the Veriﬁer responds with a challenge chal = c for
c ←Zq.
P→V. The Prover receives chal = c and computes si = ei + cwi mod q for
1 ≤i ≤m, and sends res = (s1, . . . , sm) to the Veriﬁer.
Veriﬁcation. The Veriﬁer accepts if for all 1 ≤i ≤n, dixc
i = "m
j=1 gsj
i,j; rejects
otherwise.
Simulation. On input x and chal = c, the simulator chooses sj ←Zq for
1 ≤j ≤m, and sets di = ("m
j=1 gsj
i,j)/xc
i for 1 ≤i ≤n. He then sets
com = (d1, . . . , dn) and res = (s1, . . . , sm).
Extraction. On input two accepting transcripts for the same com
=
(d1, . . . , dn), namely chal = c, res = (s1, . . . , sm), and chal′ = c′, res′ =
(s′
1, . . . , s′
m), output wj = (sj −s′
j)/(c −c′) mod q for 1 ≤j ≤m.
2.4
From Σ-Protocols to BB Simulation Extractable NIZK PoK
via Fiat-Shamir
Let Ψeqrep = (Seqrep, Peqrep, Veqrep) be the proof system we get from the Σ-protocol
described in Sect. 2.3 via the Fiat-Shamir heuristic. Speciﬁcally, Seqrep is a ran-
dom oracle.
We use a theorem of [37, Theorem 2] that shows that Σ-protocols compiled
using Fiat-Shamir are simulation-sound; moreover, it follows from a theorem of
[6, Theorem 1] and the proof of [37, Theorem 3] that it is in fact black-box
simulation extractable.
Recall that the notation π ←PoKΨeqrep
(
w : Reqrep(x, w)
)
denotes that the
proof π is the output of Peqrep.

606
M. Kohlweiss et al.
2.5
gx-BB-PSL Simulation Extractable NIZK from Ψeqrep
Now we want a BB-PSL simulation extractable proof system for Reqrep such
that, in a straight-line fashion, a function of w can be extracted. Speciﬁcally,
recall that x = (G, {xi, {gi,1, . . . , gi,m}}n
i=1) and w = {wj}m
j=1 such that xi =
"m
j=1 gwj
i,j .
Consider the following proof system Ψ = (S, P, V) for the relation Reqrep
and for the function f(J, ·), deﬁned as follows. Let g be the generator of G
included in the description of G. Let J be a subset of the set of indices [m]. Let
f(J, w) = {gwj : j ∈J}.
S is a random oracle, but we interpret its output as follows: On input the
description of a group G with generator g of order q, outputs a random element
h of G; we can think of this h as the public key of the ElGamal cryptosystem.
P works as follows: on input x = (G, {xi, {gi,1, . . . , gi,m}}n
i=1) and w =
{wj}m
j=1, it ﬁrst obtains h = S(G) and then forms the ElGamal ciphertexts
of gwjk for each jk ∈J: (ck,1, ck,2) = (grk, gwjk hrk), for 1 ≤k ≤|J|.
It then forms x′ and w′ that allow us to express the following relation R as
a special case of Reqrep:
R = {x′, w′ | x′ = (x, {(cjk,1, cjk,2)}) and
w′ = (w, w′′) where w′′ = (r1, . . . , r|J|) such that
for 1 ≤k ≤|J|, (ck,1, ck,2) = (grk, gwjk hrk)
In order to express x′ and w′ as a statement and witness for Reqrep, form
them as follows: x′ = (G, {x′
i, {g′
i,1, . . . , g′
i,m′}}n′
i=1), where
n′ = n + 2|J|, m′ = m + |J|
For 1 ≤i ≤n, x′
i = xi, and for 1 ≤j ≤m, g′
i,j = gi,j, and for m < j ≤m + |J|,
g′
i,j = 1.
For 1 ≤k ≤|J|, x′
n+2(k−1)+1 = ck,1, g′
n+2(k−1)+1,m+k = g, and for ℓ̸= m + k,
1 ≤ℓ≤m + |J|, g′
n+2(k−1)+1,ℓ= 1.
For 1 ≤k ≤|J|, x′
n+2k = ck,2, g′
n+2k,jk = g, g′
n+2k,m+k = h, and for ℓ/∈
{jk, m + k}, 1 ≤ℓ≤m + |J|, g′
n+2(k−1)+1,ℓ= 1.
Set w′ = (w1, . . . , wm, r1, . . . , rk). Using the algorithm PS
eqrep, compute πeqrep ←
PoKΨeqrep
(
w′ : Reqrep(x′, w′)
)
, and output π = ({(ck,1, ck,2)}, πeqrep).
V works as follows: on input the statement x, and the proof π = ({(ck,1, ck,2)},
πeqrep), ﬁrst compute x′ exactly the same way as the prover’s algorithm P did.
Then output VS
eqrep(x′, πeqrep).
Theorem 1. Let the relation Reqrep = {(x, w)} be an equality of discrete loga-
rithm representations relation. For any J ⊆[m], let f(J, w) = {gwj
: j ∈J}.
The proof system Ψ = (S, P, V) is an f(J, ·)-BB-PSL simulation-extractable
NIZK proof system in the random-oracle model.
Proof (Sketch). We need to describe the setup simulator, the proof simulator,
the extractor trapdoor and the two extractors.

Privacy-Preserving Blueprints
607
SimS(state, m) →(state, h′, τExt): On input the description of a group G with
generator g of order q, sample τExt ←Zq and output the hash value that will
be interpreted as the element gτExt of G; we can think of this as the public key
of the ElGamal cryptosystem for secret key τExt. On other inputs simulate
the random oracle faithfully.
Sim(state, x) →(state, π): On input x, the simulator extends x with random
ElGamal ciphertexts to x′, chooses c ←Zq, sj ←Zq for 1 ≤j ≤m + |J|,
and sets di = ("m+k
j=1 gsj
i,j)/xc
i for 1 ≤i ≤n + 2|J|. He then sets com =
(d1, . . . , dn+2|J|), stores H[x, com] = c in state, sets chal = c, and res =
(s1, . . . , sm) and return (chal, res).
ExtBB(A)(QS, x, π) →w: Parse π as (chal, res) and compute com as Sim. Rewind
BB(A) to the point where it queried the random oracle on (x, com) and
provide it fresh random results. Repeat until it obtains two accepting tran-
scripts for the same com = (d1, . . . , dn+2|J|) and then run the extractor of
the Σ-protocol to obtain w′. Remove the last k elements to obtain w.
ExtSL(QS, x, π) →f(J, w): Parse x as (G, {xi, {gi,1, . . . , gi,m}}n+2|J|
i=1
), obtain
τExt from the entry (G, h, τExt) of QS. Interpret the last 2|J| elements xi as
ElGamal ciphertext and decrypt them to obtain f(J, w).
⊓⊔
3
Deﬁnition of Security of f-Blueprint Scheme
Our scheme features three parties: an auditor, a set of users, and a set of recip-
ients. It is tied to a non-interactive commitment scheme (CSetup, Commit); let
cpar be the parameters of the commitment scheme output by CSetup. The audi-
tor A has private input x and publishes a commitment CA = Commitcpar(x).
The user has private data y and publishes a commitment C = Commitcpar(y).
For example, x could be a list and y could be the user’s attributes in a credential
system. The auditor creates a key pair (pkA, skA) corresponding to its input x,
and the user can escrow its private data y under pkA to obtain an escrow Z. We
require that Z decrypts (with the help of skA) to f(x, y) for a function f that all
parties have agreed upon in advance. In the deﬁnition, we do not restrict f: it
can be any eﬃciently computable function. Moreover, an escrow recipient R can
verify that indeed Z was computed correctly for the given pkA and C. Similarly,
a privacy-conscious user can verify that indeed pkA was computed correctly for
the given warrants data commitment CA.
Deﬁnition 3. An f-blueprint scheme tied to a non-interactive commitment
scheme (CSetup, Commit) consists of the following probabilistic polynomial time
algorithms:
Setup(1λ, cpar) →Λ: is the algorithm that sets up the public parameters Λ. It
takes as input the security parameter 1λ and the commitment parameters
cpar output by CSetup(1λ); to reduce the number of inputs to the rest of
the algorithms, Λ includes 1λ and cpar; we will also write Commit instead of
Commitcpar to reduce notational overhead.

608
M. Kohlweiss et al.
KeyGen(Λ, x, rA) →(pkA, skA): is the key generation algorithm for auditor A.
It takes in input 1λ, parameters Λ, and values (x, rA), and outputs the key
pair (pkA, skA). The values (x, rA) deﬁne a commitment CA. This allows to
integrate KeyGen into larger systems.1
VerPK(Λ, pkA, CA) →1 or 0: is the algorithm that, on input the auditor’s public
key pkA and a commitment CA, veriﬁes that the warrant public key was
computed correctly for the commitment CA.
Escrow(Λ, pkA, y, r) →Z: is the algorithm that, on input the values (y, r) outputs
an escrow Z for commitment C = Commit(y; r).
VerEscrow(Λ, pkA, C, Z) →1 or 0: is the algorithm that, on input the auditor’s
public key pkA, a commitment C, and an escrow Z, veriﬁes that the escrow
was computed correctly for the commitment C.
Decrypt(Λ, skA, C, Z) →f(x, y) or ⊥: is the algorithm that, on input the audi-
tor’s secret key skA, a commitment C and an escrow Z such that VerEscrow(Λ,
pkA, C, Z) = 1, decrypts the escrow. Our security properties will ensure that
it will output f(x, y) if C is a commitment to y.
Deﬁnition 4 (Secure blueprint). An f-blueprint scheme Blu = (Setup,
KeyGen,
VerPK, Escrow, VerEscrow, Decrypt)
tied
to
commitment
scheme
(CSetup, Commit) constitutes a secure f-blueprint scheme if it satisﬁes the fol-
lowing properties:
Correctness of VerPK and VerEscrow: Values (cpar, pkA, CA, C, Z) are gen-
erated honestly if: (1) cpar is generated by CSetup(1λ); (2) Λ is generated by
Setup(1λ, cpar); (3) pkA is the output of KeyGen(Λ, x, rA); (4) CA = Commitcpar(
x; rA); (5) C = Commitcpar(y; r); (6) Z is generated by Escrow(Λ, pkA, y, r).
For honestly generated values (cpar, pkA, CA, C, Z), we require that algorithms
VerEscrow and VerPK accept with probability 1.
Correctness of Decrypt: Similarly, we require for honestly generated (cpar, pkA,
skA, C, Z) that with overwhelming probability Decrypt(Λ, skA, C, Z) = f(x, y).
Soundness: Let CA and C be commitments whose openings (x, rA) and (y, r) are
known to the adversary. Let (pkA, skA) ←KeyGen(Λ, x, rA) be honestly derived
keys. Soundness guarantees that any pkA, Z pair that passes VerEscrow(Λ, pkA,
C, Z) will decrypt to f(x, y) with overwhelming probability. More formally, for all
PPT adversaries A involved in the experiment in Fig. 3, there exists a negligible
function ν such that: Advsound
A,Blu(λ) = Pr
&
SoundA
Blu(λ) = 1
'
= ν(λ)
Blueprint Hiding: We want to make sure that pkA just reveals that x is a
valid ﬁrst argument to f (i.e. this may possibly reveal the size of x or an upper
bound on its size). Otherwise, x is hidden even from an adversary who (1) may
already know a lot of information about x a-priori; and (2) has oracle access to
Decrypt(Λ, skA, ·, ·).
1 E.g., A can prove that x does not contain journalists, but does contain all Russian
oligarchs on the OFAC’s sanctions list. https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/
ﬁnancial-sanctions.

Privacy-Preserving Blueprints
609
Fig. 3. Experiments SoundA
Blu(λ)
We formalize this security property by requiring that there exist a simula-
tor Sim = (SimSetup, SimKeygen, SimDecrypt) such that a PPT adversary can-
not distinguish between the following two games: the “real” game in which
Λ is chosen honestly, the public key pkA is computed correctly for adversari-
ally chosen x, rA, and the adversary’s decryption queries (C, Z) are answered
with Decrypt(Λ, skA, C, Z); and the “ideal” game in which Λ is computed using
SimSetup, the public key pkA is computed using SimKeygen independently of x
(although with access to the commitment CA), and the adversary’s decryption
query Zi is answered by ﬁrst running SimDecrypt to obtain enough information
about the user’s data yi to be able to compute f(x, yi). When we say “enough
information,” we mean that SimDecrypt obtains y∗
i = g(yi) for some function g
such that f(x, y) = f ∗(x, g(y)) for an eﬃciently computable f ∗, for all possible
inputs (x, y)2.
More formally, for all probabilistic poly-time adversaries A involved in the
game described in Fig. 4, the advantage function satisﬁes:
Advbh
A,Sim(λ) =
%%% Pr
&
BHrealA
Blu(λ) = 0
'
−Pr
&
BHidealA
Blu,Sim(λ) = 0
' %%% = ν(λ)
for some negligible ν.
Privacy Against Dishonest Auditor: There exists a simulator such that the
adversary’s views in the following two games are indistinguishable:
1. Real Game: The adversary generates the public key and the data x cor-
responding to this public key, honest users follow the Escrow protocol using
adversarial inputs and openings.
2. Privacy-Preserving Game: The adversary generates the public key and
the data x corresponding to this public key. Next, for adversarially chosen
inputs and openings, the users run a simulator algorithm that depends only on
the commitment and f(x, y) but is independent of the commitment openings.
2 For example, if x is a list (x1, . . . , xn) and f(x, y) checks if y = xi for some i, g(y)
can be a one-way permutation: in order to determine whether y is on the list, it is
suﬃcient to compute g(xj) and compare it to y∗= g(y).

610
M. Kohlweiss et al.
Fig. 4. Experiments BHrealA
Blu(λ) and BHidealA
Blu,Sim(λ)
More formally, there exists algorithms Sim = (SimSetup, SimEscrow) such that,
for any PPT adversary A involved in the game described in Fig. 5, the following
equation holds for some negligible function ν:
Advpada
A,Blu,Sim(λ) =
%%% Pr
&
PADAA,0
Blu,Sim(λ) = 1
'
−Pr
&
PADAA,1
Blu,Sim(λ) = 1
' %%% = ν(λ)
Privacy with Honest Auditor: There exists a simulator Sim such that the
adversary’s views in the following two games are indistinguishable:
1. Real Game: The honest auditor generates the public key on input x pro-
vided by the adversary, and honest users follow the Escrow protocol on input
adversarially chosen openings.
2. Privacy-Preserving Game: The honest auditor generates the public key
on input x provided by the adversary. On input adversary-generated com-
mitments and openings, the users run a simulator that is independent of y
(although with access to the commitment C) to form their escrows.
In both of these games, the adversary has oracle access to the decryption algo-
rithm.
We formalize these two games in Fig. 6. We require that there exists a simu-
lator Sim = (SimSetup, SimEscrow) such that, for any PPT adversary A involved
in the game described in the ﬁgure, the following equation holds:
Advpwha
Blu,Sim(λ) =
%%% Pr
&
PWHAA,0
Blu,Sim(λ) = 0
'
−Pr
&
PWHAA,1
Blu,Sim(λ) = 0
' %%% = ν(λ)

Privacy-Preserving Blueprints
611
Fig. 5. Game PADAA,b
Blu (λ)
for some negligible function ν.
Fig. 6. Game PWHAA,b
Blu,Sim(λ)

612
M. Kohlweiss et al.
4
Homomorphic Enough Encryption
Deﬁnition 5 (Homomorphic-enough cryptosystem (HEC) for a func-
tion family).
Let F = {f | f : domainf,x × domainf,y 0→rangef} be a set
of polynomial-time computable functions. We say that the set HEC of algo-
rithms (HECsetup, HECenc, HECeval, HECdec, HECdirect) constitute a
homomorphic-enough cryptosystem (HEC) for F if they satisfy the following
input-output, correctness, and security requirements:
HECsetup(1λ) →hecpar is a PPT algorithm that, on input the security param-
eter, outputs the parameters hecpar; in case there is no HECsetup algo-
rithm, hecpar = 1λ.
HECenc(hecpar, f, x) →(X, d) is a PPT algorithm that, on input the param-
eters hecpar, a function f ∈F, and a value x ∈domainf,x, outputs an
encrypted representation X of the function f(x, ·), and a decryption key d.
HECeval(hecpar, f, X, y) →Z is a PPT algorithm that, on input the parame-
ters hecpar, a function f ∈F, an encrypted representation of f(x, ·), and a
value y ∈domainf,y, outputs a ciphertext Z, an encryption of f(x, y).
HECdec(hecpar, d, Z) →z is a polynomial-time algorithm that, on input the
parameters hecpar, the decryption key d, and a ciphertext Z, decrypts Z to
obtain a value z.
HECdirect(hecpar, X, z) →Z is a PPT algorithm that, on input hecpar, an
encrypted representation X of some function, and a value z, outputs a cipher-
text Z.
HEC Correctness. For a given adversary A and HEC, let AdvHEC,A(λ) be the
probability that the experiment HECcorrect in Fig. 7 accepts. HEC is correct
if AdvHEC,A(λ) is negligible for all PPT algorithms A.
Security of x, Security of x and y from Third Parties, and Security of
DirectZ. Consider Fig. 7. For a given HEC and an adversary A, and for b ∈
{0, 1}, let pSecX
A,b (λ) be the probability that A outputs 0 in experiment SecXA
b ,
let pSecXY
A,b
(λ) be the probability that A outputs 0 in experiment SecXYA
b , and
let pDirectZ
A,b
(λ) be the probability that A outputs 0 in experiment DirectZA
b .
HEC provides security for x if or any PPT A, |pSecX
A,0 (λ) −pSecX
A,1 (λ)| is neg-
ligible. HEC provides security for x and y from third parties if or any PPT A,
|pSecXY
A,0
(λ) −pSecXY
A,1
(λ)| is negligible. HEC provides security of DirectZ if or
any PPT A, |pDirectZ
A,0
(λ) −pDirectZ
A,1
(λ)| is negligible.
Remark. Why do we need HECdirect? It allows us to directly form a cipher-
text Z that will decrypt to a speciﬁc value z. If the function f is not one-way
and it is easy, given z, to sample x and y such that z = f(x, y), then we can
derive such Z by computing (X, d) = HECenc(hecpar, f, x) and then comput-
ing Z = HECeval(hecpar, f, X, y). But in general, it is helpful (for some appli-
cations) to have a separate algorithm HECdirect(hecpar, X, z) such that, if
X = HECenc(hecpar, f, x), then Z = HECdirect(hecpar, X, z) decrypts to z
using the decryption key that corresponds to X, i.e. z = HECdec(hecpar, d, Z).

Privacy-Preserving Blueprints
613
Fig. 7. HEC correctness and security games
5
A Generic f-Blueprint Scheme from HEC
We construct a privacy-preserving blueprint scheme using a commitment scheme,
a homomorphic-enough cryptosystem, as well as two NIZK proof systems as
building blocks. The scheme consists of the following six algorithms:
Setup takes λ and a commitment setup as input and generates hecpar and
assigns the NIZK oracles S1 and S2. Note that when instantiated using real
hash functions or reference strings both RO and CRS setups can be represented
as bit-strings in implementations. KeyGen uses the HEC scheme to compute an
encrypted representation of the function f(x, ·) and proves that it was computed
correctly. VerPK veriﬁes that pkA was computed correctly with respect to the
auditor’s commitment CA. Escrow homomorphically evaluates f(x, ·) on y to
obtain a ciphertext and proves that it was formed correctly. VerEscrow veriﬁes
the ciphertext with respect to the user’s commitment C, and Decrypt decrypts.
Our construction in Fig. 8 uses VerPK as a subroutine in Escrow and
VerEscrow. To be consistent with the syntax we add CA to pkA. Similarly, we use
VerEscrow in Decrypt and add pkA to skA.
Theorem 2. If HEC is a secure homomorphic-enough cryptosystem, the com-
mitment scheme is binding, and the NIZK PoKs Ψ1 and Ψ2 are zero-knowledge

614
M. Kohlweiss et al.
Fig. 8. Construction of generic f-blueprint scheme
and BB-PSL simulation extractable then our generic blueprint scheme is a secure
f-blueprint scheme.
Note that, our formal security theorem does not require the commitment
to be hiding. It only shows, using simulation, that no additional information
besides the commitment is revealed. To beneﬁt from the hiding and privacy
properties of the blueprint scheme it is, however, crucial that the transaction
system employing it uses a hiding commitment scheme.
We prove correctness of VerEscrow and VerPK, correctness of Decrypt, sound-
ness, blueprint hiding, privacy against dishonest auditor, and privacy with honest
auditor in separate lemmas. The statement and proof of these lemmas are in the
full version [52].

Privacy-Preserving Blueprints
615
6
HEC from the ElGamal Cryptosystem
For a binary string y (or an integer which can be interpreted as a binary
string) and an integer k, let lobitsk(y) = y mod 2k; i.e., lobitsk(y) denotes the
k least signiﬁcant bits of y (or, equivalently, the corresponding integer). Let
domainf,y = {0, 1}ly. Let us use bold font to indicate that x is a set of values;
let Wℓ= {x | x ⊆domainf,y, |x| = ℓ}. Let the function family Fℓ= {fk}, where
fk : Wℓ× domainf,y 0→domainf,y is deﬁned as follows:
fk(x, y) =
!
y
lobitsk(y) ∈x
∅
otherwise
In other words, the function reveals y if lobitsk(y) ∈x, and nothing otherwise.
In this section, we will use the ElGamal cryptosystem in order to construct
an HEC for fℓ∈Fℓfor any k, ℓsuch that ℓand 2ly−k are polynomial in λ. Our
cryptosystem will use a group G of prime order q > 2ly.
6.1
The ElGamalHEC Construction and Its Security
The idea of our construction ElGamalHEC for a HEC for functions fk ∈Fℓ, is
that HECenc outputs the ElGamal ciphertexts of the coeﬃcients of a random
polynomial P of degree ℓ= |x| whose roots are elements of x. More precisely,
P = s "|x|
i=1(, −xi), that is P = *|x|
i=0 Pi,i. The randomness in P comes from
the choice of the leading coeﬃcient s. HECenc outputs the ciphertexts Ci ←
Enc(gPi) that encrypt the coeﬃcients Pi of P; these ciphertext are part of X.
Using these ciphertexts {Ci} and the homomorphic properties of ElGamal,
HECeval computes an encryption of grP (lobitsk(y))+y for a random r. Note that
if lobitsk(y) ∈x, this is just an encryption of gy; otherwise, it is an encryption
of a random element of G. Thus, HECdec can use the ElGamal decryption
algorithm to obtain some group element gz, and then use the fact that ℓand
2ly−k to either recover y with exhaustive search, or determine that fk(x, y) = ∅.
Figure 9 describes our construction, ElGamalHEC. Here, (KGen, Enc, Dec) are
the key generation, encryption, and decryption algorithms of ElGamal. Recall
that ⊕is the homomorphic operator for ciphertexts.

616
M. Kohlweiss et al.
Fig. 9. Our Construction ElGamalHEC
Theorem 3. Under the decisional Diﬃe-Hellman assumption, ElGamalHEC
constitutes a homomorphic-enough encryption for fk any k, ℓsuch that ℓand
2ly−k are polynomial in λ, for any fk ∈Fℓ.
We prove each of the required security properties in a separate lemma in
the full version [52]. As surprisingly, one of the most challenging lemmas is
HECCorrectness due to the adversaries control over the evaluation random-
ness, we reproduce it here.
Lemma 1. Under the decisional Diﬃe-Hellman assumption, ElGamalHEC sat-
isﬁes the correctness property of HEC for fk.
Proof. Let A be a PPT adversary playing the HEC correctness game with
ElGamalHEC. Let ϵA(1λ) be the probability that the challenger accepts. Below,
we (1) provide modiﬁed games G0 and G1 such that the probability that the chal-
lenger in G0 accepts is also ϵA(1λ); (2) prove that the probability ϵ′
A(1λ) that
the challenger in G1 accepts is negligible; (3) give a reduction BHEC that breaks
the security of the ElGamal cryptosystem with advantage ϵA(1λ)−ϵ′
A(1λ). Since
the ElGamal cryptosystem is secure under the DDH assumption, it follows that,
under the DDH assumption, ϵA(1λ) is negligible.
(1) First, consider the following game G0, which is the same as the HEC cor-
rectness game with our ElGamal instantiation, except that actual poly-
nomial evaluation instead of homomorphic evaluation. G0 ﬁrst obtains

Privacy-Preserving Blueprints
617
Fig. 10. Reduction for part (3) of the proof of Lemma 1
(f, x, state) ←A(1λ, hecpar); if f ∈F, x ∈domainf,x, then it computes
X as HECenc(hecpar, fk, x), except that it renames P into P0 and s into
s0, i.e., it computes a polynomial P0(,) = s0
"|x|
i=1(, −xi), where {xi} = x.
Next, it invokes A again to receive (y, rZ) ←A(state, X ); from it, it com-
putes y′ ←P0(lobitsk(y))rZ + y. If (lobits(y′) ∈x) ∧(lobits(y) /∈x), accept.
That is, instead of a homomorphic evaluation of P0 using the ciphertexts
C0, . . . , C|x|, followed by decrypting the resulting ciphertext, it performs an
actual evaluation of P0. Observe that the probability that the challenger
in G0 accepts is the same as in the original correctness game due to the
correctness of homomorphic polynomial evaluation.
Second, consider the game G1 that proceeds similarly to G0: in addition to
polynomial P0 it computes a polynomial P1(,) = s1
"|x|
i=1(, −xi) with its
own random value s1 that it uses within HECenc (instead of P0). Thus,
X consists of the ciphertexts that correspond to coeﬃcients of P1. Running
HECeval followed by HECdec on input y would correspond to homo-
morphically evaluating P1(y); instead, G1 (like G0) uses P0 to compute
y′ ←P0(lobitsk(y))rZ + y and accepts if (lobits(y′) ∈x) ∧(lobits(y) /∈x).
(2) Let us prove that the probability ϵ′
A(1λ) that the challenger in G1 accepts
is negligible. The challenger will accept only if lobits(y) /∈x, so let us
consider this case. Then P0(lobitsk(y)) ̸= 0, and, since s0 is random,

618
M. Kohlweiss et al.
y′ = P0(lobitsk(y)) ̸= 0 is independent of A’s view. Thus, for any x ∈x,
Pr[lobits(y′) = x] ≈2−k, thus the probability that G1 accepts is ≈|x| 2−k.
(3) We construct the reduction BHEC to the security of the ElGamal cryptosys-
tem. Recall that, under the DDH assumption, the ElGamal cryptosystem is
CPA-secure using the formulation of Boneh and Shoup (see Sect. 2); we use
this version of (multi-instance) CPA-security in our reduction (this makes
the proof simpler as it avoids the hybrid argument). BHEC creates both
polynomials Pj ←sj
"|x|
i=1(, −xi), j ∈{0, 1}. Let Pj,i be their coeﬃ-
cients. It obtains the encryption of the coeﬃcients of one of these poly-
nomials via the ElGamal challenger: Ci ←Ob(gP0,i, gP1,i). This is described
in more detail in Fig. 10. Observe that, BOb(·,·)
HEC (1λ, pkE) creates the same
view for A as Gb. Therefore, Pr
#
IND−CPABHEC,0(1λ) = 0
$
= ϵA(1λ) and
Pr
#
IND−CPABHEC,1(1λ) = 0
$
= ϵ′
A(1λ). Since ElGamal is CPA-secure under
the DDH assumption, ϵA(1λ) −ϵ′
A(1λ) ≤Pr
#
IND−CPABHEC,0(1λ) = 0
$
−
Pr
#
IND−CPABHEC,1(1λ) = 0
$
is negligible as required.
⊓⊔
6.2
From ElGamalHEC to an Eﬃcient Secure Blueprint Scheme
In order to use our HEC construction in Fig. 9 to construct our Generic f-
blueprint scheme in Fig. 8, we need a BB simulation extractable proof system
for Ψ1 to prove knowledge of the witness in the following relation:
(x = (X , hecpar, f, CA, cpar),
w = (x, d, rX , rA)
%%%(X , d) = HECenc(hecpar, f, x; rX ) ∧
CA = Commitcpar(x; rA)
)
The building blocks of this relation are statements about the message and ran-
domness of ElGamal encryption and the opening of Pedersen commitments that
can be expressed as statements about discrete logarithms representations in
Reqrep. By Theorem 1, we have a BB simulation-extractible NIZK proof system
for Reqrep and in extension Ψ1.
For our speciﬁc construction, we assume that the auditor’s commitment CA
contains commitments to coeﬃcients of the polynomial P ′ = "|x|
i=1(, −xi).
To prove that we encrypted some polynomial P = sP ′ involves proving that
P = sP ′. We ﬁrst prove that we have properly encrypted the coeﬃcients of P ′.
Then, we can exponentiate these encrypted values by s, eﬀectively multiplying
the coeﬃcients by s.
See the full version [52] for more details.
Additionally, we require that there exists a f ′-BB-PSL simulation extractable
proof system for Ψ2 such that there exists an eﬃciently computable function f ∗
where f ∗(x, f ′(y)) = f(x, y) for all (f, x, y) ∈F ×domainf,x ×domainf,y. Recall
that Ψ2 is used to prove the following relation:
(x = ( ˆZ, hecpar, f, X, C, cpar),
w = (y, r, r ˆ
Z)
%%%
ˆZ = HECeval(hecpar, f, X, y; r ˆ
Z) ∧
C = Commitcpar(y; r)
)

Privacy-Preserving Blueprints
619
We need a range proof to prove that lobitsk(y) is used to generate Eval in ˆZ. This
can be done using Bulletproofs [12]. The rest of the building blocks for the rela-
tion involves statements about ElGamal encryption and Pedersen commitments,
we can again be expressed as eqrep relation statement.
Theorem 1 guarantees a f(J, ·)-BB-PSL simulation extractable NIZK system
for eqrep, and in extension Ψ2. Recall that f(J, w) = {gwj : j ∈J }. Here, if we
choose J to be a singleton containing just the index corresponding to y in w,
we get a gy-BB-PSL simulation extractable NIZK system. Luckily, knowing x
and y is suﬃcient to compute f(x, y). Here, f ∗(x, gy) can be computed similar
to HECdec in Fig. 9. We ﬁrst iterate over all y′ values such that lobitsk(y′) ∈x.
If gy′ = gy, we return y′. If no such value exists, we return ∅. Since |x| 2ly−k
is polynomial in λ, f ∗is eﬃciently computable. See full version [52] for more
details.
7
HEC for Any f from Fully Homomorphic Encryption
Deﬁnition 6. (Circuit-private (CP) fully homomorphic encryption
(FHE)).
A tuple of algorithms (FHEKeyGen, FHEEnc, FHEDec, FHEEval) con-
stitute a secure fully homomorphic public-key encryption scheme [9,10,46,47]
if:
Input-output speciﬁcation: FHEKeyGen(1λ, Λ) takes as input the security
parameter and possibly system parameters Λ and outputs a secret key FHESK
and a public key FHEPK. FHEEnc(FHEPK, b) takes as input the public
key and a bit b ∈{0, 1} and outputs a ciphertext c. FHEDec(FHESK, c)
takes as input a ciphertext c and outputs the decrypted bit b ∈{0, 1}.
FHEEval(FHEPK, Φ, c1, . . . , cn) takes as input a public key, a Boolean cir-
cuit Φ
:
{0, 1}n 0→{0, 1}, and n ciphertexts and outputs a ciphertext cΦ;
correctness (below) ensures that cΦ is an encryption of Φ(b1, . . . , bn) where
ci is an encryption of bi.
Correctness of evaluation: For any integer n (polynomial in λ) for any circuit
Φ with n inputs of size that is polynomial in λ, for all x ∈{0, 1}n, the event
that FHEDec(FHESK, C) ̸= Φ(x) where (FHESK, FHEPK) are output by
FHEKeyGen, c1, . . . , cn are ciphertexts where ci ←FHEEnc(FHEPK, xi), and
cΦ = FHEEval(FHEPK, Φ, c1, . . . , cn), has probability 0.
Security: FHE must satisfy the standard deﬁnition of semantic security.
Compactness: What makes fully homomorphic encryption non-trivial is the
property that the ciphertext cΦ should be of a ﬁxed length that is indepen-
dent of the size of the circuit Φ and of n. More formally, there exists a
polynomial s(λ) such that for all circuits Φ, for all (FHESK, FHEPK) out-
put by FHEKeyGen(λ) and for all input ciphertexts c1, . . . , cn generated by
FHEEnc(FHEPK, ·), cΦ generated by FHEEval(FHEPK, Φ, c1, . . . , cn) is at
most s(λ) bits long.
An FHE scheme is, additionally, circuit-private [8,35,46,60] for a circuit
family C if for any PPT algorithm A that outputs (R, Φ0, Φ1, (x1, r1), . . . , (xn, rn)),

620
M. Kohlweiss et al.
the probability of distinguishing the homomorphic evaluation of Φ0 on {ci
=
FHEEnc(FHEPK, xi; ri)}i∈[n] where FHEPK is computed as FHEKeyGen(1λ; R)
cannot be distinguished from the corresponding evaluation of Φ1 on the same
ciphertexts, as long as Φ0(x1, . . . , xn) = Φ1(x1, . . . , xn).
Bibliographic Note. Deﬁnitions of circuit-privacy in the literature come in diﬀer-
ent ﬂavors; we chose the formulation that makes it easiest to prove Theorem 4
below. The strongest, malicious circuit-privacy [35,60], is strictly stronger than
what we give here; therefore, constructions that achieve it automatically achieve
the deﬁnition here. Constructions of circuit-private FHE from regular FHE have
been given by Ostrovsky et al. [60] and by D¨ottling and Dujmovi´c [35].
Similarly, we chose to formulate correctness as perfect correctness, rather
than allowing a negligible probability (over the randomness for the key genera-
tion, encryption, and evaluation) of a decryption error. Our construction below
also achieves HEC from schemes that are strongly correct, i.e. where the prob-
ability of a decryption error is non-zero, but with high probability, no eﬃcient
adversary can ﬁnd a public key and a set of ciphertexts and a circuit that will
cause a decryption error. Achieving strong correctness from the more standard
notion of correctness with overwhelming probability can be done with standard
techniques, see the full version [52].
Construction of HEC for Any f from CP-FHE. For a Boolean function
g : {0, 1}ℓx × {0, 1}ℓy 0→{0, 1}, an ℓy-bit string y and a value z ∈{0, 1}2, let
Φg
y,z(x) be the Boolean circuit that outputs g(x, y) if z1 = 0, and z2 otherwise.
Recall that our goal is to construct a secure f-HEC scheme with a direct
encryption algorithm; suppose that the length of the output of f is ℓ; for 1 ≤
j ≤ℓ, let fj(x, y) be the Boolean function that outputs the jth bit of f(x, y).
Suppose we are given an FHE scheme that is circuit-private for the families of
circuits {Cj} deﬁned as follows: Cj = {Φfj
y,z(x) : y ∈{0, 1}ℓy, z ∈{0, 1}2}.
HECsetup(1λ) →Λ : Generate the FHE parameters Λ, if needed.
HECenc(1λ, Λ, f, x)
→
(X, d)
:
Generate (FHESK, FHEPK) ←FHEKeyGen(1λ, Λ). Let |x| = n; set ci ←
FHEEnc(FHEPK, xi). Output X = (FHEPK, c1, . . . , cn), and decryption key
d = FHESK.
HECeval(hecpar, f, X, y) →Z : Parse X = (FHEPK, c1, . . . , cn). For j =
1 to ℓ, compute Zj ←FHEEval(FHEPK, Φfj
y,00, c1, . . . , cn). Output Z =
(Z1, . . . , Zℓ).
HECdec(hecpar, d, Z) →z : Output (FHEDec(d, Z1), . . . , FHEDec(d, Zℓ)).
HECdirect(hecpar, X, z) →Z : Parse X = (FHEPK, c1, . . . , cn). For j =
1 to ℓ, compute Zj ←FHEEval(FHEPK, Φfj
0ℓ,1zj, c1, . . . , cn). Output Z =
(Z1, . . . , Zℓ).
Theorem 4. If
(FHEKeyGen, FHEEnc, FHEDec, FHEEval)
is
a
fully-homo-
morphic public-key encryption scheme that is circuit-private for circuit fam-
ily {Cf
j
:
f ∈F} deﬁned above, then our construction above constitutes a
homomorphic-enough encryption for the family F.

Privacy-Preserving Blueprints
621
Proof. (Sketch) Correctness follows from the perfect correctness of FHE. Secu-
rity of x by semantic security of FHE. Security of x and y from third parties is
also by semantic security. Finally, the security of the direct encryption algorithm
follows by circuit privacy.
Combining the fact that circuit-private FHE exists if and only FHE exists,
and (as we saw earlier) the fact that HEC and simulation-extractable NIZK [33]
give us a secure blueprint scheme, we have the following result:
Corollary 1. If fully homomorphic encryption and simulation extractable NIZK
exist, then for any function f, secure f-blueprint scheme is realizable.
Acknowledgment. We thank Scott Griﬀy and Peihan Miao for helpful discussions,
and the anonymous referees for constructive feedback. This research was supported by
NSF awards #2154170 and #2154941, and by grants from Meta.
References
1. Ateniese, G., Camenisch, J., Joye, M., Tsudik, G.: A practical and provably secure
coalition-resistant group signature scheme. In: Bellare, M. (ed.) CRYPTO 2000.
LNCS, vol. 1880, pp. 255–270. Springer, Heidelberg (2000). https://doi.org/10.
1007/3-540-44598-6 16
2. Baldimtsi, F., Lysyanskaya, A.: Anonymous credentials light. In: Sadeghi, A.R.,
Gligor, V.D., Yung, M. (eds.) ACM CCS 2013, pp. 1087–1098. ACM Press (2013).
https://doi.org/10.1145/2508859.2516687
3. Bangerter, E., Camenisch, J., Lysyanskaya, A.: A cryptographic framework for
the controlled release of certiﬁed data. In: Christianson, B., Crispo, B., Malcolm,
J.A., Roe, M. (eds.) Security Protocols 2004. LNCS, vol. 3957, pp. 20–42. Springer,
Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/10.1007/11861386 4
4. Belenkiy, M., Chase, M., Kohlweiss, M., Lysyanskaya, A.: P-signatures and non-
interactive anonymous credentials. In: Canetti, R. (ed.) TCC 2008. LNCS, vol.
4948, pp. 356–374. Springer, Heidelberg (2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
540-78524-8 20
5. Bellare, M., Micciancio, D., Warinschi, B.: Foundations of group signatures: formal
deﬁnitions, simpliﬁed requirements, and a construction based on general assump-
tions. In: Biham, E. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2003. LNCS, vol. 2656, pp. 614–629.
Springer, Heidelberg (2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-39200-9 38
6. Bernhard, D., Pereira, O., Warinschi, B.: How not to prove yourself: pitfalls of
the ﬁat-Shamir heuristic and applications to Helios. In: Wang, X., Sako, K. (eds.)
ASIACRYPT 2012. LNCS, vol. 7658, pp. 626–643. Springer, Heidelberg (2012).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-34961-4 38
7. Boneh, D., Shoup, V.: A Graduate Course in Applied Cryptography. https://toc.
cryptobook.us/
8. Bourse, F., Del Pino, R., Minelli, M., Wee, H.: FHE circuit privacy almost for free.
In: Robshaw, M., Katz, J. (eds.) CRYPTO 2016, Part II. LNCS, vol. 9815, pp.
62–89. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53008-5 3
9. Brakerski, Z., Gentry, C., Vaikuntanathan, V.: (Leveled) fully homomorphic
encryption without bootstrapping. In: Goldwasser, S. (ed.) ITCS 2012, pp. 309–
325. ACM, January 2012. https://doi.org/10.1145/2090236.2090262

622
M. Kohlweiss et al.
10. Brakerski, Z., Vaikuntanathan, V.: Eﬃcient fully homomorphic encryption from
(standard) LWE. In: Ostrovsky, R. (ed.) 52nd FOCS, pp. 97–106. IEEE Computer
Society Press, October 2011. https://doi.org/10.1109/FOCS.2011.12
11. B¨unz, B., Agrawal, S., Zamani, M., Boneh, D.: Zether: towards privacy in a smart
contract world. In: Bonneau, J., Heninger, N. (eds.) FC 2020. LNCS, vol. 12059, pp.
423–443. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-51280-4 23
12. B¨unz, B., Bootle, J., Boneh, D., Poelstra, A., Wuille, P., Maxwell, G.: Bulletproofs:
short proofs for conﬁdential transactions and more. In: 2018 IEEE Symposium
on Security and Privacy, pp. 315–334. IEEE Computer Society Press, May 2018.
https://doi.org/10.1109/SP.2018.00020
13. Camenisch, J., Damg˚ard, I.: Veriﬁable encryption, group encryption, and their
applications to separable group signatures and signature sharing schemes. In:
Okamoto, T. (ed.) ASIACRYPT 2000. LNCS, vol. 1976, pp. 331–345. Springer,
Heidelberg (2000). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44448-3 25
14. Camenisch, J., Hohenberger, S., Kohlweiss, M., Lysyanskaya, A., Meyerovich, M.:
How to win the clonewars: eﬃcient periodic n-times anonymous authentication.
In: Juels, A., Wright, R.N., di Vimercati, S.D.C. (eds.) Proceedings of 13th ACM
Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pp. 201–210. ACM (2006)
15. Camenisch, J., Hohenberger, S., Lysyanskaya, A.: Compact E-cash. In: Cramer,
R. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2005. LNCS, vol. 3494, pp. 302–321. Springer, Heidelberg
(2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/11426639 18
16. Camenisch, J., Hohenberger, S., Lysyanskaya, A.: Balancing accountability and
privacy using e-cash (extended abstract). In: De Prisco, R., Yung, M. (eds.) SCN
2006. LNCS, vol. 4116, pp. 141–155. Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/
10.1007/11832072 10
17. Camenisch, J., Lysyanskaya, A.: An eﬃcient system for non-transferable anony-
mous credentials with optional anonymity revocation. In: Pﬁtzmann, B. (ed.)
EUROCRYPT 2001. LNCS, vol. 2045, pp. 93–118. Springer, Heidelberg (2001).
https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44987-6 7
18. Camenisch, J., Lysyanskaya, A.: A signature scheme with eﬃcient protocols. In:
Cimato, S., Persiano, G., Galdi, C. (eds.) SCN 2002. LNCS, vol. 2576, pp. 268–289.
Springer, Heidelberg (2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-36413-7 20
19. Camenisch, J., Lysyanskaya, A.: Signature schemes and anonymous credentials
from bilinear maps. In: Franklin, M. (ed.) CRYPTO 2004. LNCS, vol. 3152, pp.
56–72. Springer, Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-28628-8 4
20. Camenisch, J., Lysyanskaya, A., Neven, G.: Practical yet universally composable
two-server password-authenticated secret sharing. In: Yu, T., Danezis, G., Gligor,
V.D. (eds.) ACM CCS 2012, pp. 525–536. ACM Press, October 2012. https://doi.
org/10.1145/2382196.2382252
21. Camenisch, J., Shoup, V.: Practical veriﬁable encryption and decryption of discrete
logarithms. In: Boneh, D. (ed.) CRYPTO 2003. LNCS, vol. 2729, pp. 126–144.
Springer, Heidelberg (2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-45146-4 8
22. Camenisch, J., Stadler, M.: Eﬃcient group signature schemes for large groups.
In: Kaliski, B.S. (ed.) CRYPTO 1997. LNCS, vol. 1294, pp. 410–424. Springer,
Heidelberg (1997). https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0052252
23. Camenisch, J.L.: Group signature schemes and payment systems based on the
discrete logarithm problem. Ph.D. thesis, ETH Z¨urich (1998)
24. Chase, M., Miao, P.: Private set intersection in the internet setting from lightweight
oblivious PRF. In: Micciancio, D., Ristenpart, T. (eds.) CRYPTO 2020, Part III.
LNCS, vol. 12172, pp. 34–63. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-030-56877-1 2

Privacy-Preserving Blueprints
623
25. Chaum, D.: Blind signatures for untraceable payments. In: Chaum, D., Rivest,
R.L., Sherman, A.T. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology, pp. 199–203. Springer, Boston
(1983). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4757-0602-4 18
26. Chaum, D.: Blind signature systems. In: Chaum, D. (ed.) Advances in Cryptology,
pp. 153–156. Springer, Boston (1983). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4684-4730-
9 14
27. Chaum, D.: Security without identiﬁcation: transaction systems to make big
brother obsolete. Commun. ACM 28(10), 1030–1044 (1985)
28. Chaum, D., Fiat, A., Naor, M.: Untraceable electronic cash. In: Goldwasser, S.
(ed.) CRYPTO 1988. LNCS, vol. 403, pp. 319–327. Springer, New York (1990).
https://doi.org/10.1007/0-387-34799-2 25
29. Chaum, D., van Heyst, E.: Group signatures. In: Davies, D.W. (ed.) EUROCRYPT
1991. LNCS, vol. 547, pp. 257–265. Springer, Heidelberg (1991). https://doi.org/
10.1007/3-540-46416-6 22
30. Cramer, R., Damg˚ard, I., Schoenmakers, B.: Proofs of partial knowledge and sim-
pliﬁed design of witness hiding protocols. In: Desmedt, Y.G. (ed.) CRYPTO 1994.
LNCS, vol. 839, pp. 174–187. Springer, Heidelberg (1994). https://doi.org/10.1007/
3-540-48658-5 19
31. Damg˚ard, I.: On σ-protocols (2002). https://www.daimi.au.dk/∼ivan/Sigma.ps
32. Damg˚ard, I., Ganesh, C., Khoshakhlagh, H., Orlandi, C., Siniscalchi, L.: Balanc-
ing privacy and accountability in blockchain identity management. In: Paterson,
K.G. (ed.) CT-RSA 2021. LNCS, vol. 12704, pp. 552–576. Springer, Cham (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-75539-3 23
33. De Santis, A., Di Crescenzo, G., Ostrovsky, R., Persiano, G., Sahai, A.: Robust non-
interactive zero knowledge. In: Kilian, J. (ed.) CRYPTO 2001. LNCS, vol. 2139, pp.
566–598. Springer, Heidelberg (2001). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44647-8 33
34. Diaz, J., Lehmann, A.: Group signatures with user-controlled and sequential link-
ability. In: Garay, J.A. (ed.) PKC 2021, Part I. LNCS, vol. 12710, pp. 360–388.
Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-75245-3 14
35. D¨ottling, N., Dujmovic, J.: Maliciously circuit-private FHE from information-
theoretic principles. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2022/495 (2022). https://
eprint.iacr.org/2022/495
36. ElGamal, T.: A public key cryptosystem and a signature scheme based on discrete
logarithms. In: Blakley, G.R., Chaum, D. (eds.) CRYPTO 1984. LNCS, vol. 196,
pp. 10–18. Springer, Heidelberg (1985). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-39568-7 2
37. Faust, S., Kohlweiss, M., Marson, G.A., Venturi, D.: On the non-malleability of
the ﬁat-Shamir transform. In: Galbraith, S., Nandi, M. (eds.) INDOCRYPT 2012.
LNCS, vol. 7668, pp. 60–79. Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-642-34931-7 5
38. Fiat, A., Shamir, A.: How to prove yourself: practical solutions to identiﬁcation and
signature problems. In: Odlyzko, A.M. (ed.) CRYPTO 1986. LNCS, vol. 263, pp.
186–194. Springer, Heidelberg (1987). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-47721-7 12
39. Fischlin, M.: Communication-eﬃcient non-interactive proofs of knowledge with
online extractors. In: Shoup, V. (ed.) CRYPTO 2005. LNCS, vol. 3621, pp. 152–
168. Springer, Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/11535218 10
40. Frankle, J., Park, S., Shaar, D., Goldwasser, S., Weitzner, D.J.: Practical account-
ability of secret processes. In: Enck, W., Felt, A.P. (eds.) USENIX Security 2018,
pp. 657–674. USENIX Association, August 2018

624
M. Kohlweiss et al.
41. Fraser, A., Garms, L., Lehmann, A.: Selectively linkable group signatures—stronger
security and preserved veriﬁability. In: Conti, M., Stevens, M., Krenn, S. (eds.)
CANS 2021. LNCS, vol. 13099, pp. 200–221. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-030-92548-2 11
42. Freedman, M.J., Nissim, K., Pinkas, B.: Eﬃcient private matching and set inter-
section. In: Cachin, C., Camenisch, J.L. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2004. LNCS, vol.
3027, pp. 1–19. Springer, Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-
24676-3 1
43. Fujisaki, E., Okamoto, T.: Statistical zero knowledge protocols to prove modular
polynomial relations. In: Kaliski, B.S. (ed.) CRYPTO 1997. LNCS, vol. 1294, pp.
16–30. Springer, Heidelberg (1997). https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0052225
44. Fujisaki, E., Okamoto, T.: Witness hiding protocols to conﬁrm modular polyno-
mial relations. In: The 1997 Symposium on Cryptograpy and Information Security.
The Institute of Electronics, Information and Communcation Engineers, Fukuoka,
Japan, January 1997, sCSI97-33D
45. Ganesh, C., Orlandi, C., Pancholi, M., Takahashi, A., Tschudi, D.: Fiat-Shamir
bulletproofs are non-malleable (in the algebraic group model). In: Dunkelman, O.,
Dziembowski, S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2022, Part II. LNCS, vol. 13276, pp. 397–
426. Springer, Heidelberg (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-07085-3 14
46. Gentry, C.: Fully homomorphic encryption using ideal lattices. In: Proceedings of
STOC 2009, pp. 169–178 (2009)
47. Gentry, C., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Homomorphic encryption from learning with
errors: conceptually-simpler, asymptotically-faster, attribute-based. In: Canetti,
R., Garay, J.A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2013, Part I. LNCS, vol. 8042, pp. 75–92. Springer,
Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-40041-4 5
48. Goldwasser, S., Park, S.: Public accountability vs. secret laws: can they coexist?
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2018/664 (2018). https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/
664
49. Green, M., Kaptchuk, G., Van Laer, G.: Abuse resistant law enforcement access
systems. In: Canteaut, A., Standaert, F.-X. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2021, Part III.
LNCS, vol. 12698, pp. 553–583. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-77883-5 19
50. Ishai, Y., Kushilevitz, E., Ostrovsky, R., Prabhakaran, M., Sahai, A.: Eﬃcient
non-interactive secure computation. In: Paterson, K.G. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2011.
LNCS, vol. 6632, pp. 406–425. Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-642-20465-4 23
51. Kilian, J., Petrank, E.: Identity escrow. In: Krawczyk, H. (ed.) CRYPTO 1998.
LNCS, vol. 1462, pp. 169–185. Springer, Heidelberg (1998). https://doi.org/10.
1007/BFb0055727
52. Kohlweiss, M., Lysyanskaya, A., Nguyen, A.: Privacy-preserving blueprints. Cryp-
tology ePrint Archive, Paper 2022/1536 (2022). https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/1536
53. Libert, B., Nguyen, K., Peters, T., Yung, M.: Bifurcated signatures: folding the
accountability vs. anonymity dilemma into a single private signing scheme. In:
Canteaut, A., Standaert, F.-X. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2021, Part III. LNCS, vol.
12698, pp. 521–552. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
77883-5 18
54. Lysyanskaya, A.: Signature schemes and applications to cryptographic protocol
design. Ph.D. thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mas-
sachusetts, September 2002

Privacy-Preserving Blueprints
625
55. Lysyanskaya, A., Rivest, R.L., Sahai, A., Wolf, S.: Pseudonym systems. In: Heys,
H., Adams, C. (eds.) SAC 1999. LNCS, vol. 1758, pp. 184–199. Springer, Heidelberg
(2000). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-46513-8 14
56. Lysyanskaya, A., Rosenbloom, L.N.: Universally composable sigma-protocols in the
global random-oracle model. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2022/290 (2022).
https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/290
57. Maurer, U.: Unifying zero-knowledge proofs of knowledge. In: Preneel, B. (ed.)
AFRICACRYPT 2009. LNCS, vol. 5580, pp. 272–286. Springer, Heidelberg (2009).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-02384-2 17
58. Neﬀ, C.A.: A veriﬁable secret shu#e and its application to e-voting. In: Proceedings
of 8th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pp. 116–125.
ACM Press, November 2001
59. Nguyen, K., Guo, F., Susilo, W., Yang, G.: Multimodal private signatures. In:
CRYPTO 2022, Part II. LNCS, vol. 13508, pp. 792–822. Springer, Heidelberg
(2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15979-4 27
60. Ostrovsky, R., Paskin-Cherniavsky, A., Paskin-Cherniavsky, B.: Maliciously
circuit-private FHE. In: Garay, J.A., Gennaro, R. (eds.) CRYPTO 2014, Part I.
LNCS, vol. 8616, pp. 536–553. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-662-44371-2 30
61. Ostrovsky, R., Skeith, W.E.: Private searching on streaming data. In: Shoup, V.
(ed.) CRYPTO 2005. LNCS, vol. 3621, pp. 223–240. Springer, Heidelberg (2005).
https://doi.org/10.1007/11535218 14
62. Pedersen, T.P.: Non-interactive and information-theoretic secure veriﬁable secret
sharing. In: Feigenbaum, J. (ed.) CRYPTO 1991. LNCS, vol. 576, pp. 129–140.
Springer, Heidelberg (1992). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-46766-1 9
63. Sakai, Y., Emura, K., Hanaoka, G., Kawai, Y., Matsuda, T., Omote, K.: Group sig-
natures with message-dependent opening. In: Abdalla, M., Lange, T. (eds.) Pairing
2012. LNCS, vol. 7708, pp. 270–294. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-642-36334-4 18
64. Scafuro, A.: Break-glass encryption. In: Lin, D., Sako, K. (eds.) PKC 2019, Part
II. LNCS, vol. 11443, pp. 34–62. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-17259-6 2
65. Shoup, V.: Lower bounds for discrete logarithms and related problems. In: Fumy,
W. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 1997. LNCS, vol. 1233, pp. 256–266. Springer, Heidelberg
(1997). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-69053-0 18
66. Tsiounis, Y., Yung, M.: On the security of ElGamal based encryption. In: Imai, H.,
Zheng, Y. (eds.) PKC 1998. LNCS, vol. 1431, pp. 117–134. Springer, Heidelberg
(1998). https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0054019

