Probabilistically Checkable Arguments
for All NP
Shany Ben-David(B)
Department of Computer Science, Bar-Ilan University, Petah Tikva, Israel
shany.ben-david@biu.ac.il
Abstract. A probabilistically checkable argument (PCA) is a computa-
tional relaxation of PCPs, where soundness is guaranteed to hold only
for false proofs generated by a computationally bounded adversary. The
advantage of PCAs is that they are able to overcome the limitations
of PCPs. A succinct PCA has a proof length that is polynomial in the
witness length (and is independent of the non-deterministic veriﬁcation
time), which is impossible for PCPs, under standard complexity assump-
tions. Bronfman and Rothblum (ITCS 2022) constructed succinct PCAs
for NC that are publicly-veriﬁable and have constant query complexity
under the sub-exponential hardness of LWE.
We construct a publicly-veriﬁable succinct PCA with constant query
complexity for all NP in the adaptive security setting. Our PCA scheme
oﬀers several improvements compared to the Bronfman and Rothblum
construction: (1) it applies to all problems in NP, (2) it achieves adaptive
security, and (3) it can be realized under any of the following assump-
tions: the polynomial hardness of LWE; O(1)-LIN; or sub-exponential
DDH.
Moreover, our PCA scheme has a succinct prover, which means that for
any NP relation that can be veriﬁed in time T and space S, the proof can
be generated in time Oλ,m(T ·polylog(T)) and space Oλ,m(S·polylog(T)).
Here, Oλ,m accounts for polynomial factors in the security parameter
and in the size of the witness. En route, we construct a new complexity-
preserving RAM Delegation scheme that is used in our PCA construction
and may be of independent interest.
Keywords: succinct probabilistically checkable argument · PCA
1
Introduction
Probabilistically Checkable Proofs (PCPs) play a signiﬁcant role in complexity
theory and cryptography, leading to groundbreaking results in various ﬁelds.
This is evidenced by the remarkable PCP theorem which is one of the most
important results in theoretical computer science. The PCP theorem states that
the satisﬁability of a formula of size n can be proved in poly(n) time and can be
veriﬁed by querying only a constant number of bits from the proof.
Sponsored in part by the Israel Science Foundation (Grant No. 2302/22), and by the
BIU Center for Research in Applied Cryptography and Cyber Security in conjunction
with the Israel National Cyber Bureau in the Prime Minister’s Oﬃce.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2024
M. Joye and G. Leander (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2024, LNCS 14653, pp. 345–374, 2024.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-58734-4_12

346
S. Ben-David
While PCPs are a very powerful tool, they have several limitations. For exam-
ple, Fortnow and Santhanam [10] showed that PCPs cannot be succinct unless
the polynomial hierarchy collapses. A PCP proof is succinct if, for a formula of
size n with witness length m, the proof length is poly(m), rather than poly(n, m).
Beyond showing a limit to the eﬃciency of PCPs, this fact has broader impli-
cations. Harnik and Naor [11] raised the instance compression (IC) question, in
which we ask if it is possible to take any instance in any NP relation and compress
it to a short instance while preserving the information of whether the instance
is in the language or not. The main focus of this question is instances of size n
with a witness of size m, where the instance is much larger than the witness, i.e.,
m ≪n. A line of work [4,9–11] shows diﬀerent use cases for instance compres-
sion, including constructing a variety of fundamental cryptographic primitives.
Unfortunately, Fortnow and Santhanam showed that instance compression also
implies succinct PCPs, which means that instance compression does not exist
(unless the polynomial hierarchy collapses).
Probabilistically Checkable Arguments (PCA). The notion of PCA was intro-
duced as a computational analog of PCPs [5,15,19]. That is, soundness is required
to hold only against computationally bounded adversaries. This allows PCAs to
bypass information-theoretic barriers that limit PCP constructions.
In more detail, PCAs rely on a (honestly generated) common reference string
(CRS) which is given to both the prover and the veriﬁer. The key parameters
of interest in a PCA scheme include the size of the proof, the veriﬁer’s query
complexity and randomness complexity, and the prover’s running time. Unlike
typical cryptographic primitives, PCAs aim for constant soundness error against
polynomially bounded adversaries. This is inherent since PCAs additionally aim
for constant query complexity (independent of the security parameter). Note
that the soundness error is deﬁned over the randomness of generating the CRS,
the adversary, and the veriﬁer.
Succinct PCAs. A PCA for an NP relation R with veriﬁcation time t = t(n, m)
is said to be succinct if the PCA proof is of length poly(λ, m, log t), where n is the
instance size, m is the witness size, and λ is the security parameter. Importantly,
poly refers to a ﬁxed universal polynomial (that does not depend on the relation
R).
Previous Work on PCAs. Kalai and Raz [15] constructed a privately-veriﬁable
PCA. In the privately-veriﬁable setting, the veriﬁer must hold a trapdoor to the
common reference string in order to verify the proof. Their PCA construction
relies on exponential hardness assumptions for PIR schemes, providing non-
adaptive soundness, ensuring security for instances that are chosen independently
of the common reference string. Their construction gives poly(d, m) proof size

Probabilistically Checkable Arguments for All NP
347
and polylog(n) query complexity for languages that can be veriﬁed with circuits
of size n and depth d, using witness of size m.
Later on, Bronfman and Rothblum [5] were the ﬁrst to construct a publicly-
veriﬁable succinct PCA with constant query complexity, also with non-adaptive
soundness. Their results were a big step forward. However, they have two signif-
icant drawbacks. First, their PCA construction applies only to relations in NC
rather than to the entire NP class. Second, their PCA construction is under the
sub-exponential hardness assumption of the learning with error (LWE) problem.
Our PCA. We construct a publicly-veriﬁable succinct PCA with constant query
complexity in the adaptive security setting for all NP. Compared to the Bronf-
man and Rothblum construction, our PCA scheme exhibits improvements in
several aspects: (1) it applies to all problems in NP, (2) it achieves adaptive
security, (3) it can be realized under any of the following assumptions: the poly-
nomial hardness of LWE; O(1)-LIN; or sub-exponential Decisional Diﬃe-Hellman
(DDH), and (4) an eﬃcient prover, which we denote as a succinct prover.
PCA with a Succinct Prover. We say that a PCA scheme has a succinct prover
if, for any NP relation R that can be veriﬁed in time t = poly(n, m) and space
s = poly(n, m), the PCA prover (given the instance and the witness) generates
the proof in time t · poly(λ, m, log t) and space s · poly(λ, m, log t). Here, poly
refers to a ﬁxed universal polynomial (that does not depend on the relation R).1
Theorem 1 (Informal). Every NP relation has a publicly-veriﬁable succinct
PCA with constant query complexity under any one of the following assumptions:
(1) polynomial hardness of LWE; (2) O(1)-LIN; or (3) sub-exponential Decisional
Diﬃe-Hellman (DDH).
Moreover, the PCA protocol is adaptively sound and has a succinct prover.
In fact, our PCA construction (along with the argument presented in Theorem 2)
relies on two general components, non-interactive batch argument for NP and a
rate-1 OT.2 Both components can be constructed under any of the assumptions
mentioned in the theorem, which enables us to obtain our results.
Computational Instance Compression (CIC). An instance compression (IC) is a
very strong and useful tool. Unfortunately, it cannot be constructed under stan-
dard assumptions. Bronfman and Rothblum [5] solved this problem by intro-
ducing computational instance compression or CIC, which is the cryptographic
1 Recall that a succinct PCA has proof size poly(λ, m, log t). In our construction, the
prover’s time and space has a multiplicative factor in that proof size. It remains
open to achieve an additive factor, i.e., O(t) + poly(λ, m, log t) running time and
O(s) + poly(λ, m, log t) space.
2 Both components are formally deﬁned in [13].

348
S. Ben-David
equivalent for instance compression (IC). For a false statement, the new instance
computed by the scheme might be in the language, but it is computationally
infeasible to ﬁnd a witness for the new instance. Bronfman and Rothblum show
that PCA implies CIC. Their CIC is for the class NC and can be realized under
the sub-exponential hardness assumption of the learning with error (LWE) prob-
lem. We combine their CIC construction with Theorem 1 and immediately get
CIC for all NP, under the same hardness assumptions as for our PCA.
Theorem 2 (Informal). Every NP relation has a CIC scheme under any one
of the following assumptions: (1) polynomial hardness of LWE; (2) O(1)-LIN; or
(3) sub-exponential Decisional Diﬃe-Hellman (DDH).
Our main building block in our PCA construction (which in turn, leads to
our results in Theorem 1 and Theorem 2) is a RAM Delegation scheme. How-
ever, existing RAM Delegation schemes in the literature do not meet our speciﬁc
requirements. This leads us to construct a new RAM Delegation scheme.3
RAM Delegation. Eﬃcient veriﬁcation of computation is a fundamental notion
in computer science both in theory and, recently, has been deployed in practice
in cloud services and block-chains. This usage makes veriﬁcation of computation
schemes highly motivated in theory and practice.
In this paper, the computation we wish to delegate is described as a RAM
machine. In a RAM Delegation scheme, a veriﬁer wishes to evaluate the output of
a RAM machine M on an input x without investing the computational resources
required for the computation. Instead, the veriﬁer delegates the computation
to an untrusted prover, which generates the output of the computation y =
M(x) together with a proof Π that supports the correctness of the computation
(given a suitable common reference string crs). We would like to minimize the
computation time for both the prover and the veriﬁer. The prover should run
in time proportional to the original computation (polynomial or even linear in
the actual computation). Ideally, the veriﬁer running time should be sub-linear
(or even poly-logarithmic) in the input size. In order to facilitate sub-linear
computation time, the veriﬁer is given a digest d = Digest(crs, x) of its input
rather than the input itself.
Previous Work on RAM Delegation. Our focus is on publicly-veriﬁable RAM
Delegation schemes that are constructed based on falsiﬁable and standard
assumptions. There has been signiﬁcant research trying to construct such dele-
gation schemes: [14,18] constructions achieve poly(λ, tϵ) veriﬁcation time for any
constant ϵ > 0 under either the standard decisional assumptions on groups with
bilinear maps or the O(1)-LIN assumption in prime-order groups. In contrast,
[8] achieves poly(λ, log t) veriﬁcation time from LWE.
3 The discussion regarding the RAM Delegation scheme necessary for our PCA con-
struction can be found in Sect. 2.2.

Probabilistically Checkable Arguments for All NP
349
Kalai, Lombardi, Vaikuntanathan, and Wichs [13] construct the ﬁrst RAM
Delegation scheme under any of the following assumptions: (1) LWE; (2) O(1)-
LIN; or (3) sub-exponential Decisional Diﬃe-Hellman (DDH). Their scheme has
veriﬁcation time poly(λ, log t). They prove their results using a novel transfor-
mation from any non-trivial batch argument to a highly eﬃcient, strongly sound
RAM Delegation scheme. Roughly, they begin with a non-trivial batch argument
(BARG) and boost it into a highly eﬃcient one. Then they transform the eﬃ-
cient BARG into an eﬃcient RAM Delegation scheme. The [13] construction has
another interesting property, which is strong soundness. Note that their construc-
tion focuses on read-only RAM machines (where the machine’s memory cannot
be modiﬁed).
Our RAM Delegation Scheme. We construct publicly-veriﬁable RAM Delegation
scheme for read-write RAM machines and poly(λ, log t) veriﬁcation time. Our
RAM Delegation is also complexity-preserving, a property left unexplored in pre-
vious work. That is, for any RAM machine that runs in time T and space S, the
honest RAM Delegation prover generates the proof in time that has quasi-linear
dependence in T and space that has linear dependence in S and poly-logarithmic
dependence in T. Our construction uses falsiﬁable assumptions (as mentioned
in Theorem 1), while providing the strong soundness guarantee (as deﬁned in
[13]).4
Theorem 3 (Informal). Under any of the assumptions mentioned in Theorem
1, there exists a publicly-veriﬁable RAM Delegation scheme with strong sound-
ness for any read-write RAM machine. Moreover, the veriﬁer running time is
poly(λ, log t), while the prover runs in time ˜Oλ(t+n) and uses ˜Oλ(w·polylog(t)+
n) space.
Here, t = t(n) is the running time of the RAM machine, and w = w(n) is
the number of distinct memory locations written by the machine.
Here, the ˜Oλ notation accounts for polynomial factors in the security parame-
ter and in the size of the local state of the machine. Note that similar to Theorem
1, our RAM Delegation construction actually relies on two general components,
a non-interactive batch argument for NP and a rate-1 OT. Both of which can be
realized under any of the assumptions mentioned in Theorem 1. For the formal
theorem statement, please refer to the full version.
Observe that w may be much smaller than both the running time and
the total read-write memory of the RAM machine. On close inspection of the
construction of [13], their prover runs in time at least ˜Oλ(t2 + n) and space
˜Oλ(t + n). In comparison, the prover of Theorem 3, when applied to read-only
RAM machines, has running time ˜Oλ(t + n) and uses ˜Oλ(polylog(t) + n) space.
4 Both the standard soundness and strong soundness notions are suﬃcient for obtain-
ing our results. However, the strong soundness guarantee may be useful for other
applications.

350
S. Ben-David
Future Work on Eﬃcient RAM Delegation Prover. Our current research on
RAM delegation schemes has yielded an eﬃcient prover, where the running time
has a quasi-linear dependency on the running time of the original RAM com-
putation, and the space has a quasi-linear linear dependency on the space of
the original RAM computation. Achieving linear dependency on the original
computation complexity remains an open question.
Future Work on PCAs. In [5], Bronfman and Rothblum introduced the impli-
cations of PCAs on the hardness of approximation. They demonstrated that
if P ̸= NP and there exists a publicly veriﬁable constant-query PCA for SAT,
then there exists ϵ > 0 for which there is no polynomial-time algorithm solving
approximate MaxSATϵ5. The hardness of MaxSATϵ is expected, as it follows from
the PCP theorem. The interesting aspect is that we can get this result using the
notion of PCAs. We believe that our new results on succinct PCAs for NP can
be useful in achieving new hardness of approximation results.
One potential direction suggested by Bronfman and Rothblum is the hardness
of approximation in Fine-Grained complexity. Previously, PCPs were used to
demonstrate the hardness of approximation in the Fine-Grained complexity of
problems in P [1,6], where a signiﬁcant barrier to achieving the result was the
size of the PCP proofs. We believe that the use of succinct PCAs (instead of
PCPs) may have new implications in this ﬁeld.
2
Our Techniques
In this section, we begin by introducing our techniques for constructing a PCA
scheme. Initially, the prover in the PCA construction is not succinct. Once we
achieve our PCA results, we’ll describe how to reﬁne our implementation to
ensure a succinct prover.
To elaborate further, the primary tool for our PCA construction is RAM
Delegation scheme. We start by presenting a generic PCA construction from
RAM Delegation scheme (Sect. 2.1). This construction leads us to obtain a PCA
protocol for all NP that is (1) succinct and (2) has constant query complexity.
The construction relies on the assumption that there exists a succinct RAM
Delegation scheme for all deterministic read-write RAM machines, where here,
succinct means that the proof size and veriﬁcation time are poly-logarithmic in
the original computation. It is important to note that, at this stage, the resulting
PCA protocol does not have a succinct prover.
In Sect. 2.2, we describe how to construct the required succinct RAM
Delegation scheme for any deterministic read-write RAM machines. The RAM
Delegation scheme is also publicly veriﬁable and adaptively sound, which implies
5 In the MaxSAT problem, the goal is to ﬁnd an assignment that maximizes the number
of satisﬁed clauses in a formula. In the approximate MaxSATϵ problem, the goal is
to ﬁnd an assignment that is ϵ close to maximizing the number of satisﬁed clauses
in a formula.

Probabilistically Checkable Arguments for All NP
351
the same properties for our PCA scheme. The RAM Delegation scheme, and
accordingly, the PCA scheme can be realized under any of the following assump-
tions: (1) polynomial hardness of LWE, (2) O(1)-LIN, or (3) sub-exponential
Decisional Diﬃe-Hellman (DDH).
Subsequently, in Sect. 2.3, we delve into the implementation details of the
same RAM Delegation protocol introduced in Sect. 2.2, with a speciﬁc emphasis
on achieving a complexity-preserving prover. Integrating this RAM Delegation
protocol into our PCA construction naturally leads us to obtain a PCA with a
succinct prover.
2.1
Adaptive PCA for All NP
The primary objective of this subsection is to provide an overview of our PCA
construction. Here, our focus is on constructing a PCA protocol for all NP that
is (1) succinct and (2) has constant query complexity. Recall that a succinct
PCA has a proof size that is polynomial in the witness size, and constant query
complexity indicates that the veriﬁer makes a constant number of queries to the
proof. Note that here, the resulting PCA prover is not succinct.
While achieving either succinctness or constant query complexity separately
might be relatively straightforward, the challenge arises when we aim to achieve
both properties simultaneously. In what follows, we begin with an overview of
this challenge. Then, we describe the Bronfman and Rothblum [5] construction,
which successfully addresses this challenge and results in a PCA protocol for any
problem in NC. Finally, we describe our PCA construction that achieves both
properties simultaneously and provides a PCA protocol for any relation in NP.
An Attempt to Balance Succinctness and Constant Query Complexity. Succinct-
ness alone can be achieved by simply sending the entire witness to the veriﬁer.
The diﬃculty arises when we aim to combine this with constant query com-
plexity. A standard approach would be to encode the witness using an error-
correcting code and add a probabilistically checkable proof of proximity (PCPP)
certifying that the NP veriﬁer would have accepted had it read the entire wit-
ness. In such construction, for any instance x ∈{0, 1}n and witness w ∈{0, 1}m,
the proof is: π = (Enc(w), ΠPCPP).
This PCA construction has constant query complexity, but the proof size is
poly(n, m), while our goal is to have the proof size sub-linear in n. This large
proof size follows from the fact that known PCPPs have a proof length that
depends polynomially on the running time of the computation that the PCPP
certiﬁes (as described in [3]). In our case, the computation being certiﬁed is the
NP veriﬁer, whose running time is at least linear in n.
This issue can be resolved by replacing the NP veriﬁer with an alternative
veriﬁer that has a signiﬁcantly smaller running time. In our case, as well as in
the previous construction by Bronfman and Rothblum, the new veriﬁer will run
in time poly(log n, m).

352
S. Ben-David
The Bronfman and Rothblum PCA. Bronfman and Rothblum [5] constructed the
ﬁrst publicly veriﬁable succinct PCA. Their construction uses the idea described
above of replacing the NP veriﬁer with a more eﬃcient one. In order to replace
the NP veriﬁer, [5] used SNARGs for P (PSNARGs). PSNARG schemes are
powerful tools that allow us to verify a long deterministic computation in time
that is sub-linear in the computation. Essentially, they apply a PSNARG to
the NP veriﬁer’s computation, thus reducing the veriﬁcation time. The resulting
PCPP proof is π = (Enc(w || ΠPSNARG), ΠPCPP).
Unfortunately, this is not enough. The PSNARG veriﬁer needs to at least
read its input, which in our case is of size n + m (the NP veriﬁer, when thought
of as a P computation, takes as input x′ = (x, w)). The PCPP proof size in
this construction is again poly(n, m). To solve this problem, [5] used a speciﬁc
type of PSNARG called a holographic PSNARG. In a holographic PSNARG the
veriﬁer is given oracle access to an (honestly generated) encoding of the input
(rather than input explicitly). This enables the veriﬁer to run in sub-linear time
in the input size.
This still does not suﬃce, since PCPPs are not designed for computations
involving an oracle. To cope with this issue, they added a pre-processing phase
that hashes the encoding of the input. For this ﬁnal phase to work, they need a
PSNARG with even more speciﬁc requirements. For example, the prover needs
to know which are the input locations that the veriﬁer is going to query. These
requirements limit [5] to using a very speciﬁc PSNARG construction due to [12].
The use of this PSNARG limits their PCA to work only for NC computations,
and under sub-exponential LWE.
We take a diﬀerent approach to lowering the veriﬁer running time. Rather
than working with PSNARGs, we use a RAM Delegation scheme. This enables
us to get around the limitations of Bronfman and Rothblum’s PCA.
RAM Delegation. Before delving into the details of our PCA construction, we
introduce the concept of a RAM Delegation scheme. It is worth noting that
RAM Delegation schemes can have diﬀerent deﬁnitions in the literature. For our
construction, we adopt the notion introduced in [13] and extend it to apply to
read-write RAM machines.
In more detail, we consider read-write RAM computations where the machine
is given its input in read-only memory and has access to a large read-write
memory initially ﬁlled with zeros. It can access both memory modules at an
arbitrary location with unit cost. To allow for later ﬂexibility, we think of the
input to the RAM machine as a pair x = (ximp, xexp), where we call ximp the
implicit input (which we think of as large), and xexp the explicit input (which
we think of as small).
In a RAM Delegation scheme, the prover wants to convince the veriﬁer that
M(x) = y for some RAM machine M, input x, and output y. In the completeness
experiment, the prover is given as input a common reference string crs and an
input x = (ximp, xexp). The prover generates a proof Π and sends it to the
veriﬁer. The veriﬁer is given as input the crs, a digest of the implicit input d ←

Probabilistically Checkable Arguments for All NP
353
Digest(crs, ximp), the explicit input xexp, and an output y. The veriﬁer outputs
accept or reject. The soundness guarantee implies that it is computationally hard
to generate (M, x = (ximp, xexp), π, y) such that M(x) ̸= y, and yet the veriﬁer
accepts the proof with respect to d ←Digest(crs, ximp).
For the eﬃciency parameters, we want the proof size and the veriﬁcation time
to be sub-linear in the size of the (large) implicit input ximp and sub-linear in the
running time t of the original RAM computation. To capture this notation, we
deﬁne a RAM Delegation scheme as succinct if both the proof size and veriﬁcation
time are at most poly(λ, |xexp|, log |ximp|, log t).
PCA from RAM Delegation. We turn back to constructing PCAs. Recall that our
starting point is a proof of the following structure: π = (Enc(w), ΠPCPP), where
Enc(w) is an encoding of the witness, and ΠPCPP is a PCPP proof certifying
that the NP veriﬁer would have accepted had it read the entire witness w. Our
goal is to replace the NP veriﬁer with a more eﬃcient computation. For this
purpose, we will use a succinct RAM Delegation scheme, in which the veriﬁer
runs in poly-logarithmic time in the input size (given a digest of the input).
Fix a relation R in NP, and a RAM machine M that veriﬁes the relation.
Given an instance x and a witness w, consider a RAM Delegation scheme certi-
fying that M(ximp, xexp) = 1, where ximp = x is the NP instance, and xexp = w is
the NP witness. Observe that the running time of the succinct RAM Delegation
veriﬁer is poly(λ, m, log n) given the digest of x, where m refers to the witness
size and n refers to the instance size.
We can now describe our PCA construction:
– Prover:
1. Compute the following
1.1 ΠRAM, the RAM Delegation proof certifying M(x, w) = 1.
1.2 d, the digest of the input x.
1.3 ΠPCPP, the PCPP proof certifying that after decoding Enc(w || ΠRAM)
the RAM Delegation veriﬁer accepts given (d, w, ΠRAM).
2. Output Π = (Enc(w | ΠRAM), ΠPCPP).
– Veriﬁer:
1. Compute d, the digest of the input x.
2. Check that the PCPP veriﬁer accepts.
This construction achieves constant query complexity directly by the PCPP
scheme. To establish succinctness, we need to bound the size of the proof, where
Π = (Enc(w || ΠRAM), ΠPCPP). By the running time vt = poly(λ, m, log n) of
the RAM Delegation veriﬁer, we get that |ΠRAM| ≤poly(λ, m, log n). Recall
that a PCPP proof is of size polynomial in the original computation. In our
case, this is the computation of the RAM Delegation veriﬁer. Therefore, |Π| ≤
poly(vt) + poly(λ, m, log n) ≤poly(λ, m, log n). Overall, we get that the con-
struction achieves both succinctness and constant query complexity.

354
S. Ben-David
Regarding the publicly veriﬁable and adaptively sound properties of the PCA
scheme, these properties naturally follow when the RAM Delegation scheme is
publicly veriﬁable and adaptively sound.
We now turn to construct our RAM Delegation scheme.
2.2
RAM Delegation
In this subsection, we outline the construction of the succinct RAM Delegation
scheme essential for our PCA construction discussed in Sect. 2.1. By incorporat-
ing the resulting RAM Delegation scheme into our PCA construction, we achieve
publicly veriﬁable succinct PCA with constant query complexity in the adaptive
security setting under various standard assumptions. However, it is important to
note that this PCA prover is not yet succinct. We will address the succinctness
of the prover in Sect. 2.3 by constructing complexity-preserving RAM Delegation
. The RAM Delegation notion we use in our PCA construction is the notion pre-
sented in [13]. This notion diﬀerentiates itself from standard RAM Delegation
by splitting the input into explicit and implicit components, where the explicit
input is considered small and the implicit input is considered large. The veri-
ﬁer receives the explicit input in the clear and obtains only the digest of the
implicit input. This distinction is reﬂected in the soundness deﬁnition, which we
inherently use for proving security for our PCA construction. However, the RAM
Delegation construction presented in [13] is not suﬃcient for our PCA construc-
tion as it speciﬁcally applies to read-only RAM machines.
There are two immediate potential approaches for achieving construction for
read-write RAM machines under the required notion. We could modify exist-
ing constructions that apply to read-write RAM machines [8,14,18] to support
explicit and implicit input. This can be achieved relatively easily. However, as
we will see in Sect. 2.3, updating the RAM Delegation construction from [13] to
apply to any read-write RAM machines allows us to leverage the speciﬁc struc-
ture of the prover in that construction to achieve a complexity-preserving prover.
Ultimately, this leads to the desired succinct prover for our PCA scheme.
Moreover, extending the construction in [14] maintains a stronger soundness
security notion than achieved in previous RAM Delegation constructions.6 Addi-
tionally, it provides a RAM Delegation scheme for any read-write RAM machine
assuming two generic components. That is, a batch argument scheme and rate-1
OT (as formally deﬁned in [13]). These components can, in turn, be constructed
from either one of the following assumptions: (1) polynomial hardness of LWE; (2)
O(1)-LIN; or (3) sub-exponential Decisional Diﬃe-Hellman (DDH), and achieve
our PCA construction under those assumptions.
In what follows we describe the techniques we used for constructing our RAM
Delegation scheme. The main tool that we use is a somewhere extractable batch
argument (BARG) scheme.
6 Our construction maintains the same strong soundness guarantee as deﬁned in [13].
The weaker notion is suﬃcient for our construction. See Deﬁnition 6 for the formal
deﬁnition of both security notions.

Probabilistically Checkable Arguments for All NP
355
Somewhere Extractable Batch Arguments (seBARGs). In a batch argument
scheme (BARG), the goal is to eﬃciently verify a batch of k NP statements.
The prover is given a batch of k NP statements x1, . . . , xk along with their
corresponding witnesses w1, . . . , wk, and sends a short proof to the veriﬁer. We
want the proof size and veriﬁcation time to be signiﬁcantly smaller than the
total size of the witnesses. Speciﬁcally, the main interest is to have a sub-linear
(or ideally, poly-logarithmic) dependence in the number of statements.
Our construction actually uses a stronger primitive called somewhere
extractable batch argument (seBARG). A BARG is said to be somewhere
extractable if, for some (hidden) pre-choice of i, given a trapdoor to the crs
and an accepting proof, it is possible to extract a witness wi for the i-th NP
statement.
We upgrade any BARG to be seBARG using somewhere extractable hash with
local opening (SEH). An SEH family is a family of hash functions with local
openings where, given a hashed value and a suitable trapdoor for the i-th bit
(generated during the SEH setup), one can eﬃciently extract the i-th bit of
the hashed input. Upgrading BARG to be seBARG using SEH can be done by
ﬁrst committing to all the witnesses using the SEH, and then modifying the NP
statements to include consistency with the hashed value. In our construction,
we replace BARG with seBARG without loss of generality since we also use SEH
explicitly (as previously done implicitly in [8,16], and explicitly in [13]).
Our RAM Delegation Scheme. Our RAM Delegation construction extends the
Kalai, Lombardi, Vaikuntanathan, and Wichs [13] construction which, in turn,
is inspired by the transformations of [8,16]. To prove that M(x) = y using a
BARG scheme, [13] employs a step-by-step approach, dividing the computation
into smaller steps. The read-only RAM machine M starts with an initial state
st0. At each step i ∈[t], it reads one bit from the input x at some location ji
and transitions from state sti to state sti+1. The BARG proof should certify that
each computation step is performed correctly.
In more detail, for computing the proof, the prover in [13] ﬁrst computes the
digest of the input d ←Digest(x) (using a hash family with local openings) and
a somewhere extractable hash comst ←SEH.Hash(st1, . . . , stt). Then, the prover
constructs a seBARG proof for the following batch NP statement: For each i ∈[t],
(1) the values (sti−1, sti) are consistent with comst, (2) the bit x[ji] is consistent
with d, (3) the machine transformation sti−1 →sti consist with the bit x[ji], (4)
if i = t then check that stt is an accepting state. The witness wi includes the
values (sti−1, sti, x[ji]) along with local opening certifying the consistency of the
values with their digest.
Moving forward to constructing read-write RAM Delegation, in addition to
the input and the intermediate states, to describe one computation step of a
read-write RAM machine, we need more information. The read-write machine
M starts with an initial state st0 and an all-zero memory D0. Then, at each
step, the machine reads one bit from the input, reads one bit from the memory,

356
S. Ben-David
and writes one bit to the memory. The state of the machine is then transformed
from (sti−1, Di−1) to (sti, Di).
One possible strategy is to reconsider the deﬁnition of the machine’s state to
include both the local state and the memory: st′
i = (st1, Di). Then we can use the
same algorithm in [13]. The witness, wi, is now the values (st′
i−1, st′
i, x[ji]) along
with local opening certifying the consistency of the values with their digest. How-
ever, incorporating the memory into the state deﬁnition introduces a challenge
in terms of proof size. The size of the state includes the description of the entire
memory, which can be arbitrarily large (even exceeding the computation time
t). Consequently, the size of one witness, and accordingly the resulting seBARG
proof, may become too large (larger than the computation itself).
We combine techniques from [8,14] to overcome this obstacle and gain suc-
cinctness again. Instead of directly computing comst ←SEH.Hash(st′
1, . . . , st′
t),
we introduce an intermediate step. First, we compute the Merkle roots rt0, . . . , rtt
of the memory states D0, . . . , Dt. These Merkle roots serve as compact repre-
sentations of the entire memory throughout the computation. Next, we compute
com ←SEH.Hash((st1, rt1), . . . , (stt, rtt)). Our batch NP statement is now: For
each i ∈[t], (1) the values ((sti−1, rti−1), (sti, rti)) are consistent with com, (2)
the bit x[ji] is consistent with d, (3) the bit Di−1[k] is consistent with rti−1,
(4) assuming the bit x[ji], Di−1[k] has been read, the machine transformation is
(sti−1, rti−1) →(sti, rti), and (5) if i = t then check that stt is an accepting state.
The witness wi includes the values ((sti−1, rti−1), (sti, rti) , x[ji]) along with local
opening certifying the consistency of the values with their digest, and the proof
that the transformation rti−1 →rti is correct.
Our RAM Delegation construction is then:
– Prover:
1. Compute the following:
1.1 d, the digest of the input.
1.2 (st0, D0), . . . , (stt, Dt), the states of the machine through the compu-
tation.
1.3 rt0, . . . , rtt, the Merkle roots of the values D0, . . . , Dt.
1.4 com, the SEH of ((st1, rt1) , . . . , (stt, rtt)), along with correlated open-
ings to each one of the values.
1.5 w1, . . . , wt, the witnesses for the NP statements.
1.6 Π, the seBARG proof for the NP statements (using w1, . . . , wt).
2. Output (Π, com).
– Veriﬁer:
1. Given the digest d, check that the BARG proof accepts (relative to the
hashed value com).
Our analysis is based on the analysis in [13]. However, in our case, we need to
pay special attention to the proof of each computation step, verifying eﬃciently
that the transformation ((sti−1, rti−1) →(sti, rti)) is done correctly.7
7 The formal and full analysis appears in the full version of this work.

Probabilistically Checkable Arguments for All NP
357
Note that the space complexity of the prover is at least ˜Oλ(t + S + n) since
the prover simulates the RAM machine that uses space of size S, and it holds
a list of t elements in the memory. Moreover, the running time of the prover is
at least ˜Oλ(t2 + t · S + n) since it computes the hash of the memory at each
step (which takes time t · S), and in step 1.4 it computes the t openings to com
(which takes t time for each opening). In the following subsection, we improve
the time and space complexity of the prover.
2.3
Complexity-Preserving RAM Delegation
Up to this point, we constructed a publicly veriﬁable succinct PCA with con-
stant query complexity for all NP in the adaptive security setting. However, the
PCA prover is not yet succinct. The running time of our PCA prover (described
in Sect. 2.2) is dominated by the running time of the RAM Delegation prover.
Ultimately, improving the running time of the RAM Delegation prover to be
complexity-preserving results in a PCA scheme with a succinct prover.8
This subsection presents an eﬃcient implementation of the RAM Delegation
prover introduced in Sect. 2.2, that achieves complexity-preserving RAM
Delegation scheme.
The implementation of the prover presented in Sect. 2.2 demonstrates a time
complexity of ˜Oλ(t2 + t · S + n), and space complexity of at least ˜Oλ(t + S + n),
where S denotes the size of the large read-write memory used by the machine.
Here, ˜Oλ notation accounts for polynomial factors in the security parameter and
in the size of the machine’s local state. For simplicity, in what follows, we will
focus on a speciﬁc ineﬃcient part of the prover’s computation and see how to
improve both the running time and space complexity. By applying the same
approach to other parts of the computation, we can achieve time complexity
˜Oλ(t + n) and a space complexity ˜Oλ(w · polylog(t) + n), where w is the number
of distinct memory locations written by the RAM machine.
For this high-level overview, we are speciﬁcally targeting a simpliﬁed version
of the prover, with a focus on enhancing selected steps. These steps include the
computation of:
1. (st1, . . . , stt) - the machine’s states list through the process.
2. (com, ρ1, . . . , ρt) - a commitment to the machine’s states list and the corre-
sponding openings.
3. (w1, . . . , wt) - the witnesses to the NP statement.
4. (Π) - the BARG proof for the NP statements generating given (w1, . . . , wt).
Note that the underlying structure of the commitment scheme in our con-
struction is essentially a Merkle tree. Hence, in the subsequent discussion, we
will refer to the commitment mentioned in step 2 as a Merkle root, and the
openings as the authentication paths within this tree.
We divided the description of our improved implementation into three phases.
The starting point is the naive implementation as described above that achieves
8 See Sect. 4 for the running time analysis.

358
S. Ben-David
˜Oλ(t2 + t · S + n) running time and ˜Oλ(t + S + n) space. Then, in each phase,
we incrementally improve these parameters as follows:
– In phase one, we achieve ˜Oλ(t2 + t · w + n) running time and ˜Oλ(t + w + n)
space.
– In phase two, we achieve ˜Oλ(t·w+n) running time and ˜Oλ(w·polylog(t)+n)
space.
– In phase three, we achieve ˜Oλ(t + n) running time and ˜Oλ(w · polylog(t) + n)
space.
Phase one: Our ﬁrst step towards complexity-preserving is to reduce the large
read-write space factor and achieve ˜Oλ(t2 + t · w + n) running time and ˜Oλ(t +
w + n) space.
For generating the RAM proof, the prover is required to at least simulate the
RAM computation. It is important to note that even though the machine might
have access to a large read-write memory, it might only write to a small number
of locations. In other words, the memory might be sparse. In our construction, we
take advantage of this property by emulating the machine’s read-write memory
using a sparse hash tree scheme.
Sparse Hash Tree. A sparse hash tree scheme is a data structure that represents
a Merkle tree, particularly suited for sparse Merkle trees, meaning that most of
the leaf nodes are empty. The sparsity of the tree enables eﬃcient simulation of
the tree, with time complexity proportional to the tree’s depth and the number
of non-empty elements, rather than being proportional to the entire tree’s size.
Speciﬁcally, we construct a sparse hash tree where each operation takes time
and space that is linear in the number of non-zero elements.
The RAM machine starts with all zero memory and writes to at most w
distinct locations in the memory, which allows us to emulate the read-write
memory of size S with ˜Oλ(w) space. This naturally results in a time complexity
of ˜Oλ(t2 + t · w + n) and a space complexity of ˜Oλ(t + w + n).
Phase two: In what follows, we reduce the running time to ˜Oλ(t · w + n) and
space to ˜Oλ(w · polylog(t) + n). For that purpose, the focus of this phase is
to maintain a running time that is quasi-linear in t, and simultaneously, avoid
storing t elements in the memory.
Initially, our RAM Delegation prover stores the entire computation history
(st1, . . . , stt) in memory, leading to a memory overhead of ˜Oλ(t). Instead, we
construct a stream of the following data: (st1, . . . , stt). However, simply creating
a stream of states is not suﬃcient, as we need to access this information multi-
ple times for various computations.9 Same challenges also apply for the list of
openings (ρ1, . . . , ρt) and for the list of witnesses (w1, . . . , wt). To address this
issue, we introduce the new notion of rewindable stream.
9 Note that naively traversing the entire stream from the beginning for each access to
sti would result in an overhead of at least ˜Oλ(t2) running time.

Probabilistically Checkable Arguments for All NP
359
Rewindable Stream. A stream is a sequence of elements that are accessed incre-
mentally over time. In our context, we introduce the concept of a rewindable
stream, which refers to the ability to return to a speciﬁc point in the stream
and continue generating the stream from that point onward. In more detail, a
rewindable stream allows a client to eﬃciently create a backup of the stream’s
state at any time and later restore the stream’s state to that speciﬁc time point.
In what follows, we describe how to (1) construct rewindable stream of states
(st1, . . . , stt), (2) compute the commitment com to the state’s list based on the
stream of states, (3) compute a rewindable stream of openings (ρ1, . . . , ρt) using
the stream of states, and (4) generate the BARG proof in step 4 based on a
stream of witnesses (which is essentially the stream of openings).
Rewindable Stream of States. The computation of a RAM machine progresses
in a step-by-step manner. Given a conﬁguration of the machine, which includes
its state and the contents of its read-write memory, the next conﬁguration can
be computed eﬃciently. Leveraging this structure, we can design a rewindable
stream where the states of the stream correspond to an intermediate conﬁgura-
tion of the RAM machine. For the backup operation, we simply copy the entire
intermediate conﬁguration of the RAM machine. This process can be imple-
mented using ˜Oλ(w) time and space, as we use a sparse hash tree to emulate the
machine’s memory.
In what follows we explain how to compute the commitment com to the
state’s list based on the stream of states. Recall that we refer to the commitment
in step 2 as a Merkle root, and the openings are the authentication paths in the
Merkle tree. This brings us to the broader challenge of eﬃciently computing a
Merkle root when provided with rewindable stream access to the data.
Computing the Commitment com. Our task is to eﬃciently compute Merkle root
given a rewindable stream access to the data. It is well-known that computing
a Merkle root can be done in quasi-linear time while storing only a logarithmic
number of elements in memory (as proved in [17]). A careful look at the algo-
rithm will show that this can be done using a single pass over the data, allowing
us to use the stream of states to implement step 2 while storing only log t ele-
ments in the memory, and in time ˜Oλ(t · log t).
We have explained how to eﬃciently compute the commitment com, and
reduce the space complexity required for this operation. Now, we will describe
how to eﬃciently construct a rewindable stream of openings. Both steps together
ensure the time and space eﬃciency of step 2.
Rewindable Stream of Openings. Recall that each opening to com is essentially an
authentication path in a Merkle tree. An authentication path can be computed
in a quasi-linear time while storing only a logarithmic number of elements in
memory (as proved in [17]). We can use the algorithm to generate a stream of t

360
S. Ben-David
authentication paths while storing only log t elements in the memory. However,
each authentication path is computed in time ˜Oλ(t·log t·w), which concludes with
an overall running time of ˜Oλ(t2 · log t · w) for computing all the authentication
paths.
Our next challenge is to reduce the running time of the stream. Instead of gen-
erating each authentication path authi+1 from scratch, our algorithm leverages
the information in the previous authentication path authi. An authentication
path represents the path from a leaf to the root and consists of the sibling’s val-
ues encountered along the way. By exploiting the concept of the lowest common
ancestor, we observe that the leaves (i, i+1) share the same path from the lowest
common ancestor to the root and, therefore, also share the same siblings from
the lowest common ancestor to the root. Consequently, for the lowest common
ancestor of height h, these two authentication paths have (log t −h) identical
values. With this insight, we can split the computation of Next into two steps.
The ﬁrst step will take the relevant data from the previous authentication path
authi, and the second step will compute the authentication path within the sub-
tree of height h. By utilizing the rewind property of the stream, which allows us
to start from a speciﬁc point in the stream, the second step will take ˜Oλ(2h·h·w)
time rather than ˜Oλ(t · log2 t · w).
This approach achieves a running time of ˜Oλ(t · log2 t · w) for one pass over
the entire stream. In other words, in the amortized case, the running time is
˜Oλ(log2 t · w).10
To eﬃciently compute the list of witnesses (step 3), we construct a rewindable
stream of witnesses that contain the machine’s states and the corresponding
openings to com by simply wrapping the rewindable streams we constructed.
The following step computes the BARG proof eﬃciently using only rewindable
stream access to the witnesses, thereby avoiding the need for explicit access to
the witness list.
Computing the BARG Proof. For this step, we need to construct an eﬃcient
BARG with stream rewind access to the witnesses. For t instances, the BARG
prover will run in time ˜O(t · |w| + t) · poly(λ), and use space of size ˜O(|w| ·
polylog(t) + t) · poly(λ). Moreover, the prover will access each element in the
stream at most polylog(t) times. Note that the bounded access to the stream
will allow us to start with a stream that is eﬃcient only in the amortized case,
and yet conclude with ˜O(t · |w| + t) · poly(λ) time complexity.
We use the BARG scheme constructed in [13], but we suggest an alternative
implementation for the prover. The implementation will use the same techniques
as described above for the RAM Delegation eﬃcient prover (for the formal con-
struction and analysis, please refer to the full version).
10 More detailed analysis of the algorithm’s eﬃciency appears in the full version of this
work.

Probabilistically Checkable Arguments for All NP
361
Overall, we reduced the t2 overhead in the running time and t space overhead.
This leads us to ˜Oλ(t · w + t + n) running time and ˜Oλ(w · polylog(t) + n) space
complexity.
Phase three : As a ﬁnal step toward complexity-preserving, in this phase, we
achieve ˜Oλ(t + n) running time and ˜Oλ(w · polylog(t) + n) space.
To achieve this, we implement the rewindable stream of states in a way that
each operation in the stream, including backup, restore, and advancing to the
next element, only takes ˜Oλ(polylog(t)) time, rather than ˜Oλ(w ·polylog(t)). By
following a similar analysis as in Phase 2, but with the improved stream running
time, we attain the necessary complexity parameters for the prover.
The challenge arises in the stream backup operation that requires copying the
entire memory of the RAM machine. Here, instead of copying the entire memory,
we use a data structure that represents the RAM memory and allows for eﬃcient
backup operation.
Memory Scheme. A memory scheme is a data structure that represents a mem-
ory of a deterministic program, allowing for reading, writing, backing up, and
restoration of the memory.
We construct a memory scheme, where each operation, including backups,
takes time that is poly-logarithmic in the size of the original memory. This
construction allows us to implement the rewindable stream of states eﬃciently,
and consecutively, to achieve our desirable complexity parameters.
3
Preliminaries
Notations. We denote the set of all positive integers up to n as [n] := {1, ..., n}.
For any two string x, y ∈Σ∗over alphabet Σ, we denote (a || b) to be the
concatenation of the two strings. The relative distance between strings x, y ∈Σℓ
over alphabet Σ is Δ(x, y) := |{i | xi̸=yi}|
ℓ
. The relative distance between x ∈Σℓ
and a non-empty set S ⊆Σℓis Δ(x, S) := miny∈S(Δ(x, y)).
3.1
Probabilistically Checkable Proofs
A probabilistically checkable proof (PCP) is a special format for writing a proof
that can be veriﬁed by reading only a few bits. The following deﬁnition is taken
from [5].
Deﬁnition 1 (PCP). A probabilistically checkable proof (PCP) for language L ∈
NTIME(t) consists of a poly(t) prover PCP.P, that gets as input the instance x
as well as a witness w, and a poly(|x|, log t) time oracle machine PCP.V, that
recieves x as input as well as an oracle to a proof string π.
Completness. For every (x, w) ∈R it holds that:
Pr

PCP.Vπ(x) = 1 | π ←PCP.P(x, w)

= 1.

362
S. Ben-David
Soundness. For every x /∈L, and for every oracle ˜π it holds that
Pr

PCP.V˜π(x) = 1

< 1
2
The length of π as a function of |x| and |w| is called the proof length. In order
to verify its oracle, the veriﬁer PCP.V tosses r = r(|x|) random coins, and makes
q = q(|x|) queries to π. The functions r and q are called the randomness com-
plexity and query complexity, respectively.
Theorem 4 ([2]). Every L ∈NP has a PCP with constant query complexity
and logarithmic randomness complexity.
Succinct PCPs. A PCP for L ∈NP is said to be succinct [10,15] if there exists a
polynomial p (which may depend on L), such that for every (x, w) ∈R it holds
that |π| = p(|w|, log(|x|)), for π = PCP.P(x, w).
3.2
Probabilistically Checkable Proofs of Proximity
In what follows, we deﬁne probabilistically checkable proofs of proximity (PCPP).
The deﬁnition is taken from [5].
PCPPs, much like PCPs, allows the veriﬁer to read only a small number of
bits from the proof. However, the key distinction between PCPs and PCPPs is
that a PCPP veriﬁer also reads only a small number of bits from its input, and is
therefore, only required to reject inputs that are far from its language. In what
follows, we deﬁne PCPP for pair languages.
Pair Languages. A language L is said to be a pair language if L ⊆{0, 1}∗×
{0, 1}∗. Given instance x, the projection of L on x is the set L(x) = {y | (x, y) ∈
L}.
Deﬁnition 2 (PCPP). A probabilistically checkable proof of proximity (PCPP)
for a pair language L ∈DTIME(t) consists of a poly(t) prover PCPP.P, that gets
as input the pair (x, y) and a poly(|x|, log t) time oracle machine PCPP.V, that
recieves x as an explicit input, oracle access to implicit input y, and oracle access
to a proof string π. The veriﬁer also recieves (explicitly) a proximity parameter
δ > 0. For proximity parameter δ ∈[0, 1] and input (x, y) the following holds:
Completness. For every (x, y) ∈L it holds that
Pr

PCPP.Vy,π(x, |y|, |π|, δ) = 1 | π ←PCPP.P(x, y)

= 1.
Soundness. For every Δ(y, L(x)) ≥δ, and for every oracle ˜π it holds that
Pr

PCPP.Vy,˜π(x, |y|, |π|, δ) = 1

< 1
2

Probabilistically Checkable Arguments for All NP
363
The length of π as a function of |x| and |y| is called the proof length. In order
to verify its oracles, the veriﬁer PCPP.V tosses r = r(|x|, |y|, δ) random coins,
and makes q = q(|x|, |y|, δ) queries to y and π. The functions r and q are called
the randomness complexity and query complexity, respectively.
Theorem 5 ([3]). Let L be a pair language, with instances (x, y), computable
in time t = t(|x|, |y|), and let δ ∈[0, 1]. There exists a PCPP for L with respect
to proximity parameter δ, with query complexity O(1/δ), randomness complexity
O(log t
δ), and proof length poly(t). The veriﬁer runs in time polylog(t, 1
δ ) and
the prover runs in time poly(t).
3.3
Probabilistically Checkable Arguments
In what follows, we deﬁne probabilistically checkable argument (PCA). The def-
inition is taken from [5].
Much like a PCPs, PCAs are a special format in which the veriﬁer only has
to read a few bits from the proof. Unlike PCPs, in which any proof for a false
statement is rejected with high probability, for PCAs, accepting proofs may exist,
but we require that it is computationally hard to ﬁnd them.
Deﬁnition 3 (Publicly-Veriﬁable PCA.). A publicly-veriﬁable probabilisti-
cally checkable argument (PCA) for an NP relation R is a triplet of poly(n, m, λ)-
time algorithms (PCA.G, PCA.P, PCA.V), with deterministic PCA.P and proba-
bilistic PCA.G and PCA.V, such that for every instance length n and witness
length m the following holds:
Completness. For every x ∈{0, 1}n and w ∈{0, 1}m, such that (x, w) ∈R,
every λ ∈N, and every crs ←PCA.G(1n, 1m, 1λ) it holds that:
Pr
PCA.Vπ(crs, x) = 1 | π ←PCA.P(crs, x, w)
= 1.
Computational Adaptive Soundness. For every λ ∈N, and poly-size
adversary ˜P, with all but negl(λ) probability over the choice of crs ←
PCA.G(1n, 1m, 1λ) it holds that:
Pr
PCA.V˜π(crs, x) = 1
R(x) = ∅
 (x, ˜π) ←˜P(crs)

< 1
2.
The length of π, as a function of n, m, and λ is called the proof length. In
order to verify its oracle, the veriﬁer PCA.V tosses r = r(n, m, λ) random coins,
and makes q = q(n, m, λ) queries to π. The functions r and q are called the
randomness complexity and query complexity, respectively.
Note that in Deﬁnition 3 we distinguish between the randomness used for
generating the crs and the randomness of the veriﬁer. This separation allows us
to deﬁne the crs as “good” with overwhelming probability while the veriﬁer only
guarantees constant soundness (since the veriﬁer only makes a small number of
queries).

364
S. Ben-David
Succinct PCAs. A PCA for an NP relation R, which is decidable in some time t =
t(n, m) ≥n, is said to be succinct if the PCA proof is of length poly(m, λ, log t),
where poly refers to a ﬁxed universal polynomial (that does not depend on the
relation R).
PCA with a Succinct Prover. We say that a PCA scheme has a succinct prover
if for any NP relation R that can be veriﬁed in time t = poly(n, m) and space
s = poly(n, m), the PCA prover (given the instance and the witness) generates
the proof in time t · poly(λ, m, log t) and space s · poly(λ, m, log t). Here, poly
refers to a ﬁxed universal polynomial (that does not depend on the relation R).
3.4
Batch Arguments
In what follows, we deﬁne batch argument (BARG) scheme for BatchCSAT. The
deﬁnition is taken from [13].
Let CSAT be the following language:
CSAT = {(C, x) | ∃w ∈{0, 1}m s.t. C(x, w) = 1}
where C : {0, 1}n × {0, 1}m →{0, 1} is a Boolean circuit and x ∈{0, 1}n is an
instance.
Let BatchCSAT be the following language:
BatchCSAT = {C | ∃w1, . . . , wk ∈{0, 1}m s.t. ∀i ∈[k], C(i, wi) = 1}
Deﬁnition 4 (BARG for BatchCSAT). A non-interactive batch argument for
the index language BARG = (BARG.G, BARG.P, BARG.V) has the following syn-
tax:
BARG.G(1λ, k, s, i∗) →(crs, td). This is a randomized algorithm that takes as
input a security parameter 1λ, a number of instances k, a circuit size 1s, and
an index i∗∈[k]. It outputs a common reference string crs, and a trapdoor
td.
BARG.P(crs, C, w1, . . . , wk) →π. This is a deterministic poly-time algorithm
that takes as input a common reference string crs, a circuit C : {0, 1}n ×
{0, 1}m →{0, 1} and a witnesses w1, . . . , wk ∈{0, 1}m. It outputs a proof π.
BARG.V(crs, C, π) →{0, 1}. This is a deterministic poly-time algorithm that
takes as input a circuit C : {0, 1}n × {0, 1}m →{0, 1}, and a proof π. It
outputs an acceptance bit.
An L(·, ·)-succinct BARG protocol for the relation R satisﬁes the following
requirements:
L-Succinct. The running time of BARG.G is at most L(k, λ) · poly(s), and the
length of the crs and the proof π is at most L(k, λ) · poly(s).
L-Veriﬁer Eﬃciency. The running time of BARG.V is at most L(k, λ)·poly(s).
Prover Eﬃciency. The running time of BARG.P is polynomial in its input.

Probabilistically Checkable Arguments for All NP
365
Completeness. For every k = k(λ), m = m(λ), s = s(λ) of size at most 2λ,
witnesses w1, . . . , wk ∈{0, 1}m, and circuit C ∈{0, 1}s such that ∀i ∈[k]
C(i, wi) = 1, and for every index i∗∈[k], there exists a negligible function μ
such that for any λ ∈N:
Pr

BARG.V(crs, C, π) = 1

(crs, td) ←BARG.G(1λ, s, k, m, i∗)
π ←BARG.P(crs, C, (w1, . . . , wk))

= 1 −μ(λ).
Indistiguishability. For every poly-size adversary A, and any polynomials k =
k(λ), m = m(λ), s = s(λ), there exists a function μ such that for every λ ∈N
and two indexes i1, i2 ∈[k]:
Pr

A(crs) = 1 | (crs, ·) ←BARG.G(1λ, s, k, m, i1)

−Pr

A(crs) = 1 | (crs, ·) ←BARG.G(1λ, s, k, m, i2)

 ≤μ(λ).
Semi-adaptive Soundness. For every poly-size adversary A, and any polyno-
mials k = k(λ), m = m(λ), s = s(λ), there exists a function μ such that for
every λ ∈N and index i∗∈[k]:
Pr
BARG.V(crs, C, π) = 1
(C, i∗) /∈CSAT

(crs, td) ←BARG.G(1λ, s, k, m, i∗)
(C, π) ←A(crs)

≤μ(λ).
Deﬁnition 5 (seBARG
for
BatchCSAT).
A
somewhere
extractable
non-
interactive batch argument for the index language seBARG = (BARG.G, BARG.P,
BARG.V, BARG.E) is a BARG with the following augmented syntax:
BARG.E(td, C, π) →w∗. This is a deterministic poly-time algorithm that takes
as input a trapdoor key td, a circuit C : {0, 1}n × {0, 1}m →{0, 1}, and a
proof π. It outputs a witness w ∈{0, 1}m.
An L(·, ·)-succinct seBARG protocol for the relation R satisﬁes the following
additional requirements to that of an L(·, ·)-succinct BARG
Somewhere Argument of Knowledge. For every poly-size adversary A, and
any polynomials k = k(λ), m = m(λ), s = s(λ), there exists a function μ such
that for every λ ∈N and index i∗∈[k]:
Pr
⎡
⎣BARG.V(crs, C, π) = 1
C(i∗, w∗) ̸= 1

(crs, td) ←BARG.G(1λ, s, k, m, i∗)
(C, π) ←A(crs)
w∗←BARG.E(td, π)
⎤
⎦≤μ(λ).
The following theorem follows by implying the [13] BARG transformation on
the BARG constructions from [7,8,18].
Theorem 6 ([7,8,13,18]). There exist poly(λ, log k)-succinct index BARGs for
BatchCSAT with somewhere argument of knowledge under any of the following
assumptions:
1. The O(1)-LIN assumption on a pair of cryptographic groups with eﬃcient
bilinear map.
2. The hardness of Learning with errors (LWE) problem against polynomial time
adversaries.
3. The sub-exponential Decisional Diﬃe-Hellman (DDH) assumptions.

366
S. Ben-David
3.5
RAM Delegation
In what follows we deﬁne RAM Delegation scheme for read-write RAM machines.
The deﬁnition is taken from [13].
A read-write RAM machine is modeled as a deterministic machine with ran-
dom access to a read-write memory of large size. In its standard deﬁnition, the
machine has a local state of length logarithmic in the memory size. At each time
step, the machine reads or writes to a single memory cell and updates its local
state. Often it is assumed that the machine has no input outside of its memory.
We say that without loss of generality, the RAM machine has random access
to a read-only memory of size n and a large read-write memory initially ﬁlled
with zeros. We refer to the speciﬁc memory locations where the machine per-
forms write operations as the write-memory of the machine. We denote t(n) as
the number of steps executed by the machine, and w(n) as the size of the write-
memory. The input to the RAM machine is represented as a pair x = (ximp, xexp),
where ximp is large and stored in the random access memory, and xexp is a com-
pact explicit input. Having deﬁned this model, we can now proceed to formalize
the concept of RAM Delegation.
Deﬁnition 6. An
L-succinct
RAM
Delegation
=
(RAM.G, RAM.D,
RAM.P, RAM.V) for a RAM computation M with local state of size Lst ≥
|xexp| + log |ximp|, satisﬁes the following properties:
L-Succinct. The running time of RAM.G is at most L(λ, t) · poly(Lst), and the
length of a proof π is at most L(λ, t) · poly(Lst).
L-Veriﬁer Eﬃciency. The running time of RAM.V is at most L(λ, t)·poly(Lst).
Prover Eﬃciency. The running time of RAM.P is polynomial in its input and
the read-write memory of the machine.
Digest Eﬃciency. The running time of RAM.D is linear in its input, |x| ·
poly(λ).
Completeness. For any λ, n ∈N such that n ≤w(n) ≤t(n) ≤2λ, and for any
x = (ximp, xexp) ∈{0, 1}n such that M(x) halts within t time steps, we have
that
Pr
⎡
⎣RAM.V(crs, dimp, xexp, b, π) = 1
M(x) = 1

crs ←RAM.G(1λ, t)
dimp = RAM.D(crs, ximp)
(b, π) ←RAM.P(crs, ximp, xexp)
⎤
⎦= 1 −negl(λ).
Collistion Resistance of RAM Digest. For any poly-size adversary A, and
polynomial t = t(λ), there exists a negligible function negl(·) such that for
every λ ∈N,
Pr
RAM.D(crs, x) = RAM.D(crs, x′)
x ̸= x′

crs ←RAM.G(1λ, t)
(x, x′) ←A(crs)

≤negl(λ).
Weak Soundness. For any poly-size adversary A, and polynomial t = t(λ),
there exists a negligible function negl(·) such that for every λ ∈N,
Pr
⎡
⎣RAM.V(crs, dimp, xexp, 0, π0) = 1
RAM.V(crs, dimp, xexp, 1, π1) = 1

crs ←RAM.G(1λ, t)
(x = (ximp, xexp), π0, π1) ←A(crs)
dimp ←RAM.D(crs, ximp)
⎤
⎦≤negl(λ).

Probabilistically Checkable Arguments for All NP
367
We say that the RAM Delegation scheme has a strong soundness if it also
satisﬁes the following strong soundness deﬁnition:
Strong Soundness. For any poly-size adversary A, and polynomial t = t(λ), there
exists a negligible function negl(·) such that for every λ ∈N,
Pr
RAM.V(crs, dimp, xexp, 0, π0) = 1
RAM.V(crs, dimp, xexp, 1, π1) = 1

crs ←RAM.G(1λ, t)
(dimp, xexp, π0, π1) ←A(crs)

≤negl(λ).
4
PCA from RAM Delegation
In this section we construct a publicly-veriﬁable and adaptively sound succinct
PCA with constant query complexity for any relation in NP. The construction
is introduced in Sect. 4.1. We then proceed to prove the completeness, eﬃciency,
and soundness of the scheme in Sect. 4.2. By combining these results, we establish
the following theorem.
Theorem 7. Assume there exists a poly(log t, λ)-succinct RAM Delegation with
weak soundness for any read-write RAM machine, then for any relation R in NP
there exists a publicly-veriﬁable and adaptively sound succinct PCA with constant
query complexity.
Furthermore,
– The veriﬁer runs in time n · poly(λ) + polylog(λ, m, log n).
– The veriﬁer has randomness size O(log m + loglogn + log λ).
– The prover runs in time T + n · poly(λ) + poly(λ, m, log n), and uses space
S + n · poly(λ) + poly(λ, m, log n), where T, S are the running time and space
complexity of the RAM Delegation prover.
Where n is the instance size, and m is the witness size.
By combining Theorem 7 with Theorem 9 we get the following corollary.
Corollary 1. For any relation R in NP there exists a publicly-veriﬁable and
adaptively sound succinct PCA with constant query complexity under any of the
following assumptions:
1. The O(1)-LIN assumption on a pair of cryptographic groups with eﬃcient
bilinear map.
2. The hardness of Learning with errors (LWE) problem against polynomial time
adversaries.
3. The sub-exponential Decisional Diﬃe-Hellman (DDH) assumptions.
Furthermore,
– The veriﬁer runs in time n · poly(λ) + polylog(λ, m, log n).
– The veriﬁer has randomness size O(log m + loglogn + log λ).
– The
prover
runs
in
time
T
· poly(λ, m, log T),
and
uses
space
S · poly(λ, m, log T), where T, S are the time and space required for verifying
the language.

368
S. Ben-David
4.1
Construction
In this section, we present the construction of a publicly-veriﬁable and adaptively
sound succinct PCA with constant query complexity for any relation in NP.
We begin by introducing relevant notations that will be used throughout the
construction.
Notations. Fix a relation R in NP. Let M ′ be a deterministic Turing machine
that can verify whether an instance of size n and a witness of size m belong to
R in time t = poly(n). We denote M as a RAM machine that, given an implicit
input ximp = x and an explicit input w, emulates M ′(x, w). The machine will
output 1 if and only if M ′(x, w) accepts. The running time of M is t. The
read-write memory of the machine is of size S = t + n + m. The local state
of the machine includes the description of the state of the Turing machine and
the last location read from memory, which requires at most polylog(t, n, m). We
deﬁne the size of the local state of the machine to be Lst = |xexp| + log |ximp| +
polylog(t, n, m) = m + polylog(t, n, m).
Let (RAM.G, RAM.D, RAM.P, RAM.V) be a RAM Delegation scheme for the
machine M, and let Enc be an eﬃciently encodable and decodable error correct-
ing code ensemble with relative distance δ > 0. Denote by Enc−1 the (poly-time)
decoding algorithm for Enc. We require the decoding algorithm to work only for
valid codewords. The language L′ is deﬁned as follows:
L′ =

crs, dimp
, Enc(w||π) | RAM.V(crs, dimp, w, 1, π)

In other words, the language L′ is the set of pairs of the following structure:
1. The ﬁrst component consists of inputs known to RAM.V explicitly, namely,
the common reference string crs and a digest of the implicit input.
2. The second component consists of inputs given to RAM.V by the prover,
namely, the witness w, and the RAM Delegation proof π. All of these are
encoded by the error correcting code Enc.
We deﬁne PCPP = (PCPP.P, PCPP.V) scheme to be a PCPP scheme for the
language L′.
Construction 8. The construction of the PCA scheme is as follows:
– PCA.G(1n, 1m, 1λ).
1. Output crs ←RAM.G(1λ, t(n, m)).
– PCA.P(crs, x, w).
1. Set π1 = RAM.P(crs, x, w).
2. Set dimp = RAM.D(crs, x).
3. Set π2 = PCPP.P((crs, dimp), Enc(w||π1)).
4. Output a proof π = (Enc(w||π1)||π2).
– PCA.Vπ(crs, x).
1. Set dimp = RAM.D(crs, x).
2. Parse π as Enc(w||π1)||π2.
3. Output PCPP.VEnc(w||π1),π2((crs, dimp), δ
2).

Probabilistically Checkable Arguments for All NP
369
4.2
Analysis
In what follows, we will provide proofs for completeness, eﬃciency, and soundness
for the PCA construction in section Sect. 4.1.
Completeness. Follows directly from the completeness properties of the under-
lying encoding, RAM Delegation and PCPP schemes.
Eﬃciency. We start by deﬁning the eﬃciency properties of the underlying RAM
Delegation scheme. Let Lst be the size of the local state of M, let vt be the running
time of RAM.V, let Lcrs be the size of crs, and let Lπ1 be the size of the proof π1.
By the poly(λ, log t)-veriﬁer eﬃciency and the poly(λ, log t)-succinctness of the
underlying RAM Delegation scheme, we get that for Lst ≥|xexp| + log |ximp| the
following holds (Deﬁnition 6),
vt, Lcrs, Lπ1 ≤poly(λ, log t) · poly(Lst).
Given that Lst = m + polylog(t, n, m), we get that Lst ≥|xexp| + log |ximp|.
Therefore, by the above equation,
vt, Lcrs, Lπ1 ≤poly(λ, log t) · poly(log t, log n, m)
≤poly(λ, log n, m).
(1)
Furthermore, we deﬁne the running time required for verifying the language
L′ to be the t′. By the eﬃciency of the underlying RAM Delegation scheme and
the eﬃciency of the underlying encoding scheme, we get that,
t′ = vt + poly(m, Lπ1).
By combining the above equation with Eq. 1 we get that:
t′ ≤poly(λ, log n, m).
(2)
Now, we can proceed to prove the succinctness of our scheme.
– Proof Size: By the eﬃciency of the underlying encoding scheme, and by the
size of π1 described in Eq. 1, we get that,
|Enc(w||π1)| ≤poly(λ, log n, m).
(3)
By the running time of RAM.V described in Eq. 1, combining with Theorem
5, we get that,
|π2| ≤poly(λ, log n, m).
(4)
Overall, by combining Eqs. 3, 4 we get that,
|π| = |(Enc(w||π1)||π2)| ≤poly(λ, log n, m),
as required.

370
S. Ben-David
– Prover Complexity: We start by analyzing the running time of all the steps
except for the RAM Delegation prover execution. The PCA prover ﬁrst com-
putes π1, the RAM Delegation proof. Then, the PCA prover computes the
digest of x using RAM.D. By the eﬃciency of the underlying RAM Delegation,
this step takes time:
|x| · poly(λ) = n · poly(λ).
(5)
Finally, the prover computes π2 by encoding (w || π1), followed by the com-
putation of a PCPP proof for the language L′. Since the running time of
verifying L′ is t′, this step takes poly(t′) (Theorem 5). By Eq. 2, we get that
this step takes time:
poly(λ, log n, m).
(6)
By Eq. 1 we get that,
poly(vt, m, Lπ1) ≤poly(λ, log n, m).
(7)
By Eq. 5 to Eq. 7, we get that all the steps of the PCA prover, except for the
execution of the RAM Delegation prover, takes time:
n · poly(λ) + poly(λ, log n, m).
(8)
Overall, for a RAM Delegation prover with running time bounded by T, we
get that the running time of the PCA prover is bounded by:
T + n · poly(λ) + poly(λ, log n, m).
Regarding the space complexity of the PCA prover, it is determined by the
space used by the RAM Delegation prover and the runtime of the remaining
steps. Therefore, referring to Eq. 8, for a RAM Delegation prover with space
complexity bounded by S, the space complexity of the PCA prover is bounded
by:
S + n · poly(λ) + poly(λ, log n, m)
as required.
– Veriﬁer Running Time: The PCA veriﬁer starts by computing the digest of
x using RAM.D. By the eﬃciency of the underlying RAM Delegation scheme,
this step takes time
|x| · poly(λ) = n · poly(λ).
(9)
Then, the PCA veriﬁer validates the PCPP proof. By Theorem 5, verifying
the PCPP proof takes time:
polylog(vt, m, Lπ1).
(10)
By Eq. 1 we get that,
polylog(vt, m, Lπ1) ≤polylog(λ, m, log n).
(11)
Overall, by combining Eq. 9 to Eq. 11 we get that the veriﬁer runs in time
n · poly(λ) + polylog(λ, m, log n), as required.

Probabilistically Checkable Arguments for All NP
371
– Veriﬁer’s Randomness Size: The PCA veriﬁer only uses randomness required
for the PCPP veriﬁer. Therefore, by Theorem 5, the randomness complexity
is O(log t′). By Eq. 2 we get that the randomness complexity is
O(log(poly(λ, log n, m))) ≤O(log(λ) + loglog(n) + log(m)),
as requires.
– Query Complexity: The PCA veriﬁer only queries its oracle when running the
PCPP veriﬁer. Therefore, for a ﬁxed proximity parameter, by Theorem 5, the
query complexity is O(1), as required.
Soundness. Fix some n, m ∈N, security parameter λ ∈N, and deterministic
malicious prover ˜P of size s(λ) = poly(λ).
Fix a crs generated by PCA.G(1n, 1m, 1λ), a malicious prover message (x, ˜π) =
˜P(crs) such that R(x) = ∅, and a digest of the input dimp = RAM.D(crs, x). Parse
the proof as ˜π = ˜τ1||˜τ2. Consider the case where:
Δ(˜τ1, Image(Enc)) ≥δ
2.
In this case, since L′(crs, dimp) ⊆Image(Enc), it holds that:
Δ(˜τ1, L′(crs, dimp)) ≥δ
2.
By the soundness property of the PCPP, we get that:
Pr
⎡
⎢⎢⎣PCPP.V˜τ1,˜τ2((crs, dimp), δ
2) = 1

(x, ˜π) ←˜P(crs)
dimp ←RAM.D(crs, x)
˜π := ˜τ1||˜τ2
Δ(˜τ1, L′(crs, dimp)) ≥δ
2
⎤
⎥⎥⎦< 1
2.
By the above equation, for the case where Δ(˜τ1, Image(Enc)) ≥δ
2, the following
holds:
Pr
PCA.V˜π(crs, x) = 1 ∧R(x) | (x, ˜π) ←˜P(crs)

< 1
2,
as required.
Therefore, moving forward, we will only consider the case where:
Δ(˜τ1, Image(Enc)) < δ
2.
In this case, the preﬁx ˜τ1 can be decoded eﬃciently into ˜w||˜π1 = Enc−1(˜τ1).

372
S. Ben-David
Given a crs we deﬁne the event BADb to be the following event:
BADb :=
⎡
⎢⎢⎣
RAM.V(crs, dimp, ˜w, 1, ˜π1) = b
R(x) = ∅

(x, ˜π) ←˜P(crs)
dimp ←RAM.D(crs, x)
˜π := ˜τ1||˜τ2
˜w||˜π1 ←Enc−1(˜τ1)
⎤
⎥⎥⎦.
In other words, the occurrence of event BAD1 implies that the proof ˜π consists
of a false witness ˜w and an accepting RAM Delegation proof ˜π1. We’ll argue
that (1) the probability of sampling a PCA common reference string such that
the event BAD1 occurs is negligible, and (2) the probability of sampling a PCA
common reference string such that the event BAD0 occurs and that the PCA
veriﬁer accepts is at most 1
2. Combining both claims will give us the required
soundness guarantee for our PCA.
By the soundness property of the underlying RAM Delegation scheme, we get
that:
Pr
BAD1 | crs ←PCA.G(1n, 1m, 1λ)

≤negl(λ).
Otherwise, we could use (x, ˜π) ←˜P(crs) to construct an adversary for the RAM
Delegation scheme that breaks the weak soundness with the same probability
that the event BAD1 occurs. The adversary for the RAM Delegation scheme will
extract the witness ˜w and the proof ˜π1 from ˜π. Then, the adversary will generate
an honest proof π0 for the statement that M(x, w) = 0 (which can be done by
the completeness of the RAM Delegation scheme). The adversary will output
(x = (x, w), π0, π1 = ˜π1).
Next, we want to bound the following probability of BAD0. By the deﬁnition
of BAD0, this means that RAM.V rejects its input. Therefore, the claim proven by
˜τ2 is false. In this case, by the soundness of the PCPP veriﬁer for L′ it holds that
the probability of PCPP.V accepting input ((crs, dimp), Enc( ˜w||˜π1)) with proof ˜τ2
is at most 1
2. Therefore, we get that:
Pr

PCA.V˜π(crs, x) = 1 ∧R(x)
BAD0
 crs ←PCA.G(1n, 1m, 1λ)

< 1
2.
Overall, with all but negl(λ) probability over the choice of crs, the probability
of PCPP.V accepting x with proof ˜π is at most 1
2.
5
Complexity-Preserving RAM Delegation Scheme
In this section we construct a poly(λ, log t)-succinct RAM Delegation scheme for
any read-write RAM machine.
Theorem 9. There exist poly(λ, log t)-succinct RAM Delegation scheme for any
read-write RAM machine under any of the following assumptions:

Probabilistically Checkable Arguments for All NP
373
1. The O(1)-LIN assumption on a pair of cryptographic groups with eﬃcient
bilinear map.
2. The hardness of Learning with errors (LWE) problem against polynomial time
adversaries.
3. The sub-exponential Decisional Diﬃe-Hellman (DDH) assumptions.
Moreover, the RAM prover has the following properties:
– The prover runs in time

t · poly(Lst, log t) + |ximp|

· poly(λ).
– The prover uses sapce

w · poly(Lst, log t) + |ximp|

· poly(λ).
where (ximp, xexp) is the input to M, t is the running time of M(ximp, xexp), and
w is the space used by M(ximp, xexp).
The proof of this theorem appears in the full version of this work.
Acknowledgments. We thank Eylon Yogev and Gal Arnon for invaluable and useful
discussions.
References
1. Abboud, A., Rubinstein, A., Williams, R.R.: Distributed PCP theorems for hard-
ness of approximation in P. In: Umans, C. (ed.) 58th IEEE Annual Symposium on
Foundations of Computer Science, FOCS 2017, Berkeley, 15–17 October 2017, pp.
25–36. IEEE Computer Society (2017)
2. Arora, S., Lund, C., Motwani, R., Sudan, M., Szegedy, M.: Proof veriﬁcation and
the hardness of approximation problems. J. ACM 45(3), 501–555 (1998)
3. Ben-Sasson, E., Goldreich, O., Harsha, P., Sudan, M., Vadhan, S.P.: Short PCPS
veriﬁable in polylogarithmic time. In: 20th Annual IEEE Conference on Compu-
tational Complexity (CCC 2005), 11–15 June 2005, San Jose, pp. 120–134. IEEE
Computer Society (2005)
4. Bodlaender, H.L., Downey, R.G., Fellows, M.R., Hermelin, D.: On problems with-
out polynomial kernels. J. Comput. Syst. Sci. 75(8), 423–434 (2009). https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.jcss.2009.04.001
5. Bronfman, L., Rothblum, R.D.: PCPs and instance compression from a crypto-
graphic lens. In: Braverman, M. (ed.) 13th Innovations in Theoretical Computer
Science Conference, ITCS 2022, 31 January–3 February 2022, Berkeley. LIPIcs,
vol. 215, pp. 30:1–30:19. Schloss Dagstuhl - Leibniz-Zentrum f¨ur Informatik (2022)
6. Chen, L., Goldwasser, S., Lyu, K., Rothblum, G.N., Rubinstein, A.: Fine-grained
complexity meets IP = PSPACE. In: Chan, T.M. (ed.) Proceedings of the Thirtieth
Annual ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms, SODA 2019, San Diego,
6–9 January 2019, pp. 1–20. SIAM (2019)
7. Choudhuri, A.R., Garg, S., Jain, A., Jin, Z., Zhang, J.: Correlation intractability
and snargs from sub-exponential DDH. In: Handschuh, H., Lysyanskaya, A. (eds.)
Advances in Cryptology, CRYPTO 2023. LNCS, vol. 14084, pp. 635–668. Springer,
Cham (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-38551-3 20
8. Choudhuri, A.R., Jain, A., Jin, Z.: Snargs for P from LWE. In: 62nd IEEE Annual
Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science, FOCS 2021, Denver, 7–10 Febru-
ary 2022, pp. 68–79. IEEE (2021)

374
S. Ben-David
9. Drucker, A.: New limits to classical and quantum instance compression. SIAM J.
Comput. 44(5), 1443–1479 (2015)
10. Fortnow, L., Santhanam, R.: Infeasibility of instance compression and succinct
PCPs for NP. In: Dwork, C. (ed.) Proceedings of the 40th Annual ACM Symposium
on Theory of Computing, Victoria, 17–20 May 2008, pp. 133–142. ACM (2008)
11. Harnik, D., Naor, M.: On the compressibility of np instances and cryptographic
applications. SIAM J. Comput. 39(5), 1667–1713 (2010)
12. Jawale, R., Kalai, Y.T., Khurana, D., Zhang, R.Y.: Snargs for bounded depth
computations and PPAD hardness from sub-exponential LWE. In: Khuller, S.,
Williams, V.V. (eds.) STOC 2021, pp. 708–721. ACM (2021)
13. Kalai, Y.T., Lombardi, A., Vaikuntanathan, V., Wichs, D.: Boosting batch argu-
ments and RAM delegation. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch. p. 1320 (2022)
14. Kalai, Y.T., Paneth, O., Yang, L.: How to delegate computations publicly. In:
Charikar, M., Cohen, E. (eds.) Proceedings of the 51st Annual ACM SIGACT
Symposium on Theory of Computing, STOC 2019, Phoenix, 23–26 June 2019, pp.
1115–1124. ACM (2019)
15. Kalai, Y.T., Raz, R.: Probabilistically checkable arguments. In: Halevi, S. (ed.)
Advances in Cryptology. CRYPTO 2009. LNCS, vol. 5677, pp. 143–159. Springer,
Heidelberg (2009). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-03356-8 9
16. Kalai, Y.T., Vaikuntanathan, V., Zhang, R.Y.: Somewhere statistical soundness,
post-quantum security, and SNARGs. In: Nissim, K., Waters, B. (eds.) Theory of
Cryptography, TCC 2021. LNCS, vol. 13042, pp. 330–368. Springer, Cham (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-90459-3 12
17. Szydlo, M.: Merkle tree traversal in log space and time. In: Cachin, C., Camenisch,
J. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology. EUROCRYPT 2004. LNCS, vol. 3027, pp. 541–
554. Springer, Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-24676-3 32
18. Waters, B., Wu, D.J.: Batch arguments for NP and more from standard bilinear
group assumptions. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch. p. 336 (2022)
19. Zimand, M.: Probabilistically checkable proofs the easy way. In: Baeza-Yates, R.A.,
Montanari, U., Santoro, N. (eds.) Foundations of Information Technology in the
Era of Networking and Mobile Computing, IFIP 17th World Computer Congress -
TC1 Stream/2nd IFIP International Conference on Theoretical Computer Science
(TCS 2002), 25–30 August 2002, Montreal. IFIP Conference Proceedings, vol. 223,
pp. 337–351. Kluwer (2002)

