Public Key Encryption with Secure Key
Leasing
Shweta Agrawal1, Fuyuki Kitagawa2, Ryo Nishimaki2, Shota Yamada3,
and Takashi Yamakawa2(B)
1 IIT Madras, Chennai, India
2 NTT Social Informatics Laboratories, Tokyo, Japan
takashi.yamakawa@ntt.com
3 National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST),
Tokyo, Japan
Abstract. We introduce the notion of public key encryption with secure
key leasing (PKE-SKL). Our notion supports the leasing of decryption
keys so that a leased key achieves the decryption functionality but comes
with the guarantee that if the quantum decryption key returned by a
user passes a validity test, then the user has lost the ability to decrypt.
Our notion is similar in spirit to the notion of secure software leasing
(SSL) introduced by Ananth and La Placa (Eurocrypt 2021) but cap-
tures signiﬁcantly more general adversarial strategies. (In more detail,
our adversary is not restricted to use an honest evaluation algorithm to
run pirated software.) Our results can be summarized as follows:
1. Deﬁnitions:
We introduce the deﬁnition of PKE with secure key
leasing and formalize a security notion that we call indistinguisha-
bility against key leasing attacks (IND-KLA security). We also deﬁne
a one-wayness notion for PKE-SKL that we call OW-KLA security
and show that an OW-KLA secure PKE-SKL scheme can be lifted
to an IND-KLA secure one by using the (quantum) Goldreich-Levin
lemma.
2. Constructing IND-KLA PKE with Secure Key Leasing: We provide
a construction of OW-KLA secure PKE-SKL (which implies IND-
KLA secure PKE-SKL as discussed above) by leveraging a PKE
scheme that satisﬁes a new security notion that we call consistent or
inconsistent security against key leasing attacks (CoIC-KLA secu-
rity). We then construct a CoIC-KLA secure PKE scheme using
1-key Ciphertext-Policy Functional Encryption (CPFE) that in turn
can be based on any IND-CPA secure PKE scheme.
3. Identity Based Encryption, Attribute Based Encryption and Func-
tional Encryption with Secure Key Leasing: We provide deﬁnitions
of secure key leasing in the context of advanced encryption schemes
such as identity based encryption (IBE), attribute-based encryption
(ABE) and functional encryption (FE). Then we provide construc-
tions by combining the above PKE-SKL with standard IBE, ABE
and FE schemes.
Notably, our deﬁnitions allow the adversary to request distinguish-
ing keys in the security game, namely, keys that distinguish the
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2023
C. Hazay and M. Stam (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2023, LNCS 14004, pp. 581–610, 2023.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-30545-0_20

582
S. Agrawal et al.
challenge bit by simply decrypting the challenge ciphertext, as long
as it returns them (and they pass the validity test) before it sees
the challenge ciphertext. All our constructions satisfy this stronger
deﬁnition, albeit with the restriction that only a bounded number
of such keys is allowed to the adversary in the IBE and ABE (but
not FE) security games.
Prior to our work, the notion of single decryptor encryption (SDE) has
been studied in the context of PKE (Georgiou and Zhandry, Eprint
2020) and FE (Kitigawa and Nishimaki, Asiacrypt 2022) but all their
constructions rely on strong assumptions including indistinguishability
obfuscation. In contrast, our constructions do not require any additional
assumptions, showing that PKE/IBE/ABE/FE can be upgraded to sup-
port secure key leasing for free.
1
Introduction
Recent years have seen amazing advances in cryptography by leveraging the
power of quantum computation. Several novel primitives such as perfectly secure
key agreement [11], quantum money [35], quantum copy protection [1], one shot
signatures [5] and such others, which are not known to exist in the classical world,
can be constructed in the quantum setting, signiﬁcantly advancing cryptographic
capabilities.
In this work, we continue to study harnessing quantum powers to protect
against software piracy. The quantum no-cloning principle intuitively suggests
applicability to anti-piracy, an approach which was ﬁrst investigated in the semi-
nal work of Aaronson [1], who introduced the notion of quantum copy protection.
At a high level, quantum copy protection prevents users from copying software
in the sense that it guarantees that when an adversary is given a copy protected
circuit for computing some function f, it cannot create two (possibly entan-
gled) quantum states, both of which can compute f. While interesting in its
own right for preventing software piracy, quantum copy protection (for some
class of circuits) also has the amazing application of public-key quantum money
[2]. Perhaps unsurprisingly, constructions of quantum copy protection schemes
from standard cryptographic assumptions have remained largely elusive. This
motivates the study of primitives weaker than quantum copy protection, which
nevertheless oﬀer meaningful guarantees for anti-piracy.
Secure software leasing (SSL), introduced by Ananth and La Placa [9], is such
a primitive, which while being weaker than quantum copy-protection, is never-
theless still meaningful for software anti-piracy. Intuitively, this notion allows
to encode software into a version which may be leased or rented out, for some
speciﬁc term at some given cost. Once the lease expires, the lessee returns the
software and the lessor can run an eﬃcient procedure to verify its validity. If the
software passes the test, we have the guarantee that the lessee is no longer able
to run the software (using the honest evaluation algorithm).
In this work, we explore the possibility of equipping public key encryption
(PKE) with a key leasing capability. The beneﬁts of such a capability are indis-
putable – in the real world, decryption keys of users often need to be revoked,

Public Key Encryption with Secure Key Leasing
583
for instance, when a user leaves an organization. In the classical setting, nothing
prevents the user from maintaining a copy of her decryption key and misusing
its power. Revocation mechanisms have been designed to prevent such attacks,
but these are often cumbersome in practice. Typically, such a mechanism entails
the revoked key being included in a Certiﬁcate Revocation List (CRL) or Certiﬁ-
cate Revocation Trees (CRT), or some database which is publicly available, so
that other users are warned against its usage. However, the challenges of eﬀec-
tive certiﬁcate revocation are well acknowledged in public key infrastructure –
please see [12] for a detailed discussion. If the decryption keys of a PKE could be
encoded as quantum states and allow for veriﬁable leasing, this would constitute
a natural and well-ﬁtting solution to the challenge of key revocation.
1.1
Prior Work
In this section, we discuss prior work related to public key encryption (PKE) and
public key functional encryption (PKFE), where decryption keys are encoded
into quantum states to beneﬁt from uncloneability. For a broader discussion on
prior work related to quantum copy protection and secure software leasing, we
refer the reader to Sect. 1.4.
Georgiou and Zhandry [20] introduced the notion of single decryptor encryp-
tion (SDE), where the decryption keys are unclonable quantum objects. They
showed how to use one-shot signatures together with extractable witness encryp-
tion with quantum auxiliary information to achieve public key SDE. Subse-
quently, Coladangelo, Liu, Liu, and Zhandry [17] achieved SDE assuming iO
and extractable witness encryption or assuming subexponential iO, subexpo-
nential OWF, LWE and a strong monogamy property (which was subsequently
shown to be true [19]). Very recently, Kitagawa and Nishimaki [27] introduced
the notion of single-decryptor functional encryption (SDFE), where each func-
tional decryption key is copy protected and provided collusion-resistant single
decryptor PKFE for P/poly from the subexponential hardness of iO and LWE.
It is well-known [3,9] that copy protection is a stronger notion than SSL1
– intuitively, if an adversary can generate two copies of a program, then it can
return one of them while keeping the other for later use. Thus, constructions
of single decryptor encryption [17,20,27] imply our notion of PKE with secure
key leasing from their respective assumptions, which all include at least the
assumption of iO (see Appendix A of the full version for the detail). Additionally,
in the context of public key FE, the only prior work by Kitagawa and Nishimaki
[27] considers the restricted single-key setting where an adversary is given a
single decryption key that can be used to detect the challenge bit. In contrast,
we consider the more powerful multi-key setting, which makes our deﬁnition of
FE-SKL incomparable to the SDFE considered by [27]. For the primitives of
IBE and ABE, there has been no prior work achieving any notion of key leasing
to the best of our knowledge. We also note that Aaronson et al. [3] studied
1 The informed reader may observe that this implication may not always be true due
to some subtleties, but we ignore these for the purpose of the overview.

584
S. Agrawal et al.
the notion of “copy-detection”, which is a weaker form of copy protection, for
any “watermarkable” functionalities based on iO and OWF. In particular, by
instantiating the construction with the watermarkable PKE of [22], they obtain
PKE with copy-detection from iO + PKE.
Overall, all previous works that imply PKE-SKL are designed to achieve the
stronger goal of copy protection (or the incomparable goal of copy detection)
and rely at least on the strong assumption of iO. In this work, our goal is to
achieve the weaker goal of PKE-SKL from standard assumptions.
1.2
Our Results
In this work, we initiate the study of public key encryption with secure key
leasing. Our results can be summarized as follows:
1. Deﬁnitions:
We introduce the deﬁnition of PKE with secure key leasing
(PKE-SKL) to formalize the arguably natural requirement that decryption
keys of a PKE scheme is encoded into a leased version so that the leased
key continues to achieve the decryption functionality but now comes with
an additional “returnability” guarantee. In more detail, the security of PKE-
SKL requires that if the quantum decryption key returned by a user passes a
validity test, then the user has lost the ability to decrypt. To capture this intu-
ition, we formalize a security notion that we call indistinguishability against
key leasing attacks (IND-KLA security). We also deﬁne a one-wayness notion
for PKE-SKL that we call OW-KLA security and show that an OW-KLA
secure PKE-SKL scheme can be lifted to an IND-KLA secure one by using
the (quantum) Goldreich-Levin lemma.
2. Constructing IND-KLA PKE with Secure Key Leasing: We provide a con-
struction of OW-KLA secure PKE-SKL (which imples IND-KLA PKE-SKL
as discussed above) by leveraging a PKE scheme that satisﬁes a new secu-
rity notion that we call consistent or inconsistent security against key leasing
attacks (CoIC-KLA security). We then construct a CoIC-KLA secure PKE
scheme using 1-key Ciphertext-Policy Functional Encryption (CPFE) that in
turn can be based on any IND-CPA secure PKE scheme.
3. Identity Based Encryption, Attribute Based Encryption and Functional
Encryption with Secure Key Leasing: We provide deﬁnitions of secure key
leasing in the context of advanced encryption schemes such as identity based
encryption (IBE), attribute-based encryption (ABE) and functional encryp-
tion (FE). Then we provide constructions by combining the above PKE-SKL
with standard IBE, ABE and FE schemes.
Notably, our deﬁnitions allow the adversary to request distinguishing keys in
the security game, namely, keys that distinguish the challenge bit by simply
decrypting the challenge ciphertext. Recall that this was not permitted in
the classical setting to avoid trivializing the security deﬁnition. However, in
the quantum setting, we consider a stronger deﬁnition where the adversary
can request such keys so long as it returns them (and they pass the validity
test) before it sees the challenge ciphertext. All our constructions satisfy this

Public Key Encryption with Secure Key Leasing
585
stronger deﬁnition, albeit with the restriction that only a bounded number
of such keys be allowed to the adversary in the IBE and ABE (but not FE)
security games. We emphasize that this restriction is a result of our techniques
and could potentially be removed in future work.
We note that, in general, secure software leasing (SSL) only ensures a notion
of security where the adversary is forced to use an honest evaluation algo-
rithm for the software. However, our deﬁnition (and hence constructions) of
PKE/ABE/FE SKL do not suﬀer from this limitation. Our constructions do not
require any additional assumptions, showing that PKE/IBE/ABE/FE can be
upgraded to support secure key leasing for free.
1.3
Technical Overview
We proceed to give a technical overview of this work.
Deﬁnition of PKE with Secure Key Leasing. We ﬁrst introduce the deﬁnition
of PKE with secure key leasing (PKE-SKL). A PKE-SKL scheme SKL consists
of four algorithms (KG, Enc, Dec, Vrfy), where the ﬁrst three algorithms form a
standard PKE scheme except the following diﬀerences on KG.2
– KG outputs a quantum decryption key dk instead of a classical decryption
key.
– KG outputs a (secret) veriﬁcation key vk, together with a public encryption
key and quantum decryption key.
The veriﬁcation algorithm Vrfy takes as input a veriﬁcation key and a quantum
decryption key, and outputs ⊤or ⊥. In addition to decryption correctness, SKL
should satisfy veriﬁcation correctness that states that Vrfy(vk, dk ) = ⊤holds,
where (ek, dk , vk) ←KG(1λ).
The security of PKE-SKL requires that once a user holding a quantum
decryption key returns the key correctly, the user can no longer use the key
and lose the ability to decrypt. We formalize this as a security notion that we
call indistinguishability against key leasing attacks (IND-KLA security). It is
deﬁned by using the following security game.
1. First, the challenger generates (ek, dk , vk) ←KG(1λ) and sends ek and dk to
an adversary A.
2. A sends two challenge plaintexts (m∗
0, m∗
1) and a quantum state 
dk that is sup-
posed to be a correct decryption key. The challenger checks if Vrfy(vk, 
dk ) = ⊤
holds. If not, A is regarded as invalid and the game ends here. Otherwise, the
game goes to the next step.3
2 In this paper, standard math or sans serif font stands for classical algorithms and
classical variables. The calligraphic font stands for quantum algorithms and the
calligraphic font and/or the bracket notation for (mixed) quantum states.
3 We also consider a slightly stronger deﬁnition where the adversary can get access to
a veriﬁcation oracle many times, and the adversary is regarded as valid if the answer
to at least one query 
dk is ⊤. In this overview, we focus on the “1-query” security
for simplicity.

586
S. Agrawal et al.
3. The challenger generates ct∗←Enc(ek, m∗
coin) and sends it to A, where coin ←
{0, 1}.
4. A outputs coin′.
IND-KLA security guarantees that any QPT A cannot guess coin correctly sig-
niﬁcantly better than random guessing, conditioned on A being valid. In more
detail, for any QPT adversary A that passes the veriﬁcation with a non-negligible
probability, we have
Pr[coin′ = coin | Vrfy(vk, 
dk ) = ⊤] −1/2
 = negl(λ).
One-Wayness to Indistinguishability. It is natural to deﬁne a one-wayness notion
for PKE-SKL, which we call OW-KLA security, by modifying the above deﬁni-
tion so that the adversary is required to recover entire bits of a randomly chosen
message from its ciphertext. Similarly to standard PKE, we can transform a OW-
KLA secure PKE-SKL scheme into an IND-KLA secure one by using (quantum)
Goldreich-Levin lemma [4,17]. Hence, though our goal is to construct an IND-
KLA secure scheme, it suﬃces to construct an OW-KLA secure one.
Basic Idea for OW-KLA Secure Scheme.
Towards realizing a OW-KLA
secure PKE-SKL scheme, we construct an intermediate scheme Basic
=
(Basic.KG, Basic.Enc, Basic.Dec, Basic.Vrfy) using two instances of a standard
PKE scheme, with parallel repetition. Let PKE = (PKE.KG, PKE.Enc, PKE.Dec)
be a standard PKE scheme. Basic.KG generates two key pairs (ek0, dk0) and
(ek1, dk1) using PKE.KG and outputs ek := (ek0, ek1), dk := 1/
√
2(|0⟩|dk0⟩+
|1⟩|dk1⟩), and vk := (dk0, dk1). Given m and ek, Basic.Enc generates ct0 ←
PKE.Enc(ek0, m) and ct1 ←PKE.Enc(ek1, m) and outputs ct := (ct0, ct1).
Basic.Dec can decrypt this ciphertext using the decryption keys dk0 and dk1,
respectively, in superposition. Since both decryptions result in the same mes-
sage m, we can decrypt ciphertexts without collapsing dk . Finally, Basic.Vrfy
checks if the input decryption key is an equal-weight superposition of dk0 and
dk1. Concretely, it applies a binary outcome measurement w.r.t. a projection
Πvrfy := 1
2 (|0⟩|dk0⟩+ |1⟩|dk1⟩) (⟨0| ⟨dk0| + ⟨1| ⟨dk1|), and returns ⊤if and only
if the state is projected onto Πvrfy.
Intuitively, if the adversary has returned the correct decryption key, then
it no longer has the capability to decrypt since the decryption key cannot be
cloned. However, this scheme does not satisfy OW-KLA because an adversary
can pass the veriﬁcation with probability 1/2 simply by measuring the decryption
key and returning the collapsed decryption key. Such an adversary can keep the
decryption capability even after passing veriﬁcation because the decryption key
collapses to a classical string, which can be easily copied. Nonetheless, it is
reasonable to expect that this attack strategy is optimal because there appears
to be no obvious way to attack with a better advantage. That said, it is unclear
how to turn this intuition into a formal proof assuming only IND-CPA security
of the underlying PKE. To address this gap, we introduce a new security notion
for PKE, that we call consistent or inconsistent security against key leasing
attacks (CoIC-KLA security). Using this, we can prove that the aforementioned
adversarial strategy is optimal and Basic satisﬁes 1/2-OW-KLA security.

Public Key Encryption with Secure Key Leasing
587
By being 1/2-OW-KLA secure, we mean that the probability that an adver-
sary can correctly return a decryption key and recover the challenge plaintext
simultaneously is at most 1/2 + negl(λ). Below, we introduce the deﬁnition of
CoIC-KLA security and how to prove 1/2-OW-KLA security of Basic using CoIC-
KLA security. Then, we explain how to achieve a full OW-KLA secure scheme
by applying parallel ampliﬁcation to Basic.
Deﬁnition of CoIC-KLA security. CoIC-KLA security is deﬁned by using the
following game.
1. The challenger generates (ek0, dk0) and (ek1, dk1) using PKE.KG, and gener-
ates dk := 1/
√
2(|0⟩|dk0⟩+|1⟩|dk1⟩). The challenger sends ek0, ek1, and dk to
an adversary A. In this game, A can access the veriﬁcation oracle only once,
where the oracle is given a quantum state and returns the outcome of the
projective measurement (Πvrfy, I −Πvrfy).
2. A sends two plaintexts (m∗
0, m∗
1) to the challenger. The challenger picks ran-
dom bits a, b and generates ct0 = Enc(ek0, ma) and ct1 = Enc(ek1, ma⊕b).
Then, the challenger sends ct0 and ct1 to A.
3. A outputs a bit b′.
Then, CoIC-KLA security requires that any QPT A cannot guess b signiﬁcantly
better than random guessing. In the above game, if b = 0, ct0 and ct1 are
ciphertexts of the same plaintext m∗
a. On the other hand, if b = 1, ct0 and
ct1 are ciphertexts of the diﬀerent plaintexts m∗
a and m∗
1⊕a. Thus, we call this
security notion consistent or inconsistent security.
1/2-OW-KLA security of Basic. We explain how to prove 1/2-OW-KLA security
of Basic based on CoIC-KLA security of PKE. The OW-KLA security game for
Basic is as follows.
1. The challenger generates (ek0, dk0) and (ek1, dk1) using PKE.KG, sets ek :=
(ek0, ek1) and dk := 1/
√
2(|0⟩|dk0⟩+ |1⟩|dk1⟩), and sends ek and dk to an
adversary A.
2. The adversary returns a quantum state 
dk that is supposed to be a correct
decryption key. The challenger checks if the result of applying Πvrfy deﬁned
above to 
dk is 1. If not, A is regarded as invalid and the game ends here.
Otherwise, the game goes to the next step.
3. The challenger generates random plaintext m∗and two ciphertexts ct0 ←
PKE.Enc(ek0, m∗) and ct1 ←PKE.Enc(ek1, m∗), and sends ct := (ct0, ct1) to
A.
4. A outputs m′.
In this game, we say that A wins if (a) 
dk passes the veriﬁcation, that is, the
result of applying Πvrfy to 
dk is 1, and (b) m′ = m∗holds. A can win this
game with probability at least 1/2 by just measuring 1/
√
2(|0⟩|dk0⟩+ |1⟩|dk1⟩),
returns collapsed key, and decrypt the challenge ciphertext with the key. As
stated above, we can prove that this is the optimal strategy for A, that is, we
can bound the advantage of A by 1/2 + negl(λ). The proof can be done by using
game sequences. We denote the probability that A wins in Game i as Pr[Si].

588
S. Agrawal et al.
Game 0: This is exactly the above game.
Game 1: We defer the veriﬁcation of the returned key 
dk after A outputs m′.
From the deferred measurement principle, we have Pr[S0] = Pr[S1].
Game 2: We change A’s winning condition (b). Concretely, we replace (b) with
(b′) m′ ∈{m∗, ˜m} holds, where ˜m is a random plaintext.
Since we relaxed A’s winning condition, we have Pr[S1] ≤Pr[S2].
Game 3: We generate ct1 as ct1 ←PKE.Enc(ek1, ˜m) instead of ct1 ←PKE.Enc
(ek1, m∗).
The only diﬀerence between Game 2 and 3 is that ct0 and ct1 are ciphertexts
of the same plaintext in Game 2, but they are ciphertexts of diﬀerent plaintexts
in Game 3. Thus, we obtain |Pr[S2] −Pr[S3]| = negl(λ) using CoIC security of
PKE.
We complete the proof by showing that Pr[S3] ≤1/2 + negl(λ) holds if PKE
satisﬁes one-wayness (that is implied by CoIC-KLA security). To show it, we
use the following Fact 1.
Fact 1: Assume PKE satisﬁes one-wayness. Then, given 1/
√
2(|0⟩|dk0⟩+|1⟩|dk1⟩),
PKE.Enc(ek0, m∗), and PKE.Enc(ek1, ˜m), no adversary can obtain (dk0, ˜m) or
(dk1, m∗) with non-negligible probability.
This can be proved by using the fact that even if we measure 1/
√
2(|0⟩|dk0⟩+
|1⟩|dk1⟩) in the computational basis before giving it to the adversary, the adver-
sary still has success probability at least ϵ/2, where ϵ is the success probability
of the original experiment [13, Lemma 2.1].
Suppose Pr[S3] = 1/2 + 1/poly(λ) for some polynomial poly. This means
that conditioned that m′ ∈{m∗, ˜m}, 
dk returned by A passes the veriﬁcation
with probability signiﬁcantly greater than 1/2. Thus, if we measure 
dk in the
computational basis, we obtain dk0 with some inverse polynomial probability
and also dk1 with some inverse polynomial probability. (If either one is obtained
with overwhelming probability, 
dk cannot pass the veriﬁcation with probability
signiﬁcantly greater than 1/2.) This means that using A, we can obtain either
one pair of (dk0, ˜m) or (dk1, m∗) with inverse polynomial probability, which con-
tradicts Fact 1. Thus, we obtain Pr[S3] ≤1/2 + negl(λ).
From the above discussions, we can conclude that if PKE satisﬁes CoIC-KLA
security, Basic satisﬁes 1/2-OW-KLA security.
Full OW-KLA Security by Parallel Repetition. To achieve a fully OW-KLA
secure scheme, we apply parallel ampliﬁcation to Basic in the following way.
When generating a key tuple, we generate λ key tuples (eki, dk i, vki) of Basic
and set ek′ := (eki)i∈[λ, dk ′ := (dk i)i∈[λ], and vk′ := (vki)i∈[λ]. When encrypting
a plaintext m, we divide it into λ pieces m1, · · · , mλ, and encrypt each mi using
eki. Then decryption and veriﬁcation are performed naturally by running the
underlying procedures in Basic for every i ∈[λ]. We can prove the full OW-KLA

Public Key Encryption with Secure Key Leasing
589
security of this construction using a strategy analogous to that used to achieve
1/2-OW-KLA security of Basic. We remark that it is unclear whether we can
amplify 1/2-OW-KLA security to full OW-KLA security in a black box way and
our security proof relies on the speciﬁc structure of our scheme.
Constructing CoIC-KLA Secure PKE Scheme. In the rest of this overview, we
mainly explain how to construct CoIC-KLA secure PKE scheme. We construct
it using 1-key Ciphertext-Policy Functional Encryption (CPFE) that in turn can
be based on any IND-CPA secure PKE scheme.
We ﬁrst review the deﬁnition of 1-key CPFE scheme. A 1-key CPFE scheme
CPFE consists of four algorithms (FE.Setup, FE.KG, FE.Enc, FE.Dec). Given a
security parameter, FE.Setup outputs a master public key mpk and a master
secret key msk. FE.KG takes as input msk and a string x and outputs a decryp-
tion key skx tied to the string x. FE.Enc takes as input mpk and a description of
a circuit C and outputs a ciphertext ct. If we decrypt this ciphertext ct with skx
using FE.Dec, we can obtain C(x). The security of it states that ciphertexts of
two circuits C0 and C1 are computationally indistinguishable for an adversary
who has decryption key skx for x of its choice, as long as C0(x) = C1(x) holds.
Letting CPFE = (FE.Setup, FE.KG, FE.Enc, FE.Dec) be a 1-key CPFE scheme,
we construct a CoIC secure PKE scheme PKE = (PKE.KG, PKE.Enc, PKE.Dec)
as follows. PKE.KG generates (mpk, msk) ←CPFE.Setup(1λ) and a decryption
key skx ←CPFE.KG(msk, x) for random string x, and outputs an encryption key
ek := mpk and the corresponding decryption key dk := skx. Given ek = mpk
and m, PKE.Enc outputs FE.Enc(mpk, C[m]), where C[m] is the constant circuit
that outputs msg on any input. Given dk = skx and ct, PKE.Dec simply outputs
CPFE.Dec(skx, ct). We see that PKE satisﬁes decryption correctness from that
of CPFE.
Before proving CoIC-KLA security of PKE, we explain a nice tracing prop-
erty of PKE that plays an important role in the proof. It says that if there exists
a decoder that can distinguish PKE.Enc(ek, m∗
0) and PKE.Enc(ek, m∗
1) with prob-
ability 1/2 + 1/poly(λ) for some plaintexts m∗
0, m∗
1 and polynomial poly, we can
extract the string x tied to the decryption key from the decoder. Concretely, the
following fact holds.
Fact 2: Consider the following experiment. The challenger generates (ek :=
mpk, dk := skx) using PKE.KG and sends them to an adversary A. A out-
puts a decoder D together with m∗
0, m∗
1 that can predict random bit b from
PKE.Enc(ek, m∗
b) with probability 1/2 + 1/poly(λ) for some polynomial poly.
Then, we can extract x from D with inverse polynomial probability.
In fact, if the decoder D is a classical decoder, we can extract x from D with
a probability close to 1 as follows. Let ˜C[b, m0, m1, i] be the circuit that is given x
as an input and outputs mb⊕x[i], where x[i] is the i-th bit of x. Then, suppose we
generate many random (b, FE.Enc(mpk, ˜C[b, m∗
0, m∗
1, i])) and estimate the prob-
ability that the decoder D outputs b given FE.Enc(mpk, ˜C[b, m∗
0, m∗
1, i]) as an
input. By the CPFE’s security, FE.Enc(mpk, ˜C[b, m∗
0, m∗
1, i]) is indistinguishable

590
S. Agrawal et al.
from a correctly generated ciphertext of m∗
b⊕xi, that is, PKE.Enc(ek, m∗
b⊕xi) =
FE.Enc(mpk, C[m∗
b⊕xi]) from the view of A
and D who has skx, since
˜C[b, m∗
0, m∗
1, i](x) = C[m∗
b⊕xi](x) = m∗
b⊕xi. Then, the result of the estimation
should be as follows.
– In the case of x[i]
=
0, each sample used for the estimation looks
(b, PKE.Enc(ek, mb)) from the view of D. Thus, the result of the estimation
should be greater than 1/2 from the fact that D correctly predicts random
bit b from PKE.Enc(ek, mb) with probability 1/2 + 1/poly(λ).
– In the case of x[i]
=
1, each sample used for the estimation looks
(b, PKE.Enc(ek, m1⊕b)) from the view of D. Thus, the result of the estimation
should be smaller than 1/2 since D outputs 1 ⊕b given PKE.Enc(ek, m1⊕b)
with probability 1/2 + 1/poly(λ).
Therefore, by checking if the result of the estimation is greater than 1/2 or not,
we can extract x[i]. By doing this for every i, we can extract entire bits of x.
The above extraction technique is a direct application of that used by Kita-
gawa and Nishimaki [28] to realize watermarking scheme secure against quantum
adversaries. By using their technique, even if the decoder is a quantum decoder
D that consists of a unitary and an initial quantum state, we can extract x from
D with inverse polynomial probability, as long as D has a high distinguishing
advantage. Roughly speaking, this is done by performing the above estimation
using (approximate) projective implementation proposed by Zhandry [37] that
is based on the technique by Marriott and Watrous [30]. By extending the above
extraction technique, we can obtain the following fact.
Fact 3: Consider the following experiment. The challenger generates (ek0 :=
mpk0, dk0 := skx0) and (ek1 := mpk1, dk1 := skx1) using PKE.KG, and sends
ek0, ek1, and 1/
√
2(|0⟩|dk0⟩+ |1⟩|dk1⟩) = 1/
√
2(|0⟩|skx0⟩+ |1⟩|skx1⟩) to an
adversary A. A outputs a quantum decoder D together with (m∗
0, m∗
1) that
can predict b from PKE.Enc(ek0, ma) and PKE.Enc(ek1, ma⊕b) with probability
1/2+1/poly(λ) for some polynomial poly. Then, we can extract both x0 and
x1 from D with inverse polynomial probability.
We now explain how we can prove CoIC-KLA security of PKE using Fact 3.
To this end, we introduce one more fact.
Fact 4: Given mpk0, mpk1, and 1/
√
2(|0⟩|skx0⟩+ |1⟩|skx1⟩), where (mpk0, skx0)
and (mpk1, skx1) are generated as in PKE.KG, no adversary can compute both
x0 and x1 with non-negligible probability.
Similarly to Fact 1, we can prove this from the fact that even if we measure
1/
√
2(|0⟩|skx0⟩+ |1⟩|skx1⟩) in the computational basis before giving it to the
adversary, the adversary still has success probability at least ϵ/2, where ϵ is the
success probability of the original experiment [13, Lemma 2.1].
Suppose there exists a QPT adversary A that breaks CoIC-KLA security
of PKE. We consider the following adversary B using A. Given mpk0, mpk1,
and 1/
√
2(|0⟩|skx0⟩+ |1⟩|skx1⟩), B simulates CoIC-KLA security game for A by

Public Key Encryption with Secure Key Leasing
591
setting ek0 := mpk0, ek1 := mpk1, and dk := 1/
√
2(|0⟩|skx0⟩+ |1⟩|skx1⟩) until
A outputs two plaintexts (m∗
0, m∗
1). When A makes a veriﬁcation query, B just
returns a random bit. Let U be the unitary that performs the rest of A’s actions
given the challenge ciphertexts. Also, let q be the internal state of A at this
point. Then, from the averaging argument and the fact that B correctly answers
to A’s veriﬁcation query with probability 1/2, with some inverse polynomial
probability, the quantum decoder D = (U, q) is a decoder that can predict b from
PKE.Enc(ek0, m∗
a) and PKE.Enc(ek1, m∗
a⊕b) with probability 1/2 + 1/poly(λ) for
some polynomial poly. Thus, by using the extractor that is guaranteed to exist
by Fact 3, B can obtain both x0 and x1 with some inverse polynomial probability,
which contradicts Fact 4. This means that PKE satisﬁes CoIC-KLA security.
Extension to Advanced Encryption Systems with Secure Key Leasing. We also
provide constructions of advanced encryption schemes such as ABE and FE with
secure key leasing. We do not focus on IBE in this paper since IBE is a special
case of ABE and our transformation preserves the underlying function class.4
We construct these schemes by carefully combining standard ABE (resp. FE)
with PKE-SKL in the way that each decryption key of the resulting ABE-SKL
(resp. FE-SKL) scheme includes a decryption key of the underlying PKE-SKL
scheme and a ciphertext of the ABE-SKL (resp. FE-SKL) scheme cannot be
decrypted without the decryption key of the underlying PKE-SKL scheme. By
doing so, our ABE-SKL and FE-SKL take over the secure key leasing security
from the underlying PKE-SKL. Moreover, since PKE-SKL can be based on any
PKE, our ABE-SKL and FE-SKL can be based on any standard ABE and FE,
respectively.
ABE-SKL. Here, we provide an overview of ABE with secure key leasing. Let
us start with the deﬁnition of plain ABE (without key leasing). An ABE scheme
ABE consists of four algorithms (ABE.Setup, ABE.KG, ABE.Enc, ABE.Dec) and is
associated with a relation R. Given a security parameter, ABE.Setup outputs a
master public key mpk and a master secret key msk. ABE.KG takes as input msk
and a key attribute y and outputs a user secret key sky tied to the attribute
y. ABE.Enc takes as input mpk, a ciphertext attribute x, and a message msg
and outputs a ciphertext ct. The decryption of the ciphertext is possible only
when R(x, y) = 1. For this reason, we call a user secret key for attribute y
satisfying R(x, y) = 1 a decrypting key (for a ciphertext associated with x).
As for the security, we require that ABE.Enc(x∗, m∗
0) should be computationally
indistinguishable from ABE.Enc(x∗, m∗
1) as long as an adversary is only given
non-decrypting keys for the ciphertext (i.e., user secret keys for y satisfying
R(x∗, y) = 0).
We now deﬁne the notion of ABE with secure key leasing (ABE-SKL) by
extending the syntax of ABE. The diﬀerence from the above is that the key
4 Although ABE is a special case of FE, we need stronger assumptions for (collusion-
resistant) FE to instantiate them. In addition, the security level of FE-SKL that we
can achieve is diﬀerent from that of ABE-SKL. Hence, we consider both ABE and
FE.

592
S. Agrawal et al.
generation algorithm is now quantum and it outputs user secret key usk y along
with veriﬁcation key vk. We also additionally introduce a veriﬁcation algorithm
that takes vk and a quantum state usk ′ and outputs ⊤if it judges that the
user secret key corresponding to vk is correctly returned and ⊥otherwise. As
for the security, we require that ABE.Enc(x∗, m0) should be computationally
indistinguishable from ABE.Enc(x∗, m1) if the adversary returns all decrypting
keys before it is given the challenge ciphertext. Here, we say the adversary returns
the key if the adversary provides the challenger with a quantum state that makes
the veriﬁcation algorithm output ⊤.
For the construction, the basic idea is to use ABE for access control and
PKE-SKL for obtaining security against key leasing attacks. To enable this idea,
we encrypt a message m for an attribute x so that the decryptor recovers PKE-
SKL ciphertext skl.ct = SKL.Enc(skl.ek, m) if it has decrypting key and nothing
otherwise, where skl.ek is an individual encryption key corresponding to the user.
The user is given the corresponding decryption key skl.dk and can recover the
message by decrypting skl.ct. Roughly speaking, the security follows since (1) a
user with a non-decrypting key cannot obtain any information and (2) even a
user with a decrypting key cannot recover the message from skl.ct once it returns
skl.dk due to the security of SKL.
The generation of user individual SKL ciphertext is somewhat non-trivial
since ABE can only encrypt a single message. In order to achieve this, we use
an idea similar to [23,32] that combines encryption with the garbled circuits. In
particular, we garble the encryption circuit of SKL that hardwires a message and
encrypt the labels by ABE. We then provide a secret key of ABE for a user only
for the positions corresponding to skl.ek. This allows a user with decrypting key
to recover the labels corresponding to skl.ek and then run the garbled circuit on
input the labels to recover skl.ct.
Unfortunately, the introduction of the garbled circuits in the construction
poses some limitations on the security of the scheme. In particular, once the
adversary obtains two decrypting user secret keys, the message can be revealed
from the garbled circuit in the ciphertext since the security of garbled circuits is
compromised when labels for two diﬀerent inputs are revealed. Therefore, we are
only able to prove 1-bounded distinguishing key security,5 where the adversary
can make a single decrypting key query and should return the key before the
challenge ciphertext is given. We note that the adversary can make an arbitrary
number of non-decrypting key queries throughout the game, unlike bounded
collusion ABE [21,26] and only the number of decrypting keys is bounded.
Ideally, we would like to have a scheme without restriction on the num-
ber of decrypting keys. However, we do not know how to achieve it without
strong assumptions like functional encryption or indistinguishability obfusca-
tion. Instead, we achieve intermediate security notion that we call q-bounded
5 When we consider the security game for ABE-SKL, a decrypting key can be used
for distinguishing the challenge bit by decrypting the challenge ciphertext (if it is
not returned). Therefore, we use the term “decrypting key” and “distinguishing key”
interchangeably.

Public Key Encryption with Secure Key Leasing
593
distinguishing key security without introducing additional assumption, where
the number of decrypting keys is bounded by some pre-determined polynomial.
To do so, we use the same idea as [26], which converts single bounded collusion
ABE into q-bounded collusion ABE. The construction is based on the balls and
bins idea, where we prepare multiple “bins”, each of which consists of multi-
ple instances of 1-bounded distinguishing key secure ABE-SKL 1ABE. The key
generation algorithm chooses a single instance from each bin randomly and gen-
erates a user secret key for each of them. The encryption algorithm secret shares
the message and encrypts them using the instances of the 1ABE so that the same
share is encrypted by the instances in the same bin. By careful choices of the
parameters and analysis, in the security proof, we can argue that there exists
a bin such that 1ABE instances used for generating decrypting keys in that bin
are all distinct. This means that for every 1ABE instance in that bin, only a sin-
gle decrypting key is generated and thus, we can use 1-bounded distinguishing
key security for each of them. While this overall proof strategy is the same as
[26], our proof is a little bit more complex than theirs because the adversary is
allowed to make an unbounded number of (non-decrypting) key queries.
PKFE-SKL. We move to the overview of PKFE-SKL. In this work, we focus
on Key-Policy FE (KPFE) with secure key leasing. We start with the deﬁni-
tion of plain FE (without key leasing). An FE scheme FE consists of four algo-
rithms (FE.Setup, FE.KG, FE.Enc, FE.Dec) and is associated with a function class
F. Given a security parameter, FE.Setup outputs a public key pk and a master
secret key msk. FE.KG takes as input msk and a function f ∈F and outputs a
functional decryption key skf tied to the function f. FE.Enc takes as input pk
and a plaintext x and outputs a ciphertext ct. The decryption result is f(x).
For security, we require that FE.Enc(pk, x0) should be computationally indistin-
guishable from FE.Enc(pk, x1) as long as an adversary is only given functional
decryption keys for {fi}i such that fi(x0) = fi(x1) for all i.
We deﬁne the notion of FE with secure key leasing (FE-SKL) by extending
the syntax of FE like ABE-SKL. The key generation algorithm is now quantum
and it outputs functional decryption key sk f along with veriﬁcation key vk. We
also introduce a veriﬁcation algorithm that takes vk and a quantum state sk ′
and outputs ⊤if it judges that the functional decryption key corresponding to
vk is correctly returned and ⊥otherwise.
In the security game of PKFE-SKL, the adversary can send a distinguishing
key query f such that f(x∗
0) ̸= f(x∗
1) where (x∗
0, x∗
1) are the challenge plain-
texts as long as it returns a valid functional decryption key for f. We consider
a security game where the adversary can send unbounded polynomially many
distinguishing and non-distinguishing (that is, f(x∗
0) = f(x∗
1)) key queries and
tries to distinguish FE.Enc(pk, x0) from FE.Enc(pk, x1).
We transform a (classical) PKFE scheme into a PKFE scheme with secure
key leasing by using the power of PKE-SKL. The basic idea is as follows. When
we generate a functional decryption key for function f, we generate a key triple of
PKE-SKL and a functional decryption key of the classical PKFE for a function
W that computes a PKE-SKL ciphertext of f(x). That is, we wrap f(x) by

594
S. Agrawal et al.
PKE-SKL encryption. A decryption key of PKE-SKL is appended to fe.skW ,
which is the functional decryption key for W. Hence, we can decrypt the PKE-
SKL ciphertext and obtain f(x). The PKE-SKL decryption key for f is useless
for another function g since we use diﬀerent key triples of PKE-SKL for each
function.
More speciﬁcally, we generate PKE-SKL keys (skl.ek, skl.sk , skl.vk) and
a PKFE functional decryption key fe.skW
←
FE.KG(fe.msk, W[f, skl.ek]),
where function W[f, skl.ek] takes as input x and outputs a PKE-SKL
ciphertext SKL.Enc(skl.ek, f(x)).6 A functional decryption key for f
con-
sists of (fe.skW , skl.sk ). A ciphertext of x is a (classical) PKFE ciphertext
FE.Enc(fe.pk, x). If we return skl.sk for f (veriﬁed by skl.vk) before we obtain
FE.Enc(fe.pk, x), we cannot obtain f(x) from SKL.Enc(skl.ek, f(x)) by the secu-
rity of PKE-SKL.
We need to prove security against an adversary that obtains a functional
decryption key for f such that f(x∗
0) ̸= f(x∗
1) where (x∗
0, x∗
1) is a pair of challenge
plaintexts if the adversary returns the functional decryption key. To handle this
issue, we rely on IND-KLA security and need to embed a challenge ciphertext of
PKE-SKL into a PKFE ciphertext. We use the trapdoor method of FE (a.k.a.
Trojan method) [6,14] for this purpose. We embed an SKFE functional decryp-
tion key and ciphertext in a PKFE functional decryption key and ciphertext,
respectively. We use these SKFE functional decryption key and ciphertext for
the trapdoor mode of PKFE. We gradually change SKFE ciphertexts and keys
so that we can embed a PKE-SKL challenge ciphertext by using the adaptively
single-ciphertext function privacy of SKFE. Once we succeed in embedding a
PKE-SKL challenge ciphertext, we can change a ciphertext of x∗
0 into a cipher-
text of x∗
1 such that f(x∗
0) ̸= f(x∗
1) as long as the functional decryption key
sk f = (fe.skW , skl.sk ) for f is returned. This is because skl.sk is returned and we
can use IND-KLA security under skl.ek.
1.4
Other Related Work
Quantum Copy Protection. Aaronson [1] introduced the notion of quantum copy
protection and constructed a quantum copy protection scheme for arbitrary
unlearnable Boolean functions relative to a quantum oracle. He also provided
two heuristic copy-protection schemes for point functions in the standard model.
Coladangelo et al. [18] provided a quantum copy-protection scheme for a class of
evasive functions in the QROM. Subsequently, Aaronson et al. [3] constructed a
quantum copy protection scheme for unlearnable functions relative to classical
oracles. By instantiating the oracle with post-quantum candidate obfuscation
schemes, they obtained a heuristic construction of copy protection. Coladangelo
et al. [17] provided a copy-protection scheme for pseudorandom functions in the
plain model assuming iO, OWF and extractable witness encryption, or assum-
ing subexponential iO, subexponential OWF, LWE and a strong “monogamy
6 We ignore the issue of encryption randomness here. In our construction, we use
(puncturable) PRFs to generate encryption randomness.

Public Key Encryption with Secure Key Leasing
595
property” (which was was proven to be true in a follow-up work [19]). Ananth et
al. [7,8] also constructed copy protection for point functions, which in turn can
be transformed into copy protection for compute-and-compare programs. Sat-
tath and Wyborski [33] studied unclonable decryptors, which are an extension
of SDE. Their unclonable decryptors scheme is secret key encryption and can be
instantiated with iO and OWF, or quantum oracles.
Secure Software Leasing. Secure software leasing (SSL) was introduced by Ananth
and La Placa [9], where they also provided the ﬁrst SSL scheme supporting a sub-
class of “evasive” functions by relying on the existence of public key quantum
money and the learning with errors assumption. Evasive functions is a class of func-
tions for which it is hard to ﬁnd an accepting input given only black-box access
to the function. Their construction achieves a strong security notion called inﬁ-
nite term security. They also demonstrate that there exists an unlearnable func-
tion class such that it is impossible to achieve an SSL scheme for that function
class, even in the CRS model. Later, Coladangelo et al. [18] improved the secu-
rity notion achieved by [9] by relying on the QROM, for the same class of eva-
sive functions. Additionally, Kitagawa, Nishimaki and Yamakawa [29] provided
a ﬁnite term secure SSL scheme for pseudorandom functions (PRFs) in the CRS
model by assuming the hardness of the LWE problem against polynomial time
quantum adversaries. Additionally, this work achieves classical communication.
Further, Broadbent et al. [16] showed that SSL is achievable for the aforemen-
tioned evasive circuits without any setup or computational assumptions that were
required by previous work, but with ﬁnite term security, quantum communication
and correctness based on a distribution. The notion of secure leasing for the pow-
erful primitive of functional encryption was studied by Kitagawa and Nishimaki
[27], who introduced the notion of secret key functional encryption (SKFE) with
secure key leasing and provided a transformation from standard SKFE into SKFE
with secure key leasing without relying on any additional assumptions.
Certiﬁed Deletion. Broadbent and Islam [15] introduced the notion of quantum
encryption with certiﬁed deletion, where we can generate a (classical) certiﬁcate
to ensure that a ciphertext is deleted. They constructed a one-time SKE scheme
with certiﬁed deletion without computational assumptions. After that, many
works presented various quantum encryption primitives (PKE, ABE, FE and so
on) with certiﬁed deletion [10,24,25,31]. The root of quantum encryption with
certiﬁed deletion is revocable quantum time-released encryption by Unruh [34]. It
is an extension of time-released encryption where a sender can revoke quantum
encrypted data before a pre-determined time. If the revocation succeeds, the
receiver cannot obtain the plaintext information.
2
Preliminaries
Notations and Conventions. In this paper, standard math or sans serif font
stands for classical algorithms (e.g., C or Gen) and classical variables (e.g., x or
pk). Calligraphic font stands for quantum algorithms (e.g., Gen) and calligraphic
font and/or the bracket notation for (mixed) quantum states (e.g., q or |ψ⟩).

596
S. Agrawal et al.
Let [ℓ] denote the set of integers {1, · · · , ℓ}, λ denote a security parameter,
and y := z denote that y is set, deﬁned, or substituted by z. For a ﬁnite set X
and a distribution D, x ←X denotes selecting an element from X uniformly at
random, x ←D denotes sampling an element x according to D. Let y ←A(x)
and y ←A(x ) denote assigning to y the output of a probabilistic or deterministic
algorithm A and a quantum algorithm A on an input x and x , respectively.
When we explicitly show that A uses randomness r, we write y ←A(x; r). PPT
and QPT algorithms stand for probabilistic polynomial-time algorithms and
polynomial-time quantum algorithms, respectively. Let negl denote a negligible
function. For strings x, y ∈{0, 1}n, x · y denotes 
i∈[n] xiyi where xi and yi
denote the ith bit of x and y, respectively.
Standard Cryptographic Tools. We omit the deﬁnitions of standard crypto-
graphic tools including SKE, PKE, ABE, FE, puncturable PRFs, and garbling
schemes. See Sect. 2.1 of the full version for their deﬁnitions.
3
Public Key Encryption with Secure Key Leasing
We deﬁne PKE-SKL and its security notions and show a relationship between
them.
Deﬁnition 3.1 (PKE with Secure Key Leasing). A PKE-SKL scheme SKL
is a tuple of four algorithms (KG, Enc, Dec, Vrfy). Below, let X be the message
space of SKL.
KG(1λ) →(ek, dk , vk): The key generation algorithm takes a security parameter
1λ, and outputs an encryption key ek, a decryption key dk , and a veriﬁcation
key vk.
Enc(ek, m) →ct: The encryption algorithm takes an encryption key ek and a
message m ∈X, and outputs a ciphertext ct.
Dec(dk , ct) →˜m: The decryption algorithm takes a decryption key dk and a
ciphertext ct, and outputs a value ˜m.
Vrfy(vk, 
dk ) →⊤/⊥: The veriﬁcation algorithm takes a veriﬁcation key vk and a
(possibly malformed) decryption key 
dk , and outputs ⊤or ⊥.
Decryption correctness: For every m ∈X, we have
Pr

Dec(dk , ct) = m

(ek, dk , vk) ←KG(1λ)
ct ←Enc(ek, m)

= 1 −negl(λ).
Veriﬁcation correctness: We have
Pr

Vrfy(vk, dk ) = ⊤
(ek, dk , vk) ←KG(1λ)

= 1 −negl(λ).
Remark 3.1. We can assume without loss of generality that a decryption key of
a PKE-SKL scheme is reusable, i.e., it can be reused to decrypt (polynomially)
many ciphertexts. In particular, we can asusme that for honestly generated ct
and dk , if we decrypt ct by using dk , the state of the decryption key after the

Public Key Encryption with Secure Key Leasing
597
decryption is negligibly close to that before the decryption in terms of trace
distance. This is because the output of the decryption is almost deterministic by
decryption correctness, and thus such an operation can be done without almost
disturbing the input state by the gentle measurement lemma [36]. A similar
remark applies to all variants of PKE-SKL (IBE, ABE, and FE with SKL)
deﬁned in this paper.
Remark 3.2. Though we are the ﬁrst to deﬁne PKE with secure key leasing,
SKFE with secure key leasing was already deﬁned by Kitagawa and Nishi-
maki [27]. The above deﬁnition is a natural adaptation of their deﬁnition with
the important diﬀerence that we do not require classical certiﬁcate of deletion.
We deﬁne two security deﬁnitions for PKE-SKL, IND-KLA and OW-KLA
security.
Deﬁnition 3.2 (IND-KLA Security). We say that a PKE-SKL scheme SKL
with the message space X is IND-KLA secure, if it satisﬁes the following require-
ment, formalized from the experiment Expind-kla
SKL,A (1λ, coin) between an adversary
A and a challenger C:
1. C runs (ek, dk , vk) ←KG(1λ) and sends ek and dk to A.
2. Throughout the experiment, A can access the following (stateful) veriﬁcation
oracle OVrfy where V is initialized to be ⊥:
OVrfy(
dk ): It runs d ←Vrfy(vk, 
dk ) and returns d. If V = ⊥and d = ⊤, it
updates V := ⊤.
3. A sends (m∗
0, m∗
1) ∈X 2 to C. If V = ⊥, C output 0 as the ﬁnal output of this
experiment. Otherwise, C generates ct∗←Enc(ek, m∗
coin) and sends ct∗to A.
4. A outputs a guess coin′ for coin. C outputs coin′ as the ﬁnal output of the
experiment.
For any QPT A, it holds that
Advind-kla
SKL,A (λ) :=
Pr[Expind-kla
SKL,A (1λ, 0) →1] −Pr[Expind-kla
SKL,A (1λ, 1) →1]
 ≤negl(λ).
We say that SKL is 1-query IND-KLA secure if the above holds for any QPT A
that makes at most one query to OVrfy.
Remark 3.3. When we consider a 1-query adversary, we can assume that its
query is made before receiving the challenge ciphertext ct∗without loss of gen-
erality. This is because otherwise the experiment always outputs 0.
Remark 3.4. By a standard hybrid argument, one can show that IND-KLA secu-
rity implies multi-challenge IND-KLA security where the adversary is allowed
to request arbitrarily many challenge ciphertexts. Thus, if we have an IND-KLA
secure PKE-SKL scheme for single-bit messages, we can extend the plaintext
length to an arbitrary polynomial by bit-by-bit encryption.

598
S. Agrawal et al.
Deﬁnition 3.3 (OW-KLA Security). We say that a PKE-SKL scheme SKL
with the message space X is OW-KLA secure, if it satisﬁes the following require-
ment, formalized from the experiment Expow-kla
SKL,A (1λ) between an adversary A and
a challenger C:
1. C runs (ek, dk , vk) ←KG(1λ) and sends ek and dk to A.
2. Throughout the experiment, A can access the following (stateful) veriﬁcation
oracle OVrfy where V is initialized to be ⊥:
OVrfy(
dk ): It runs d ←Vrfy(vk, 
dk ) and returns d. If V = ⊥and d = ⊤, it
updates V := ⊤.
3. A sends RequestChallenge to C. If V = ⊥, C outputs 0 as the ﬁnal output of
this experiment. Otherwise, C chooses m∗←X, generates ct∗←Enc(ek, m∗)
and sends ct∗to A.
4. A outputs m. C outputs 1 if m = m∗and otherwise outputs 0 as the ﬁnal
output of the experiment.
For any QPT A, it holds that
Advow-kla
SKL,A (λ) := Pr[Expow-kla
SKL,A (1λ) →1] ≤negl(λ).
We say that SKL is 1-query OW-KLA secure if the above holds for any QPT A
that makes at most one query to OVrfy.
We show the following theorem.
Theorem 3.1 If there exists a 1-query OW-KLA secure PKE-SKL scheme,
there exists an IND-KLA secure PKE-SKL scheme.
Thus, it suﬃces to construct 1-query OW-KLA secure scheme for constructing
IND-KLA secure scheme. The proof is based on quantum Goldreich-Levin lemma
with quantum auxiliar inputs [4,17] and goes through an additional security
notion called one-more unreturnability (OMUR). See Sect. 3.2 of the full version
for the proof.
4
Public Key Encryption with CoIC-KLA Security
We introduce a new security notion called CoIC-KLA security for PKE, and
construct a PKE scheme that satisﬁes it based on any IND-CPA secure PKE
scheme. Looking ahead, it is used as a building block of our construction of
PKE-SKL in Sec. 5.
4.1
Deﬁnition
Deﬁnition 4.1 (CoIC-KLA Security). We say that a PKE scheme PKE with
the message space X is CoIC-KLA secure, if it satisﬁes the following require-
ment, formalized from the experiment Expcoic-kla
PKE,A (1λ) between an adversary A and
a challenger C:

Public Key Encryption with Secure Key Leasing
599
1. C runs (ek0, dk0) ←KG(1λ) and (ek1, dk1) ←KG(1λ), and generates dk :=
1
√
2(|0⟩|dk0⟩+ |1⟩|dk1⟩). C sends ek0, ek1, and dk to A. A can get access to
the following oracle only once.
O(
dk ): On input a possibly malformed decryption key 
dk , it applies a binary-
outcome measurement (I −Πvrfy, Πvrfy), where Πvrfy is the projection to
the right decryption key, i.e.,
Πvrfy :=
	 1
√
2 (|0⟩|dk0⟩+ |1⟩|dk1⟩)

 	 1
√
2 (⟨0| ⟨dk0| + ⟨1| ⟨dk1|)

.
It returns the measurement outcome (indicating whether the state was
projected onto Πvrfy or not).
2. A sends (m∗
0, m∗
1) ∈X 2 to C. C generates a, b ←{0, 1} and generates ct∗
0 ←
Enc(ek0, m∗
a) and ct∗
1 ←Enc(ek1, m∗
a⊕b). C sends ct∗
0 and ct∗
1 to A.
3. A outputs a guess b′ for b. C outputs 1 if b = b′ and 0 otherwise as the ﬁnal
output of the experiment.
For any QPT A, it holds that
Advcoic-kla
PKE,A (λ) := 2 ·
Pr[Expcoic-kla
PKE,A (1λ) →1] −1
2
 ≤negl(λ).
4.2
Construction
We construct a CoIC-KLA secure PKE PKE = (Gen, Enc, Dec) using a 1-key
CPFE scheme CPFE = (CPFE.Setup, CPFE.KG, CPFE.Enc, CPFE.Dec) as a build-
ing block.
Gen(1λ):
– Generate (MPK, MSK) ←CPFE.Setup(1λ).
– Generate x ←{0, 1}λ and skx ←CPFE.KG(MSK, x).
– Output ek := MPK and dk := skx.
Enc(ek, m):
– Parse ek = MPK.
– Let C[m] be a constant circuit that outputs m on any input. C is padded
so that it has the same size as the circuit C∗appeared in the security
proof.
– Output ct ←CPFE.Enc(MPK, C[m]).
Dec(dk, ct):
– Parse dk = skx.
– Output m′ ←CPFE.Dec(skx, ct).
The decryption correctness of PKE follows from that of CPFE. We show the
following theorem.
Theorem 4.1. If CPFE is 1-key secure, then PKE is CoIC-KLA secure.

600
S. Agrawal et al.
In the full version, we actually prove that PKE satisﬁes a security notion
called strong CoIC-KLA security, which implies CoIC-KLA security. See Sect. 4.3
of the full version for the proof.
Since 1-key CPFE exists if IND-CPA secure PKE exists, the above theorem
implies the following theorem.
Theorem 4.2. If there is an IND-CPA secure PKE scheme, then there is a
CoIC-KLA secure PKE scheme.
5
Construction of PKE-SKL
Let cPKE = (cPKE.KG, cPKE.Enc, cPKE.Dec) be a PKE scheme satisfying
CoIC-KLA security with message space {0, 1}ℓwhere ℓ= ω(log λ). Then, we
construct a PKE-SKL scheme (SKL.KG, SKL.Enc, SKL.Dec, SKL.Vrfy) with mes-
sage space {0, 1}λℓas follows.
SKL.KG(1λ):
– Generate (cPKE.eki,b, cPKE.dki,b) ←cPKE.KG(1λ) for i ∈[λ] and b ∈
{0, 1}.
– Output an encryption key
ek := {cPKE.eki,b}i∈[λ],b∈{0,1},
a decryption key
dk :=

i∈[λ]
1
√
2 (|0⟩|cPKE.dki,0⟩+ |1⟩|cPKE.dki,1⟩) ,
and a veriﬁcation key
vk := {cPKE.dki,b}i∈[λ],b∈{0,1}.
SKL.Enc(ek, m):
– Parse ek = {cPKE.eki,b}i∈[λ],b∈{0,1} and m = m1∥. . . ∥mλ where mi ∈
{0, 1}ℓfor each i ∈[λ].
– Generate cPKE.cti,b ←cPKE.Enc(cPKE.eki,b, mi) for i ∈[λ] and b ∈
{0, 1}.
– Output ct := {cPKE.cti,b}i∈[λ],b∈{0,1}.
SKL.Dec(dk , ct):
– Parse dk = 
i∈[λ] dk i and ct = {cPKE.cti,b}i∈[λ],b∈{0,1}.
– Let Udec be a unitary such that for all cPKE.dk′, cPKE.ct′
0, and cPKE.ct′
1:
|b⟩|cPKE.dk′⟩|cPKE.ct′
0, cPKE.ct′
1⟩|0⟩
Udec
−−−→|b⟩|cPKE.dk′⟩|cPKE.ct′
0, cPKE.ct′
1⟩|cPKE.Dec(cPKE.dk′, cPKE.ct′
b)⟩
Note that such a unitary can be computed in quantum polynomial-time
since we assume that cPKE.Dec is a deterministic classical polynomial-
time algorithm.

Public Key Encryption with Secure Key Leasing
601
– For all i ∈[λ], generate
Udec (dk i ⊗|cPKE.cti,0, cPKE.cti,1⟩⟨cPKE.cti,0, cPKE.cti,1| ⊗|0⟩⟨0|) U †
dec,
measure the rightmost register, and let m′
i be the measurement outcome.
– Output m′ := m′
1∥. . . ∥m′
λ.
SKL.Vrfy(vk, 
dk ):
– Parse vk = {cPKE.dki,b}i∈[λ],b∈{0,1}.
– Apply a binary-outcome measurement (I−Πvk
vrfy, Πvk
vrfy) on 
dk where Πvk
vrfy
is the projection onto the right decryption key, i.e.,
Πvk
vrfy :=

i∈[λ]
	 1
√
2 (|0⟩|cPKE.dki,0⟩+ |1⟩|cPKE.dki,1⟩)

	 1
√
2 (⟨0| ⟨cPKE.dki,0| + ⟨1| ⟨cPKE.dki,1|)

.
If the measurement outcome is 1 (indicating that the state was projected
onto Πvk
vrfy), output ⊤and otherwise output ⊥.
The correctness of SKL easily follows from that of cPKE. Below, we show
that SKL is 1-query OW-KLA secure.
Theorem 5.1. If cPKE is CoIC-KLA secure, then SKL is 1-query OW-KLA
secure.
See Sect. 5 of the full version for the proof.
By combining Theorems 3.1, 4.2 and 5.1, we obtain the following theorem.
Theorem 5.2. If there is an IND-CPA secure PKE scheme, then there is an
IND-KLA secure PKE-SKL scheme.
6
Attribute-based Encryption with Secure Key Leasing
6.1
Deﬁnitions
The syntax of ABE-SKL and its security are deﬁned as follows.
Deﬁnition 6.1 (ABE with Secure Key Leasing). An ABE-SKL scheme
ABE-SKL is a tuple of six algorithms (Setup, KG, Enc, Dec, Cert, Vrfy). Below, let
X = {Xλ}λ, Y = {Yλ}λ, and R = {Rλ : Xλ × Yλ →{0, 1}}λ be the ciphertext
space, the key attribute space, and the associated relation of ABE-SKL, respec-
tively.
Setup(1λ) →(pk, msk): The setup algorithm takes a security parameter 1λ, and
outputs a public key pk and master secret key msk.
KG(msk, y) →(usk , vk): The key generation algorithm takes a master secret key
msk and a key attribute y ∈Y, and outputs a user secret key usk and a
veriﬁcation key vk.

602
S. Agrawal et al.
Enc(pk, x, m) →ct: The encryption algorithm takes a public key pk, a ciphertext
attribute x ∈X, and a plaintext m, and outputs a ciphertext ct.
Dec(usk , x, ct) →z: The decryption algorithm takes a user secret key usk , a
ciphertext attribute x, and a ciphertext ct and outputs a value z ∈{⊥} ∪
{0, 1}ℓ.
Vrfy(vk, usk ′) →⊤/⊥: The veriﬁcation algorithm takes a veriﬁcation key vk and
a quantum state usk ′, and outputs ⊤or ⊥.
Decryption correctness: For every x ∈X and y ∈Y satisfying R(x, y) = 1,
we have
Pr
⎡
⎣Dec(usk , x, ct) = m

(pk, msk) ←Setup(1λ)
(usk , vk) ←KG(msk, y)
ct ←Enc(pk, x, m)
⎤
⎦= 1 −negl(λ).
Veriﬁcation correctness: For every y ∈Y, we have
Pr

Vrfy(vk, usk ) = ⊤

(pk, msk) ←Setup(1λ)
(usk , vk) ←KG(msk, y)

= 1 −negl(λ).
Deﬁnition 6.2 (Adaptive/Selective Indistinguishability against Key
Leasing Attacks). We say that an ABE-SKL scheme ABE-SKL for relation
R : X × Y →{0, 1} is secure against adaptive indistinguishability against key
leasing attacks (Ada-IND-KLA), if it satisﬁes the following requirement, formal-
ized from the experiment Expada-ind-kla
A,ABE-SKL(1λ, coin) between an adversary A and a
challenger:
1. At the beginning, the challenger runs (pk, msk) ←Setup(1λ) and initialize
the list LKG to be an empty set. Throughout the experiment, A can access the
following oracles.
OKG(y): Given y, it ﬁnds an entry of the form (y, vk, V ) from LKG. If
there is such an entry, it returns ⊥. Otherwise, it generates (usk , vk) ←
KG(msk, y), sends usk to A, and adds (y, vk, ⊥) to LKG.
OVrfy(y, usk ′): Given (y, usk ′), it ﬁnds an entry (y, vk, V ) from LKG. (If there
is no such entry, it returns ⊥.) It then runs d := Vrfy(vk, usk ′) and returns
d to A. If V = ⊥, it updates the entry into (y, vk, d).
2. When A sends (x∗, m0, m1) to the challenger, the challenger checks if for any
entry (y, vk, V ) in LKG such that R(x∗, y) = 1, it holds that V = ⊤. If so, the
challenger generates ct∗←Enc(pk, x∗, mcoin) and sends ct∗to A. Otherwise,
the challenger outputs 0.
3. A continues to make queries to OKG(·) and OVrfy(·, ·). However, A is not
allowed to send a key attribute y such that R(x∗, y) = 1 to OKG.
4. A outputs a guess coin′ for coin. The challenger outputs coin′ as the ﬁnal
output of the experiment.
For any QPT A, it holds that
Advada-lessor
PKFE-SKL,A(λ) :=
Pr[Expada-lessor
ABE-SKL,A(1λ, 0) →1] −Pr[Expada-lessor
ABE-SKL,A(1λ, 1) →1]

≤negl(λ).

Public Key Encryption with Secure Key Leasing
603
We say that ABE-SKL is secure against selective indistinguishability against key
leasing attacks (Sel-IND-KLA) if the above holds for all QPT adversaries that
declare x∗at the beginning of the experiment.
Remark 6.1. In Deftinition 6.2, the key generation oracle returns ⊥if the same
y is queried more than once. To handle the situation where multiple keys for
the same attribute y are generated, we need to manage indices for y such as
(y, 1, vk1, V1), (y, 2, vk2, V2). Although we can reﬂect the index management in
the deﬁnition, it complicates the deﬁnition and prevents readers from under-
standing the essential idea.Thus, we use the simpliﬁed deﬁnition above.
We also consider the following security notion where we introduce additional
restriction that the number of distinguishing keys that are issued (and eventually
returned) before ct∗is generated is bounded by some predetermined parameter q.
Here, distinguishing key refers to a key that can decrypt the challenge ciphertext
if it is not returned.
Deﬁnition 6.3 (Bounded Distinguishing Key Ada-IND-KLA/Sel-IND-
KLA for ABE). For deﬁning bounded distinguishing key Ada-IND-KLA secu-
rity, we consider the same security game as that for Ada-IND-KLA (i.e.,
Expada-ind-kla
A,ABE-SKL(1λ, coin)) except that we change the step 2. in Deﬁnition 6.2 with
the following:
2’ When A sends (x∗, m0, m1) to the challenger, the challenger checks if there
are at most q entries (y, vk, V ) in LKG such that R(x∗, y) = 1 and for all these
entries, V = ⊤. If so, the challenger generates ct∗←Enc(pk, x∗, mcoin) and
sends ct∗to A. Otherwise, the challenger outputs 0.
We then deﬁne the advantage Advada-ind-kla
ABE-SKL,A,q(λ) similarly to Advada-ind-kla
ABE-SKL,A(λ).
We say ABE-SKL is q-bounded distinguishing key Ada-IND-KLA secure if for
any QPT adversary A, Advada-ind-kla
ABE-SKL,A,q(λ) is negligible. We also deﬁne q-bounded
distinguishing key Sel-IND-KLA security analogously by enforcing the adversary
to output its target x∗at the beginning of the game.
We emphasize that while the number of distinguishing keys that the adver-
sary can obtain in the game is bounded by a ﬁxed polynomial, the number of
non-distinguishing keys (i.e., keys for y with R(x∗, y) = 0) can be unbounded.
6.2
1-Bounded Distinguishing Key Construction
We
construct
an
ABE-SKL
scheme
1ABE
=
(Setup, KG, Enc, Dec, Vrfy)
for relation R
:
X × Y
→
{0, 1} with 1-bounded distinguishing key
Ada-IND-KLA/Sel-IND-KLA security whose message space is {0, 1}ℓby using
the following building blocks.
– IND-KLA secure PKE-SKL SKL.(KG, Enc, Dec, Vrfy). Without loss of gener-
ality, we assume that skl.ek ∈{0, 1}ℓek and the randomness space used by
SKL.Enc is {0, 1}ℓrand for some ℓek(λ) and ℓrand(λ). We also assume that the
message space of SKL is {0, 1}ℓ.
– Adaptively/Selectively secure ABE ABE.(Setup, KG, Enc, Dec) for relation R
with message space {0, 1}λ.

604
S. Agrawal et al.
– A garbling scheme GC = (Grbl, GCEval). Without loss of generality, we assume
that the labels of GC are in {0, 1}λ.
Setup(1λ):
– For i ∈[ℓek] and b ∈{0, 1}, run (abe.pki,b, abe.mski,b) ←ABE.Setup(1λ).
– Output (pk, msk) := ({abe.pki,b}i∈[ℓek],b∈{0,1}, {abe.mski,b}i∈[ℓek],b∈{0,1}).
KG(msk, y):
– Generate (skl.ek, skl.dk , skl.vk) ←SKL.KG(1λ).
– Run abe.ski ←ABE.KG(ABE.mski,skl.ek[i], y) for i ∈[ℓek], where skl.ek[i]
denotes the i-th bit of the binary string skl.ek.
– Output usk := ({abe.ski}i∈[ℓek], skl.ek, skl.dk ) and vk := skl.vk.
Enc(pk, x, m):
– Choose R ←{0, 1}ℓrand.
– Construct circuit E[m, R], which is a circuit that takes as input an encryp-
tion key skl.ek of SKL and outputs SKL.Enc(skl.ek, m; R).
– Compute ({labi,b}i∈[ℓek],b∈{0,1}, E) ←Grbl(1λ, E[m, R]).
– Run abe.cti,b ←ABE.Enc(abe.pki,b, x, labi,b) for i ∈[ℓek] and b ∈{0, 1}.
– Output ct := ({abe.cti,b}i∈[ℓek],b∈{0,1}, E).
Dec(usk , x, ct):
– Parse usk = ({abe.ski}i∈[ℓek], skl.ek, skl.dk ) and
ct = ({abe.cti,b}i∈[ℓek],b∈{0,1}, E).
– Compute labi ←ABE.Dec(ABE.ski, x, abe.cti,skl.ek[i]) for i ∈[ℓek].
– Compute skl.ct = GCEval( E, {labi}i∈[ℓek]).
– Compute and output m′ ←SKL.Dec(skl.dk , skl.ct).
Vrfy(vk, usk ′):
– Parse vk = skl.vk and usk ′ = ({abe.ski}i∈[ℓek], skl.ek′, skl.dk ′).
– Compute and output SKL.Vrfy(skl.vk, skl.dk ′).
We show that the scheme satisﬁes decryption correctness. To see this, we ﬁrst
observe that the decryption algorithm correctly recovers labels of E correspond-
ing to the input skl.ek by the correctness of ABE. Therefore, skl.ct recovered by
the garbled circuit evaluation equals to SKL.Enc(skl.ek, m; R) by the correctness
of GC. Then, the message m is recovered in the last step by the correctness of
SKL. We can also see that the veriﬁcation correctness follows from that of SKL.
Theorem 6.1. If ABE is adaptively (resp., selectively) secure, GC is secure,
and SKL is IND-KLA secure, then 1ABE above is 1-bounded distinguishing key
Ada-IND-KLA (resp., Sel-IND-KLA) secure.
See Sect. 6.2 of the full version for the proof.
6.3
Q-Bounded Distinguishing Key Construction
By using the technique of [26], we can upgrade 1-bounded distinguishing key
security to Q-bounded distinguishing key security for any polynomial Q = Q(λ).
Then we obtain the following theorem.

Public Key Encryption with Secure Key Leasing
605
Theorem 6.2. If there exists an adaptively (resp., selectively) secure an ABE
scheme for relation R, then for any polynomial Q = Q(λ), there is a Q-bounded
distinguishing key Ada-IND-KLA (resp., Sel-IND-KLA) secure ABE scheme for
relation R.
See Sect. 6.3 of the full version for the proof.
We remark that Theorem 6.2
preserves the relation R. Thus, this in particular gives a compiler that upgrades
(selectively or adaptively secure) normal IBE into IBE-SKL.
7
Functional Encryption with Secure Key Leasing
7.1
Deﬁnitions
The syntax of FE-SKL is deﬁned as follows.
Deﬁnition 7.1 (PKFE with Secure Key Leasing). A PKFE-SKL scheme
PKFE-SKL is a tuple of six algorithms (Setup, KG, Enc, Dec, Cert, Vrfy). Below,
let X, Y, and F be the plaintext, output, and function spaces of PKFE-SKL,
respectively.
Setup(1λ) →(pk, msk): The setup algorithm takes a security parameter 1λ, and
outputs a public key pk and master secret key msk.
KG(msk, f) →(fsk , vk): The key generation algorithm takes a master secret key
msk and a function f ∈F, and outputs a functional decryption key fsk and
a veriﬁcation key vk.
Enc(pk, x) →ct: The encryption algorithm takes a public key pk and a plaintext
x ∈X, and outputs a ciphertext ct.
Dec(fsk , ct) →x: The decryption algorithm takes a functional decryption key fsk
and a ciphertext ct, and outputs a value ˜x.
Vrfy(vk, fsk ′) →⊤/⊥: The veriﬁcation algorithm takes a veriﬁcation key vk and
a quantum state fsk ′, and outputs ⊤or ⊥.
Decryption correctness: For every x ∈X and f ∈F, we have
Pr
⎡
⎣Dec(fsk , ct) = f(x)

(pk, msk) ←Setup(1λ)
(fsk , vk) ←KG(msk, f)
ct ←Enc(pk, x)
⎤
⎦= 1 −negl(λ).
Veriﬁcation correctness: For every f ∈F, we have
Pr

Vrfy(vk, fsk ) = ⊤

(pk, msk) ←Setup(1λ)
(fsk , vk) ←KG(msk, f)

= 1 −negl(λ).
Remark 7.1. Although Kitagawa and Nishimaki [27] require SKFE-SKL to have
classical certiﬁcate generation algorithm for deletion, we do not since it is
optional.If there exists a PKE-SKL scheme that has a classical certiﬁcate genera-
tion algorithm, our PKFE-SKL scheme also has a classical certiﬁcate generation
algorithm.

606
S. Agrawal et al.
Deﬁnition 7.2 (Adaptive
Indistinguishability
against
Key
Leasing
Attacks). We say that a PKFE-SKL scheme PKFE-SKL for X, Y, and F is
an adaptively indistinguishable secure against key leasing attacks (Ada-IND-
KLA), if it satisﬁes the following requirement, formalized from the experiment
Expada-ind-kla
A,PKFE-SKL(1λ, coin) between an adversary A and a challenger:
1. At the beginning, the challenger runs (pk, msk) ←Setup(1λ). Throughout the
experiment, A can access the following oracles.
OKG(f): Given f, it ﬁnds an entry (f, vk, V ) from LKG. If there is such an
entry, it returns ⊥. Otherwise, it generates (fsk , vk) ←KG(msk, f), sends
fsk to A, and adds (f, vk, ⊥) to LKG.
OVrfy(f, fsk ′): Given (f, fsk ′), it ﬁnds an entry (f, vk, V ) from LKG. (If there
is no such entry, it returns ⊥.) It computes d ←Vrfy(vk, fsk ′) and sends
d to A. If V = ⊤, it does not update LKG. Else if V = ⊥, it updates the
entry by setting V := d.
2. When A sends (x∗
0, x∗
1) to the challenger, the challenger checks if for any
entry (f, vk, V ) in LKG such that f(x∗
0) ̸= f(x∗
1), it holds that V = ⊤. If so,
the challenger generates ct∗←Enc(pk, x∗
coin) and sends ct∗to A. Otherwise,
the challenger outputs 0. Hereafter, A is not allowed to send a function f
such that f(x∗
0) ̸= f(x∗
1) to OKG.
3. A outputs a guess coin′ for coin. The challenger outputs coin′ as the ﬁnal
output of the experiment.
For any QPT A, it holds that
Advada-ind-kla
PKFE-SKL,A(λ) :=
Pr[Expada-ind-kla
PKFE-SKL,A(1λ, 0) →1] −Pr[Expada-ind-kla
PKFE-SKL,A(1λ, 1) →1]

≤negl(λ).
Remark 7.2. Deﬁnition 7.2 assumes that the adversary does not get more than
one decryption key for the same f for simpliﬁcation as Remark 6.1.
7.2
Constructions
We describe our PKFE-SKL scheme in this section. We construct a PKFE-SKL
scheme PKFE-SKL = (Setup, KG, Enc, Dec, Vrfy) by using the following building
blocks.
– IND-KLA secure PKE-SKL SKL = SKL.(KG, Enc, Dec, Vrfy).
– Adaptively secure PKFE FE = FE.(Setup, KG, Enc, Dec).
– Adaptively single-ciphertext function private SKFE SKFE = SKFE.(Setup,
KG, Enc, Dec).
– Pseudorandom-secure SKE SKE = SKE.(Enc, Dec).
– Puncturable PRF PRF = (PRF.Gen, F, Puncture).
We set ℓpad := |skfe.ct| −|x| and ℓske := |ske.ct|, where |x| is the input length of
PKFE-SKL, |skfe.ct| is the ciphertext length of SKFE, and |ske.ct| is the ciphertext
length of SKE.

Public Key Encryption with Secure Key Leasing
607
Setup(1λ):
– Generate (fe.pk, fe.msk) ←FE.Setup(1λ).
– Output (pk, msk) := (fe.pk, fe.msk).
KG(msk, f):
– Generate (skl.ek, skl.sk , skl.vk) ←SKL.KG(1λ).
– Choose ske.ct ←{0, 1}ℓske.
– Construct a circuit W[f, skl.ek, ske.ct], which is described in Fig. 1.
– Generate fe.skW ←FE.KG(fe.msk, W[f, skl.ek, ske.ct]).
– Output fsk := (fe.skW , skl.sk ) and vk := skl.vk.
Enc(pk, x):
– Choose K ←PRF.Gen(1λ).
– Compute fe.ct ←FE.Enc(fe.pk, (x∥0ℓpad, ⊥, K)).
– Output ct := fe.ct.
Dec(fsk , ct):
– Parse fsk = (fe.sk, skl.sk ) and ct = fe.ct.
– Compute skl.ct ←FE.Dec(fe.sk, fe.ct).
– Compute and output y ←SKL.Dec(skl.sk , skl.ct).
Vrfy(vk, fsk ′):
– Parse vk = skl.vk and fsk ′ = (fe.sk′, skl.sk ′).
– Compute and output SKL.Vrfy(skl.vk, skl.sk ′).
Fig. 1. The description of W[f, skl.ek, ske.ct]
The decryption correctness of PKFE-SKL follows from the correctness of FE
and the decryption correctness of SKL. The veriﬁcation correcntess of PKFE-SKL
follows from the veriﬁcation correcntess of SKL. We prove the security of
PKFE-SKL.
Theorem 7.1. If PKFE is adaptively secure, SKFE is adaptively single-
ciphertext function private, PRF is a secure punctured PRF, and SKE has the
ciphertext pseudorandomness, then PKFE-SKL above is Ada-IND-KLA.

608
S. Agrawal et al.
Theorem 7.2. If PKFE is q-bounded adaptively secure, SKFE is adaptively
single-ciphertext function private, PRF is a secure punctured PRF, and SKE
has the ciphertext pseudorandomness, then PKFE-SKL above is q-bounded Ada-
IND-KLA.
The poofs are given in Sect. 7.3 of the full version.
Acknowledgement. This work was supported in part by the DST “Swarnajayanti”
fellowship, Cybersecurity Center of Excellence, IIT Madras, National Blockchain
Project and the Algorand Centres of Excellence programme managed by Algorand
Foundation. Any opinions, ﬁndings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed
in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reﬂect the views of
sponsors. The fourth author was partially supported by JST AIP Acceleration Research
JPMJCR22U5 and JSPS KAKENHI Grant Number 19H01109, Japan.
References
1. Aaronson, S.: Quantum copy-protection and quantum money. In: 2009 24th Annual
IEEE Conference on Computational Complexity, pp. 229–242. IEEE (2009).
https://doi.org/10.1109/ccc.2009.42
2. Aaronson, S., Christiano, P.: Quantum money from hidden subspaces. In: Karloﬀ,
H.J., Pitassi, T. (eds.) 44th ACM STOC, pp. 41–60. ACM Press (2012). https://
doi.org/10.1145/2213977.2213983
3. Aaronson, S., Liu, J., Liu, Q., Zhandry, M., Zhang, R.: New approaches for
quantum copy-protection. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) CRYPTO 2021, Part
I. LNCS, vol. 12825, pp. 526–555. Springer, Heidelberg, Virtual Event (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84242-0 19
4. Adcock, M., Cleve, R.: A quantum Goldreich-Levin theorem with cryptographic
applications. In: Alt, H., Ferreira, A. (eds.) STACS 2002. LNCS, vol. 2285, pp.
323–334. Springer, Heidelberg (2002). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-45841-7 26
5. Amos, R., Georgiou, M., Kiayias, A., Zhandry, M.: One-shot signatures and
applications to hybrid quantum/classical authentication. In: Makarychev, K.,
Makarychev, Y., Tulsiani, M., Kamath, G., Chuzhoy, J. (eds.) 52nd ACM STOC,
pp. 255–268. ACM Press (2020). https://doi.org/10.1145/3357713.3384304
6. Ananth, P., Brakerski, Z., Segev, G., Vaikuntanathan, V.: From selective to adap-
tive security in functional encryption. In: Gennaro, R., Robshaw, M.J.B. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2015, Part II. LNCS, vol. 9216, pp. 657–677. Springer, Heidelberg (2015).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-48000-7 32
7. Ananth, P., Kaleoglu, F.: Unclonable encryption, revisited. In: Nissim, K., Waters,
B. (eds.) TCC 2021, Part I. LNCS, vol. 13042, pp. 299–329. Springer, Heidelberg
(2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-90459-3 11
8. Ananth, P., Kaleoglu, F., Li, X., Liu, Q., Zhandry, M.: On the feasibility of unclon-
able encryption, and more. In: Dodis, Y., Shrimpton, T. (eds.) CRYPTO 2022, Part
II. LNCS, vol. 13508, pp. 212–241. Springer, Heidelberg (2022). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-031-15979-4 8
9. Ananth, P., La Placa, R.L.: Secure software leasing. In: Canteaut, A., Standaert,
F.X. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2021, Part II. LNCS, vol. 12697, pp. 501–530. Springer,
Heidelberg (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-77886-6 17

Public Key Encryption with Secure Key Leasing
609
10. Bartusek, J., Khurana, D.: Cryptography with certiﬁed deletion. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Report 2022/1178 (2022), https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/1178
11. Bennett, C.H., Brassard, G.: Quantum cryptography: Public key distribution and
coin tossing. arXiv preprint arXiv:2003.06557 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
tcs.2014.05.025
12. Boneh, D., Ding, X., Tsudik, G., Wong, C.M.: A method for fast revocation of
public key certiﬁcates and security capabilities. In: Wallach, D.S. (ed.) USENIX
Security 2001. USENIX Association (2001)
13. Boneh, D., Zhandry, M.: Secure signatures and chosen ciphertext security in a
quantum computing world. In: Canetti, R., Garay, J.A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2013,
Part II. LNCS, vol. 8043, pp. 361–379. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-642-40084-1 21
14. Brakerski, Z., Segev, G.: Function-private functional encryption in the private-key
setting. J. Cryptol. 31(1), 202–225 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/s00145-017-
9255-y
15. Broadbent, A., Islam, R.: Quantum encryption with certiﬁed deletion. In: Pass, R.,
Pietrzak, K. (eds.) TCC 2020, Part III. LNCS, vol. 12552, pp. 92–122. Springer,
Heidelberg (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-64381-2 4
16. Broadbent, A., Jeﬀery, S., Lord, S., Podder, S., Sundaram, A.: Secure software
leasing without assumptions. In: Nissim, K., Waters, B. (eds.) TCC 2021, Part
I. LNCS, vol. 13042, pp. 90–120. Springer, Heidelberg (2021). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-90459-3 4
17. Coladangelo, A., Liu, J., Liu, Q., Zhandry, M.: Hidden cosets and applications
to unclonable cryptography. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) CRYPTO 2021,
Part I. LNCS, vol. 12825, pp. 556–584. Springer, Heidelberg, Virtual Event (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84242-0 20
18. Coladangelo, A., Majenz, C., Poremba, A.: Quantum copy-protection of compute-
and-compare programs in the quantum random oracle model. arXiv:2009.13865
(2020)
19. Culf, E., Vidick, T.: A monogamy-of-entanglement game for subspace coset states.
Quantum 6, 791 (2022). https://doi.org/10.22331/q-2022-09-01-791
20. Georgiou, M., Zhandry, M.: Unclonable decryption keys. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Report 2020/877 (2020). https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/877
21. Gorbunov, S., Vaikuntanathan, V., Wee, H.: Functional encryption with bounded
collusions via multi-party computation. In: Safavi-Naini, R., Canetti, R. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2012. LNCS, vol. 7417, pp. 162–179. Springer, Heidelberg (2012).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-32009-5 11
22. Goyal, R., Kim, S., Manohar, N., Waters, B., Wu, D.J.: Watermarking public-key
cryptographic primitives. In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio, D. (eds.) CRYPTO 2019,
Part III. LNCS, vol. 11694, pp. 367–398. Springer, Heidelberg (2019). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-030-26954-8 12
23. Goyal, R., Koppula, V., Waters, B.: Semi-adaptive security and bundling function-
alities made generic and easy. In: Hirt, M., Smith, A.D. (eds.) TCC 2016-B, Part
II. LNCS, vol. 9986, pp. 361–388. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-662-53644-5 14

610
S. Agrawal et al.
24. Hiroka, T., Morimae, T., Nishimaki, R., Yamakawa, T.: Quantum encryption with
certiﬁed deletion, revisited: Public key, attribute-based, and classical communica-
tion. In: Tibouchi, M., Wang, H. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2021, Part I. LNCS, vol.
13090, pp. 606–636. Springer, Heidelberg (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-92062-3 21
25. Hiroka, T., Morimae, T., Nishimaki, R., Yamakawa, T.: Certiﬁed everlasting func-
tional encryption. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2022/969 (2022). https://
eprint.iacr.org/2022/969
26. Itkis, G., Shen, E., Varia, M., Wilson, D., Yerukhimovich, A.: Bounded-collusion
attribute-based encryption from minimal assumptions. In: Fehr, S. (ed.) PKC 2017,
Part II. LNCS, vol. 10175, pp. 67–87. Springer, Heidelberg (2017). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-662-54388-7 3
27. Kitagawa, F., Nishimaki, R.: Functional encryption with secure key leasing. Asi-
acrypt 2022 (to appear) (2022)
28. Kitagawa, F., Nishimaki, R.: Watermarking PRFs against quantum adversaries.
In: Dunkelman, O., Dziembowski, S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2022, Part III. LNCS,
vol. 13277, pp. 488–518. Springer, Heidelberg (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-031-07082-2 18
29. Kitagawa, F., Nishimaki, R., Yamakawa, T.: Secure software leasing from standard
assumptions. In: Nissim, K., Waters, B. (eds.) TCC 2021, Part I. LNCS, vol. 13042,
pp. 31–61. Springer, Heidelberg (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-90459-
3 2
30. Marriott, C., Watrous, J.: Quantum arthur-merlin games. Comput. Complex.
14(2), 122–152 (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/s00037-005-0194-x
31. Poremba, A.: Quantum proofs of deletion for learning with errors. In: Kalai, Y.T.
(ed.) 14th Innovations in Theoretical Computer Science Conference, ITCS 2023,
January 10–13, 2023, MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. LIPIcs, vol. 251, pp.
90:1–90:14. Schloss Dagstuhl - Leibniz-Zentrum f¨ur Informatik (2023). https://doi.
org/10.4230/LIPIcs.ITCS.2023.90
32. Sahai, A., Seyalioglu, H.: Worry-free encryption: functional encryption with public
keys. In: Al-Shaer, E., Keromytis, A.D., Shmatikov, V. (eds.) ACM CCS 2010. pp.
463–472. ACM Press (2010). https://doi.org/10.1145/1866307.1866359
33. Sattath, O., Wyborski, S.: Uncloneable decryptors from quantum copy-protection.
arxiv:2203.05866 (2022)
34. Unruh, D.: Revocable quantum timed-release encryption. J. ACM 62(6), 49:1–
49:76 (2015)
35. Wiesner, S.: Conjugate coding. ACM Sigact News 15(1), 78–88 (1983). https://
doi.org/10.1145/1008908.1008920
36. Winter, A.J.: Coding theorem and strong converse for quantum channels. IEEE
Trans. Inf. Theory 45(7), 2481–2485 (1999). https://doi.org/10.1109/18.796385
37. Zhandry, M.: Schr¨odinger’s pirate: How to trace a quantum decoder. In: Pass, R.,
Pietrzak, K. (eds.) TCC 2020, Part III. LNCS, vol. 12552, pp. 61–91. Springer,
Heidelberg (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-64381-2 3

