Unclonable Polymers and Their
Cryptographic Applications
Ghada Almashaqbeh1(B), Ran Canetti2, Yaniv Erlich3, Jonathan Gershoni4,
Tal Malkin5, Itsik Pe’er5, Anna Roitburd-Berman4, and Eran Tromer4,5
1 University of Connecticut, Storrs, USA
ghada@uconn.edu
2 Boston University, Boston, USA
canetti@bu.edu
3 Eleven Therapeutics and IDC Herzliya, Herzliya, Israel
yaniv@eleventx.com
4 Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel
{gershoni,roitburd}@tauex.tau.ac.il
5 Columbia University, New York, USA
{tal,itsik,tromer}@cs.columbia.edu
Abstract. We propose a mechanism for generating and manipulat-
ing protein polymers to obtain a new type of consumable storage that
exhibits intriguing cryptographic “self-destruct” properties, assuming
the hardness of certain polymer-sequencing problems.
To demonstrate the cryptographic potential of this technology, we
ﬁrst develop a formalism that captures (in a minimalistic way) the func-
tionality and security properties provided by the technology. Next, using
this technology, we construct and prove security of two cryptographic
applications that are currently obtainable only via trusted hardware
that implements logical circuitry (either classical or quantum). The ﬁrst
application is a password-controlled secure vault where the stored data
is irrecoverably erased once a threshold of unsuccessful access attempts
is reached. The second is (a somewhat relaxed version of) one time pro-
grams, namely a device that allows evaluating a secret function only a
limited number of times before self-destructing, where each evaluation is
made on a fresh user-chosen input.
Finally, while our constructions, modeling, and analysis are designed
to capture the proposed polymer-based technology, they are suﬃciently
general to be of potential independent interest.
1
Introduction
Imagine we could cryptographically create k-time programs, i.e., programs that
can be run only some bounded number of times, and inherently self-destruct after
the k-th invocation. This would open the door to a plethora of groundbreaking
applications: For instance, we would be able to use even low-entropy passwords
for oﬄine data storage, because k-time programs could lock out a brute-force-
search adversary after a few attempts; today this is possible only via interaction
or trusted electronics.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
O. Dunkelman and S. Dziembowski (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2022, LNCS 13275, pp. 759–789, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-06944-4_26

760
G. Almashaqbeh et al.
Alternatively, we could release a sensitive and proprietary program (such as
a well-trained ML model) and be guaranteed that the program can be used only
a limited number of times, thus potentially preventing over-use, mission-creep,
or reverse engineering.
Such programs can also be viewed as a commitment to a potentially expo-
nential number of values, along with a guarantee that only few of these values
are ever opened.
Indeed, k-time programs, ﬁrst proposed by Goldwasser, Kalai, and Rothblum
[35] are extremely powerful. What does it take to make this concept a reality?
Obviously, we cannot hope to do that with pure software or classical information
alone, since these are inherently cloneable. In fact, software-only k-time programs
do not exist even if the program can use quantum gates [13].
In [35] it is shown that “one-out-of-two” memory gadgets, which guaran-
tee that exactly one out of two pieces of data encoded in the gadget will be
retrievable, along with circuit garbling techniques [55], suﬃce for building k-
time programs for any functionality.
However, how do we obtain such memory gadgets? While Goldwasser et al.
suggest a number of general directions, we are not aware of actual implementa-
tions of one-out-of-two memory gadgets other than generically tamper-prooﬁng
an entire computational component.
Can alternative technologies be explored? Also, what can be done if we only
can obtain some weaker forms of such memory gadgets, that provide only limited
retrievability to naive users, along with limited resilience to adversarial attacks?
More generally, where can we look for such technologies, and how can we
co-develop the new technology together with the cryptographic modeling and
algorithmics that will complement the technology to obtain full-ﬂedged k-time
programs, based only on minimal and better-understood assumptions on the
physical gadgets, rather than by dint of complex defensive engineering?
1.1
Contributions
This work describes a cross-disciplinary eﬀort to provide some answers to these
questions, using ideas based on the current technological capabilities and limi-
tations in synthesizing and identifying random proteins. We begin with a brief
overview of the relevant biochemical technology and our ideas for using this
technology for bounded-retrieval information storage. We then describe our algo-
rithmic and analytical work towards constructing k-time programs and related
applications, along with rigorous security analysis based on well-deﬁned assump-
tions on the adversarial capabilities - both biochemical and computational.
Biochemical Background. Advances in biotechnology have allowed the
custom-tailored synthesis of biological polymers for the purpose of data stor-
age. Most eﬀort has focused on DNA molecules, which can be synthesized as
to encode digital information in their sequence of bases. DNA can be readily
cloned and read with excellent ﬁdelity, both by nature and by existing technol-
ogy [12,19,27,38]. Even minute amounts of DNA can be reliably cloned - and

Unclonable Polymers and Their Cryptographic Applications
761
then read - an eﬀectively unbounded number of times, making it an excellent
storage medium—too good, alas, for our goal, since it is unclear how to bound
the number of times a DNA-based storage can be read.
Consider, though, a diﬀerent biological polymer: proteins. These chains of
amino acids can likewise represent digital information, and can be synthesized via
standard (albeit more involved) lab procedures. However, reading (“sequencing”)
the amino acid sequence in a protein appears much more diﬃcult: The best
known lab procedure for sequencing general proteins is mass spectrometry, which
requires a macroscopic pure sample, free of substantial pollution. The sequencing
process then destroys the sample - the protein is chopped into small fragments
which are accelerated in a detector.
Furthermore, we have no way to clone a protein that is given in a small
amount. Indeed, Francis Crick’s central dogma of molecular biology states: “once
‘information’ has passed into protein it cannot get out again. [Information] trans-
fer from protein to protein, or from protein to nucleic acid is impossible” [20].
Over billions of years of evolution, no known biological system has ever violated
this rule, despite the reproductive or immunological beneﬁts this could have
bestowed. Moreover, in the 63 years since that bold hypothesis (or, alterna-
tively, challenge) was put forth, it has also stymied human ingenuity, in spite of
the enormous usefulness to science and medicine that such ability would provide.
This makes proteins terrible as a general-purpose data storage medium: they
cannot be read unless presented in just the right form, and they self-destruct after
few reads. However, cryptography is the art of making computational lemonade
out of hard lemons. Can we leverage the time-tested hardness of sequencing small
amounts of proteins for useful functionality? We see a couple of approaches,
leading to diﬀerent functionality and applications.
Biochemical “Conditionally Retrievable Memory”. As a ﬁrst attempt, we
consider a protein-based “conditionally retrievable memory”, that stores infor-
mation in a way so that retrieving the information requires knowledge of some
key, and furthermore, once someone attempts to retrieve the information “too
many times” with wrong keys, the information becomes irrevocably corrupted.
A ﬁrst attempt at implementing such a system may proceed as follows: The
sender encodes the payload information into a payload protein, and the key
into a header protein, which are connected into a single protein (the concrete
encoding and procedures are discussed in Sect. 2). The process actually creates
a macroscopic amount of such payload-header pairs, and mixes these pairs with
a large quantity of decoys which are similarly structured but encode random
keys and payloads. The resulting sample is then put in a vial, serving the role
of (biological) memory.
Recovering the information from the vial can be done via a pull-down pro-
cedure, i.e., a chemical reaction of the sample with an antibody that attaches
to a speciﬁc portion of the protein. Given the key, one can choose the correct
antibody and use it to isolate the information-bearing proteins from the added
ones. Then, the information can be read via mass spectrometry.
In addition, any meaningful attempt to obtain information from the vial
would necessarily employ some sort of pull-down on some portion of the sam-

762
G. Almashaqbeh et al.
ple in the vial, and then employ mass spectrometry on the puriﬁed portion of
the sample. (Indeed, performing mass spectrometry on the vial without pull-
down will return results that are polluted by the decoys.) Furthermore, since
each application of the spectrometry process needs, and then irrevocably con-
sumes, some ﬁxed sample mass, an adversary is eﬀectively limited to trying some
bounded number n of guesses for the key, where n depends on the initial mass
of the sample in the vial and the grade of the speciﬁc spectrometer used.
Partially Retrievable Memory. The above scheme appears to be easily adapt-
able to the case of storing multiple key-payload pairs in the same vial, along with
the random noise proteins. This variant has the intriguing feature that even a
user that knows all keys can only obtain n payloads from the vial, where n is the
number of pull-down-plus-mass-spectrometry operations that can be applied to
the given sample.
Challenges. While the above ideas seem promising, they still leave a lot to
be desired as far as a cryptographic scheme is concerned: First, we would need
a more precise model that adequately captures the capabilities required from
honest users of the system, as well as bounds on the feasible capabilities of
potential adversaries—taking into account that adversaries might have access to
signiﬁcantly more high-end bio-engineering and computational tools than honest
users. Next, we would need to develop algorithmic techniques that combine bio-
engineering steps and computational steps to provide adequate functionality
and security properties. Finally, we would need to provide security analysis that
rigorously asserts the security properties within the devised model. We describe
these steps next.
Formal Modeling: Consumable Tokens. The full biochemical schemes we
propose involve multiple steps and are thus diﬃcult to reason about formally. We
thus distill the requisite functionality and security properties into relatively sim-
ple idealized deﬁnition of a consumable token in Sect. 3. In a nutshell, an (1, n, v)-
time token is created with 2v values: keys k1, ..., kv and messages m1, ..., mv,
taken from domains K and M, respectively. Honest users can query a token
only once, with key k′. If k′ = ki for some i, then the user obtains mi, else the
user obtains ⊥. Adversaries can query a token n times, each with a new key k′.
Whenever any of keys equals kj, the adversary obtains mj. We assume that the
size of M, K and v are ﬁxed, independent of any security parameter.
Constructing Consumable Tokens. Our biochemical procedures provide a
candidate construction for consumable tokens, but with weak parameters. They
can only store a few messages, of short length, under short keys, with non-
negligible completeness and soundness errors. This is in addition to the power
gap between an honest recipient and an adversarial one; the former can perform
one data retrieval attempt, while the latter might be able to perform up to n
queries, for some small integer n.
Thus, employing our protein-based consumable tokens in any of the appli-
cations discussed above is not straightforward. It requires several (conventional
and new) techniques to mitigate these challenges. Amplifying completeness is

Unclonable Polymers and Their Cryptographic Applications
763
handled by sending several vials, instead of one, all encoding the same message.
Storing long messages is handled by fragmenting a long message into several
shorter ones, each of which is stored under a diﬀerent header in a separate vial.
The rest are more involved and were impacted by the application itself.
Bounded Query, Point Function Obfuscation for Low-entropy Pass-
words. Password-protected secure vaults, or digital lockers, allow encrypting a
message under a low entropy password. This can be envisioned as a point func-
tion with multi-bit output where the password is the point and the message is
the output. With our consumable tokens, one can store the message inside a
vial with the password being mapped to a token key (or header) that is used
to retrieve the message. The guarantee is that an honest recipient, who knows
the password, will be able to retrieve the message using one query. While an
adversary can try up to n guesses after which the token will be consumed.
However, having a non-negligible soundness error complicates the matter.
We cannot use the conventional technique of sharing the message among sev-
eral vials, and thus reducing the error exponentially. This is due to the fact
that we have one password mapped to the keys of these tokens, so revealing
the key of any of these tokens would give away the password. We thus devise
a chaining technique, which eﬀectively forces the adversary to operate on the
tokens sequentially. In Sect. 4, we start with formalizing an ideal functionality
for bounded-query point function obfuscation, and then detail our consumable
token and chaining based construction, along with formal security proofs.
(1, n)-time Programs. Next we use (1, n, v)-consumable tokens to construct
(1, n)-time programs, namely a system that, given a description of a program
π, generates some digital rendering ˆπ of π, and a number of consumable tokens,
that (a) allows a user to obtain π(x) on any value x of the user’s choice, and
(b) even an adversary cannot obtain more information from the combination of
ˆπ and the physical tokens, on top of π(x1), ..., π(xn) for n adversarially chosen
values x1, ..., xn.
In the case of n = 1 (i.e., when even an adversary can obtain only a single
message out of each token), (1, 1)-time programs can be constructed by garbling
the program π and then implementing one-out-of-two oblivious transfer for each
input wire using a (1, 1, 2)-consumable token with K = M = {0, 1}κ [35]. How-
ever, constructing (1, n′)-time programs from (1, n, v)-consumable tokens with
n > 1 turns out to be a signiﬁcantly more challenging problem, even when v
is large and even when n′ is allowed to be signiﬁcantly larger than n (i.e., even
when the bound that the construction is asked to impose on the number of xi’s
for which the adversary obtains π(xi) is signiﬁcantly larger than the number of
messages that the adversary can obtain from each token): A ﬁrst challenge is
that plain circuit garbling provides no security as soon as it is evaluated on more
than a single input (in fact, as soon as the adversary learns both labels of some
wire). Moreover, even if one were to use a “perfect multi-input garbling scheme”
(or, in other words VBB obfuscation [9]), naive use of consumable tokens would
allow an adversary to evaluate the function on an exponential number of inputs.

764
G. Almashaqbeh et al.
Our construction combines the use of general program obfuscation (specif-
ically, Indistinguishability Obfuscation [9,42]) together with special-purpose
encoding techniques that guarantee zero degradation in the number of values
that an adversary may obtain—namely (1, n)-time programs using our consum-
able tokens.
Speciﬁcally, our construction obfuscates the circuit, and uses consumable
tokens to store random secret strings each of which represents an input in the
circuit input domain. Without the correct strings, the obfuscated circuit will
output ⊥. Beside amplifying soundness error (luckily it is based on secret sharing
for this case), our construction employs an innovative technique to address a
limitation imposed by the concrete construction of consumable tokens. That
is, a token can store a limited number of messages (or random strings), thus
allowing to encode only a subset of the circuit inputs rather than the full input
space. We use linear error correcting codes to map inputs to codewords, which
are in turn used to retrieve random strings from several tokens.
We show a number of ﬂavors of this construction, starting with a simple one
that uses idealized (speciﬁcally VBB) obfuscation, followed by a more involved
variant that uses only indistinguishability obfuscation iO. We also discuss how
reusable garbled circuits [34] can be used to limit the use of iO to a smaller and
simpler circuits.
Protection from Malicious Encapsulators. Our constructions provide vary-
ing degrees of protection for an honest evaluator in face of potentially ill-
structured programs. The (1, n)-point function obfuscation application carries
the guarantee that an adversary can only obfuscate (or encapsulate) valid point
functions with the range and domain speciﬁed. This is due to the fact that we use
consumable tokens each of which is storing one secret message m (from a ﬁxed
domain) under a single token key (from a ﬁxed space). The use of a wrong key
(i.e., one that is not derived correctly from the password that an honest evalua-
tor knows) will return ⊥. The general (1, n)-program application only guarantees
that the evaluator is given some ﬁxed program, but without guarantees regard-
ing the nature of the program. Such guarantees need to be provided in other
means. A potential direction is to provide a generic non-interactive zero knowl-
edge proof that the encapsulated program along with the input labels belong to
a given functionality or circuit class.
The Analytical Model. We base our formalism and analysis within the UC
security framework [15]. This appears to be a natural choice in a work that mod-
els and argues about schemes that straddle two quite diﬀerent models of compu-
tation, and in particular attempt at arguing security against attacks that com-
bine bioengineering capabilities as well as computational components. Speciﬁ-
cally, when quantifying security we use separate security parameters: one for the
bioengineering components and one for the computational ones. Furthermore,
while most of the present analysis pertains to the computational components,
we envision using the UC theorem to argue about composite adversaries and
in particular construct composite simulators that have both bioengineering and
computational components.

Unclonable Polymers and Their Cryptographic Applications
765
1.2
Related Work
Katz et al. [44] initiated the study of tamper-proof hardware tokens to achieve
UC security for MPC protocols in the plain model. Several follow up works
explored this direction, e.g., [18,40,41], with a foundational study in [37]. In gen-
eral, two types of tokens are used: stateful [23] and stateless (or resettable) [7,22];
the latter is considered a weaker and more practical assumption than the former.
In another line of work, Goldwasser et al. [35] employed one-time memory devices
to build one-time programs as mentioned before. They assume that such mem-
ory devices exist without showing any concrete instantiation. Our work instead
provides an instantiation for a weaker version of memory devices—(1, n)-time
memory devices—and uses them to build (1, n)-time programs. Other works
relied on tamper-proof smart cards to construct functionalities such as anony-
mous authentication and practical MPC protocols [39,45]. They assume that
such cards withstand reverse-engineering or side-channel attacks. Our work, on
the other hand, proposes an alternative that relies on deeper, more inherent
physical phenomena that have withstood the test of nature and ingenuity. We
show that even a weak level of security and functionality, far below the natural
smart-card trust assumption, suﬃces for useful cryptographic functionalities.
Quantum computing oﬀer an unclonability feature that poses the question of
whether it can oﬀer a solution for bounded program execution. This possibility
was ruled out by Broadbent et al. [13] who proved that one-time programs,
even in the quantum model, cannot be constructed without one-time mem-
ory devices. To circumvent this impossibility, Roehsner et al. [52] introduced
a relaxed notion—probabilistic one-time programs—allowing for some error in
the output, and showed a construction in the quantum model without requiring
hardware tokens. Secure software leasing (SSL) [5] emerged as a weaker alterna-
tive for quantum copy-protection [1]. SSL deals with software piracy for quantum
unlearnable circuits; during the lease period the user can run the program over
any input, but not after the lease expires. Our work bounds the number of exe-
cutions a user obtains regardless of the time period and can be used for learnable
functions.
Another line of research explored basing cryptography on physical assump-
tions. For example, noisy channels [21] and tamper-evident seals [48] were used to
implement oblivious transfer and bit commitments. Others built cryptographic
protocols for physical problems: [32] introduced zero knowledge proof system
for nuclear warhead veriﬁcation and [28] presented a uniﬁed framework for such
proof systems with applications to DNA proﬁling and neutron radiography. This
has been extended in [29] to build secure physical computation in which parties
have private physical inputs and they want to compute a function over these
inputs. Notably, [29] uses disposable circuits; these are hardware tokens that can
be destroyed (by the opposing party) after performing a computation. In com-
parison to all these works, our consumable tokens are weaker as they are used
for storing short messages rather than performing a computation.
Physical unclonable functions (PUFs) [51] are hardware devices used as
sources of randomness, that cannot be cloned. PUFs found several applications,

766
G. Almashaqbeh et al.
such as secure storage [25], key management [43], oblivious transfer [53], and
memory leakage-resilient encryption schemes [6]. The works [14] and [50] pro-
posed models for using trusted and malicious PUFs, respectively, in the UC
setting. Our tokens share the unclonability feature with PUFs, but they add the
bounded query property and the ability to control the output of a data retrieval
query.
Lastly, a few works investigated the use of DNA in building cryptographic
primitives and storage devices. For example, a DNA-based encryption scheme
was proposed in [56], while [26] focused on bio-data storage that deteriorates
with time by utilizing engineered sequences of DNA and RNA, without any
further cryptographic applications. Both works do not provide any formal mod-
eling or security analysis. To the best of our knowledge, we are the ﬁrst to
use unclonable biological polymers—proteins—to build advanced cryptographic
applications with formal treatment. Apart from storage, a more ambitious view
was posed by Adleman [3] back in the 1990s, who investigated the concept of
molecular computers. They showed how biochemical interactions can solve a
combinitorial problem over a small graph encoded in molecules of DNA [2]. This
leaves an open question of whether one can extend that to proteins and build
stronger tokens that can securely execute a full computation.
2
Unclonable Polymer-Based Data Storage
In this section, we present an overview of the protein-based data storage con-
struction that we use to build consumable tokens. We focus on the speciﬁcations
and guarantees this construction provides rather than detailed explanation of the
biology behind them. The detailed explanation, and a more complete version of
this section, can be found in the full version.1
Protein-based Data Storage and Retrieval. Advances in biotechnology
have allowed the custom-tailored synthesis of biological polymers for the purpose
of data storage. Much of the eﬀort in this new ﬁeld has focused on the use of
DNA, generating an arsenal of molecular protocols to store and retrieve informa-
tion [12,19,27,38]. With this growing application, we became interested in the
cryptographic attributes this new hardware oﬀers. Speciﬁcally, we propose the
use of proteins, in particular short amino-acid polymers or peptides, as a data
storage material. Curiously, the most fundamental characteristics of proteins;
they cannot be directly cloned nor can they replicate or be ampliﬁed, and that
“data retrieval” is typically self-destructive, might be considered as limitations
from a regular data storage point of view. However, these exact traits can confer
powerful features to instantiate cryptographic primitives and protocols.
Accordingly, for storage, the digital message is encoded into the primary
conﬁguration of the peptide/protein, i.e., the sequence of the 20 natural amino
1 It should be noted that we are working on a sister paper showing the details of
this biological construction; will delve into the technical details of the biochemical
realization and empirically analyze it under the framework established in this paper.

Unclonable Polymers and Their Cryptographic Applications
767
Fig. 1. General scheme for peptide-based data storage.
acids of the protein material, the “peptide-payload”. To retrieve the message,
the order of the amino-acids of a protein is determined, after which this sequence
is decoded to reconstruct the original message. Given that our primary goal is
to design a biological machinery to securely realize cryptographic primitives, we
extend this basic paradigm to support data secrecy. Our proposal is based on a
number of features of proteins and peptides: (i) unique peptides can be designed
to comprise any string of amino acids and be physically produced with precision
and at high ﬁdelity, (ii) a peptide sample whose amino acid sequence is not
known is unclonable and cannot be replicated or ampliﬁed, (iii) sequencing the
peptide results in its consumption.2
As illustrated in Fig. 1, the peptide message, peptide-m, is conjugated to a
short (<10 amino acids) peptide tag, a tag that is recognized speciﬁcally by a
predetermined monoclonal antibody (mAb). Thus, the peptide tag, designated
“header”, corresponds to its speciﬁc mAb. Next, peptide-m is mixed with a vast
variety of decoy peptide messages, all of which are peptide permutations of
composition and length, each conjugated to a collection of alternative header
sequences. The sender shares the secret header with the recipient, i.e., the peptide
sequence of the header (this is digital data), which reveals to the recipient the
identity of the correct unique mAb to be used to recover peptide-m. Then he
sends a vial of the protein mix (a physical component).
For data retrieval, as shown in Fig. 2, the only possible way to decode the mes-
sage is to ﬁrst single out and purify peptide-m. This can be achieved by employing
the unique mAb that speciﬁcally recognizes the unique header attached to pep-
tide-m. Note that all decoy peptides and the target peptide-m are of the same
general length, mass, and composition, but diﬀering in sequence. Thus, eﬀec-
tive puriﬁcation of the desired protein from the decoys, without the matching
mAb, is impossible through standard biochemical/biophysical methodologies.
This achieves message secrecy in the sense that without the matching mAb, m
cannot be retrieved.
Biochemical properties. Protein-based data storage enjoys several properties
that we exploit in our cryptographic applications. These include the following
2 Although we talk about one message in these protocols, several messages can be
stored in one sample by having several peptide-ms instead of one, each of which is
conjugated with a unique header and mixed with the decoys.

768
G. Almashaqbeh et al.
Fig. 2. Message retrieval.
(this is a high level description, more details on the biochemical features that
supports these properties can be found in the full version):
– Unclonability. Proteins are unclonable biological polymers, meaning that
given an amount of proteins one cannot replicate it to obtain a larger amount.
– Destructive data retrieval. Modern biology is only capable of reading pro-
tein sequences indirectly, destructively, and at lower throughput compared to
DNA. The main practical strategy for reading proteins is mass spectrometry
(MS) or versions thereof [8,33]. This machinery imposes several conditions on
the protein sample to allow retrieving the digital data. First, the sample must
contain a suﬃcient amount of the target protein, and second, the sample must
be pure enough. Once a vial is puriﬁed and read using MS, the structure of
the protein is destructed due to fragmentation.
– Adversarial interactions. The only known way to retrieve any information
about the data stored in a vial is by pulling-down the target protein using
the key (or mAb), and then sequencing this protein using MS. Thus, an
adversary, who does not know the correct mAb, can only guess a candidate
mAb and check if sequencing will output m. Also, when obtaining several
(independent) tokens, the adversary will operate on these tokens separately,
since puriﬁcation and sequencing are still needed to obtain the stored data.
– Bounded query. The previous properties imply that a protein-based data stor-
age allows for a ﬁnite number of data retrieval attempts after which the vial
is consumed, i.e., each data retrieval attempt destroys a portion of the biolog-
ical material. In our model, we account for that fact that an adversary could
be more powerful that an honest recipient, e.g., she owns more advanced MS
that operates at lower thresholds. This implies that the vial will allow the
adversary to perform multiple data retrieval attempts, denoted as n, but an
honest recipient will perform only one.
– Message and key (header) sizes. Proteins can store relatively short messages
using short headers. In the full version, we show how to use fragmentation to
store a long message using several vials instead of one, such that the header
will be the concatenation of all headers used in these vials. Nonetheless, in
our applications, we use consumable tokens to store cryptographic keys rather
than very long messages.
– Completeness and soundness errors. Due to laboratory experimental (human
and machine) errors, the protein-based data storage may have non-negligible

Unclonable Polymers and Their Cryptographic Applications
769
completeness and soundness errors. The former means that despite the use of
the correct mAb, the target message may not be successfully retrieved. While
the latter means that despite the use of an incorrect mAb, an adversary
may manage to recover m. In other words, these incorrect mAb may have
similar features to the correct one (what we call close keys). We amplify the
completeness error on the biology side (by sending several vials all encoding
the same message),3 while we amplify the soundness error as part of the
cryptographic constructions that we build in later sections.
3
The Consumable Token Functionality
We utilize the protein-based data storage to build what we call consumable
tokens. A consumable token is a physical token that stores some secret messages,
requires a secret key to retrieve any of these messages, and (partially) destructs
after each data retrieval attempt. An honest recipient will have one data retrieval
attempt, while an adversary (who could be more powerful than honest parties)
may have multiple attempts. In this section, we deﬁne an ideal functionality for
consumable tokens that we use in our applications. Some preliminary notions
that we use in our work can be found in the full version.
Notation. We use [n] as a shorthand for {1, 2, . . . , n}. For time unit represen-
tation, we use the term “computational time step” to refer to the time needed
to perform an operation in Turing machine-based modeling of computations.
While we use “technologically-realizable time step” to refer to the time needed to
perform an operation in physical procedures, which may involve computational
algorithms as well. We use κ to denote the security parameter which encapsulates
two security parameters: κp for physical procedures and κc for computational
algorithms. Thus, when we say polynomial in κ, this means polynomial in the
max{κp, κc}. Lastly, boldface letters represent vectors and PPT is a shorthand
for probabilistic polynomial time.
3.1
Ideal Functionality Deﬁnition
In formalizing our ideal functionality, we target an adversary class that interacts
with a token only using the feasible procedure of applying token keys. Also, we
adopt a deterministic approach for quantifying the closeness relation between the
keys, and hence, computing the soundness error of any data retrieval attempt. In
particular, each key k in the token key space has a set of close keys. Hitting any
of these keys may allow retrieving the message from the token with a probability
bounded by γ (the upper bound for the soundness error).
Adversary Class A. We require the consumable token (or any cryptographic
application built using this token) to be secure against an adversary that per-
forms data retrieval (or decode) queries using token keys. This adversary, if
3 At the cryptography level this is still viewed as one token that allows the honest
recipient to retrieve the message with all but negligible probability.

770
G. Almashaqbeh et al.
given multiple tokens, operate on these tokens separately. To capture the fact
that class A may have more power than the honest parties, an adversary A ∈A
can perform up to n decode queries instead of only one. This adversary is adap-
tive in the sense that it may choose her input based on the outputs obtained
from previous interactions. Furthermore, this adversary is capable of performing
digital and physical procedures.
Key Aﬃnity Database. In order to capture the relation between the keys
in the token key space K, we use an aﬃnity database D. Such a database is
composed of rows each of which is indexed by a key k ∈K. Each row, in turn,
contains a set of tuples (k′, γ′) where k′ is a close key to k and γ′ is the corre-
sponding soundness error, such that γ′ ≤γ. So for a token storing message m
under key k, a decode query with k′ allows an adversary A to obtain m with
probability γ′. Recall that a token can store multiple messages each of which is
tied to a diﬀerent key. When these keys are selected at random, any key applied
by the adversary will be close to at most one of these keys. Accordingly, in our
model the ideal functionality is parameterized by the aﬃnity database D. It
consults this database for each adversarial query to decide key closeness and
γ′ value (if any). Furthermore, recall that for any token the soundness error is
upper bounded by γ. Thus, for all queries i ∈[n], we require 
i γ′
i ≤γ.
Ideal Functionality. An ideal functionality for consumable tokens, denoted
as FCT , is deﬁned in Fig. 3. As shown, FCT is parameterized by a security
parameter κ, a key aﬃnity database D, and an integer n. As noted earlier,
for simplicity FCT allows an honest party to perform one decode query, while it
allows the adversary to perform up to n queries. It is straightforward to generalize
to arbitrary conﬁgurations given that the power gap between honest parties and
the adversary is preserved.
As shown in the ﬁgure, FCT supports four interfaces. The ﬁrst one, Encode,
allows the sender P1 to create a consumable token with ID tid encoding multiple
secret messages under secret keys, all chosen by P1, and transfer the token to
P2. To capture the fact that in real life an adversary may interrupt the commu-
nication between P1 and P2, FCT asks the adversary whether to proceed. If the
adversary agrees to continue, FCT notiﬁes P2 about the new token, and creates
a state for this token.4 This state includes a counter j to track the number of
decode queries performed so far, which is initialized to 0. It also includes two
ﬂags, hﬂag1 and hﬂag2, tracking whether P1 and P2, respectively, are honest or
corrupted. These ﬂags are set by default to 1 indicating that both parties are
honest.
The second interface, Decode, allows P2 to query the token on a key k′. If the
input key matches the ith token key in k, the corresponding message mi will be
returned to P2, otherwise, ⊥will be returned. After the ﬁrst query, where the
counter j is set to 1, FCT stops answering all future Decode queries, capturing
that an honest recipient gets only one retrieval query.
4 It is the responsibility of P1 to securely share k with P2.

Unclonable Polymers and Their Cryptographic Applications
771
Fig. 3. An ideal functionality for consumable tokens.
The third and fourth interfaces, Corrupt-encode and Corrupt-decode, are used
to notify FCT that the environment wants to corrupt any of the involved parties.
Corrupting P1 allows the adversary to encode a vector of messages m′ under a
key vector k′, both of his choice. The state of this token will indicate that P1 is
corrupted by setting hﬂag1 = 0. On the other hand, and to capture the additional
power an adversary A ∈A has, corrupting P2 allows the adversary to perform
up to n decode queries. Moreover, trying a key k′ ̸= ki for i ∈[v], gives the
adversary γ′ chance to obtain mi if k′ is close enough to key ki.
To depict these capabilities, FCT tracks the number of decode queries per-
formed so far and stops answering when this counter j reaches its maximum
value n. Key closeness and soundness error are measured by invoking an algo-
rithm called aﬃnity that simply searches the database and checks if k′ (the

772
G. Almashaqbeh et al.
Fig. 4. A physical construction of consumable tokens.
adversary’s input) is listed in the close key set of any of token keys in k. It
outputs a ﬂag close, and index i, and a soundness error value γ′. If close = 1,
this means that k′ is close to ki, and hence, FCT outputs mi with probability
γ′.
As shown, we restrict the token to be in the hand of either an honest party or
the adversary but not both at the same time. Therefore, P2 cannot be corrupted
after the honest recipient submits a decode query. Before submitting any honest
decode query, corrupting P2 is allowed, and when the environment asks for that,
the value of hﬂag2 is set to 0.
3.2
A Construction for Consumable Tokens
In this section, we present a construction for consumable tokens, shown in Fig. 4.
It is based on the biological procedures used in storing and retrieving data using
proteins discussed in Sect. 2. We conjecture that it securely realizes FCT .5 In
the full version, we present a mathematical (vector-based) model to abstract the
biological procedures. We also show a consumable token construction (using this
vector model) and formally prove its security.
5 This construction is described at a high level; the biological experiments (the subject
of our followup paper) will determine parameters such as required protein quantities,
MS thresholds, amount of decoy proteins, etc., and falsify our conjecture.

Unclonable Polymers and Their Cryptographic Applications
773
4
Bounded-query Point Function Obfuscation
In this section, we introduce one of the cryptographic applications of consum-
able tokens: obfuscating bounded-query point functions with multibit output.
We begin with motivating this application, after which we deﬁne a notion for
bounded-query point function obfuscation, and a construction showing how con-
sumable tokens can be used to realize this functionality.
Motivation. Program obfuscation is a powerful cryptographic concept that
witnessed a large interest in the past two decades. It hides everything about
a program other than what can be learned solely by running this program. A
program obfuscator is a compiler that takes as input the original program, or
circuit, and produces an unintelligible version that preserves functionality but
hides any additional information. Program obfuscation found numerous appli-
cations, e.g., [30,31,46,49]. Barak et al. [9] initiated the ﬁrst rigorous study of
program obfuscation laying down several security notions. Among them, we have
virtual black box (VBB), which states that all what an adversary can learn from
an obfuscated program can be simulated using an oracle access to the original
program. The same work showed that this notion cannot be realized for general
functionalities, but can be realized for restricted function classes.
Point functions are one of these classes that has been studied thoroughly [11,
16,17,46,54]. A point function outputs 1 at a single target point x, and 0 at all
points x′ ̸= x. It is useful for access control applications where providing the
correct passcode grants the user an access to the system. An extended version
of this function class supports a multibit output, i.e., message m, instead of a
single bit. The obfuscation of this extended class is motivated by the notion of
digital lockers [16]: for a message m encrypted using a low-entropy key, such as
a human-generated password, the only way for an adversary to learn anything
about m from its ciphertext is through an exhaustive search over the key space.
A question that arises here is whether one can strengthen this security guar-
antee to also prevent exhaustive search attacks. In real life access-control appli-
cations, this usually takes the form of tracking the number of login attempts and
lock the user out when a maximum number is exceeded. However, this cannot
be applied to digital lockers; an adversary has a copy of the ciphertext and can
decrypt it for as many times as she wishes. Thus, the question becomes more
about the possibility of augmenting multibit-output point function obfuscation
with a bounded-query (or limited number of decryptions) capability.
We answer this question in the aﬃrmative by instantiating a bounded-query
obfuscator for point functions with multibit output using consumable tokens. We
achieve that by translating the low entropy point or password p into the high
entropy token key space, and setting the multibit output to be the message m
encoded inside the token. The message m is obtained when the correct password
p is queried, and only up to nq queries can be performed (nq ∈N).
4.1
Deﬁnition
We aim to build an obfuscator for multibit-output point functions with points
drawn from a low entropy distribution. For password space P and message space

774
G. Almashaqbeh et al.
Fig. 5. An ideal functionality for bounded-query point function obfuscation.
M, let Ip,m : P →M ∪{⊥} be a point function that outputs m when queried
on p and ⊥otherwise. Let I = {Ip,m|p ∈P, m ∈M} be the family of these
functions. In this section, we deﬁne an ideal functionality for bounded-query
point function obfuscation that allows one honest query and up to nq function
evaluations. This functionality, denoted as FBP O, is captured in Fig. 5.
As shown in the ﬁgure, FBP O supports four interfaces. The ﬁrst is Obfuscate
that allows P1 to ask for obfuscating any point function Ip,m in the class I
deﬁned earlier. If the adversary agrees to continue, FBP O notiﬁes P2 about the
new obfuscation request and creates a state for it. As shown, this state stores
a counter to track the number of evaluate queries performed so far, which is
initialized to 0. It also stores two ﬂags, hﬂag1 and hﬂag2 introduced before,
tracking whether P1 and P2, respectively, are honest or corrupted. These ﬂags
are set by default to 1 indicating that both parties are honest. As noted, FBP O
allows for one obfuscation request, and hence, several instantiations are needed
to create multiple obfuscated functions.
The second interface, Evaluate, allows P2 to request evaluating the obfuscated
point function over an input password p′ of her choice. If this input matches the
stored password p, then P2 obtains m, and ⊥otherwise. FBP O updates the
counter j to be 1, and thus, all future queries will not output anything since an
honest P2 gets only one query.

Unclonable Polymers and Their Cryptographic Applications
775
The third and fourth interfaces, Corrupt-obfuscate and Corrupt-evaluate, are
used to notify FBP O that the environment wants to corrupt any of the involved
parties. Corrupting P1 allows the adversary to obfuscate any point function
Ip,m ∈I of her choice. The state of this obfuscation will indicate that P1 is
corrupted by setting hﬂag1 to 0. On the other hand, corrupting P2 allows the
adversary to perform up to nq evaluate queries over inputs of her choice. The
adversary needs to invoke Corrupt-evaluate for each input evaluation, where after
performing nq queries, FBP O will stop responding. As shown, an obfuscated
function can be in the hand of either an honest party or the adversary, but
not both at the same time. In particular, if an honest party performs her single
evaluate query, Corrupt-evaluate will not do anything.
Beside realizing the above ideal functionality, which captures correctness and
security, we require any bounded-query point function obfuscation scheme real-
izing FBP O to satisfy the eﬃciency property deﬁned below.
Deﬁnition 1 (Eﬃciency of Bounded-query point function Obfusca-
tion). There exists a polynomial q such that for all κ ∈N, all Ip,m ∈Iκ, and
all inputs p′ ∈P, if computing Ip,m(p′) takes t computational time steps, then
the command (Evaluate, p′) takes q(t, κ) technologically-realizable time steps.
4.2
Construction
A direct application of FCT produces a construction that suﬀers from two limi-
tations. First, it obfuscates a class of point functions with multibit output that is
restricted in its domain; must be in the high-entropy token key space K. Second,
FCT has a non-negligible soundness error bounded by γ, which will violate the
security guarantees of FBP O. Recall that the goal is to have a construction that
permits A to only perform a bounded query exhaustive search. In other words,
the success probability of A in retrieving m must be only negligibly larger than
the probability of guessing the correct password when performing nq queries
(e.g.,
nq
|P| + negl(κ) when using a uniform password distribution). We now show
our construction in stages, where to simplify the discussion, we assume a uniform
password distribution in the following paragraphs.6
First Attempt. An initial idea is to use a known soundness ampliﬁcation tech-
nique in which m is shared among u tokens, accompanied with a mechanism to
map a password p ∈P to a set of keys ki ∈K for i ∈[u]. This mapping can
be built as, for example, a set of random oracles π1, . . . , πu each of which maps
any password p ∈P to a random string of size ρ for some ρ ∈N. So we have
πi : P →{0, 1}ρ and we denote the output space of each πi as SP ⊂{0, 1}ρ such
that |SP| = |P|. Each random string is then used to choose a key at random from
K. This is modeled by having the token creator P1 use a public algorithm KeyGen
that takes a random string as input and returns a token key as an output.
6 Later, when proving Theorem 1, we generalize that by replacing
nq
|P| with a variable
representing the probability of guessing the password using nq queries. The value of
this variable can be computed based on the underlying password distribution.

776
G. Almashaqbeh et al.
At a high level, with this construction an adversary A will need to retrieve
all shares from all token instances in order to recover m. Taking the worst case
scenario, meaning ﬁxing the soundness error to be the maximum value γ, this
multi-instance approach reduces the overall soundness error to γu. By setting u
to be large enough, the soundness error becomes negligible. Furthermore, and
given that each token instance allows n attempts to retrieve a share, and that
all shares are needed to recover m, A will have nq = n attempts to obtain m.
However, the above analysis is ﬂawed. The adversary A can perform what
we call a leftover attack and utilize the relation between the keys of the u tokens
(i.e., mappings of the same password) to gain a better advantage in recovering
m. That is, success with any of the tokens not only reveals the message share
stored in that token, but also reveals the keys of the rest of the tokens. In detail,
A operates on the ﬁrst token and performs up to n −1 queries (by guessing
passwords and mapping them to token keys using π1). If any of these queries
succeeds in retrieving m1, then with probability at least 1 −γ, A knows that
the key (and hence the password guess) used in this query is the correct key k1
(respectively, the password p). Knowing p, and the public mapping function set
{π1, . . . , πu} as well as KeyGen, allows A to derive the rest of the tokens keys
and retrieve all shares m2, . . . , mu. On the other hand, if A does not succeed in
retrieving m1 using the ﬁrst n −1 queries, it operates on the second token by
repeating the same strategy. In fact, A here has a better chance to guess the
correct password/key since it will exclude all the passwords that did not succeed
with the ﬁrst token. If A succeeds in retrieving m2, and thus p and k1, k3, . . . , ku
as mentioned previously, then it can go back to the ﬁrst token and use the last
query to retrieve m1. If it didn’t succeed, A applies the same strategy to the rest
of the tokens with the hope of guessing the correct password.
As noted, although the probability of retrieving all shares without correctly
guessing any of the token keys is γu, A now has nq = un queries (instead of n)
to guess the right password. Based on that, the probability of retrieving m can
be computed as:7 Pr[m] = un
|P| +

1 −un
|P|

γu. In other words, A can retrieve m
by either guessing the password correctly in any of the un queries, or by being
lucky and retrieving all shares from all tokens despite using incorrect keys due
to the soundness error. Although, the second term has been reduced and can be
set to negligible by conﬁguring u properly, the ﬁrst term increased the advantage
of A way beyond
n
|P|.
Our Construction. To address the leftover attack, we introduce a construction
that chains the u tokens together so that in order to operate on the jth token,
A would need to retrieve all mi for i < j. Otherwise, A will have to guess the
token key from a large space (larger than |P|). This enables us to amplify the
soundness error without increasing the total number of queries A obtains.
Towards building our construction, we introduce a modiﬁed way to map
passwords to token keys. In particular, a function set f1, . . . , fu is used to gen-
7 For the jth token, the size of the password space, after excluding the passwords that
were already tried, is |P| −(j −1)n. For simplicity, we let |P| −(j −1)n ≈|P|.

Unclonable Polymers and Their Cryptographic Applications
777
erate token keys k1, . . . , ku such that for i ∈[u] we deﬁne f1 : P →K and
fi : P×{0, 1}κ →K when i > 1. We write ki ←fi(p, r′
i), where r′
i = r0⊕· · ·⊕ri−1
such that r0 = ⊥and ri ←{0, 1}κ is a random string stored in the ith token.
Each fi ﬁrst applies the mapping πi described earlier to p and then uses the
output along with the random string r′
i (for i > 1) to generate a token key. A
concrete instantiation of fi could be composed of a random oracle that takes
πi(p)∥r′
i as input and outputs a random string of size ρ, then KeyGen is invoked
for this random string to generate a key ki as before.
Note that each fi, for i > 1, may have an input space that is larger than the
output space, i.e., |P|2κ >> |K|. If this is the case (in particular, if 2κ ≥|K|),
this function can be instantiated to cover the full space of K and be a many-
to-one mapping. That is, a password p ∈P can be mapped to diﬀerent keys
(or to all keys in K) by changing the random string r used when invoking fi.
Furthermore, correctly guessing the key k of any of the tokens (other than the
ﬁrst one) without the random string r, does not help the adversary in guessing
the password p (the adversary still needs to guess r in order to recover the
password).
Protocol 2, described in Fig. 6, outlines a construction that uses the above
function set, along with the consumable token ideal functionality FCT , to build a
bounded-query obfuscator for low-entropy point functions with multibit output.
We informally argue that this construction addresses the leftover attack
described previously (again, for simplicity we assume a uniform password distri-
bution for the moment). To see this, let an adversary A follow the same strategy
as before and assume that A did not obtain r1||m1 while performing (n −1)
queries over the ﬁrst token. A now moves to the second token, performs (n −1)
queries where it will succeed in guessing the key k2 correctly with probability
n−1
|K| . This is diﬀerent from the naive construction in which this probability is
n−1
|P|−(n−1) since the previously tried passwords are excluded. In our construction,
A, when it does not have r1, has the only choice of trying keys from the full key
space K (regardless of the password space distribution). This is due to the fact
that without r′
2 (where r′
2 = r1), A cannot compute the induced key space by P,
thus the only choice is to guess keys from K. This probability will be negligible
for a large enough K.
Furthermore, even if A guesses the correct k2, without the random string r′
2
it will be infeasible to deduce the password p from k2 through f2. A needs to
feed f2 with passwords and random strings, where the latter has a space of size
2κ. Also, under the many-to-one construction of f2, . . . , fu, several (or even all)
passwords could be mapped to k2 due to the random string combination, which
makes the task harder for A to ﬁnd out the correct password. The same argument
applies to the rest of the tokens because without r1, none of the subsequent r′
i
can be computed, and the only eﬀective strategy for A is to guess keys from
the key space K. So for each of these tokens, the success probability is
n−1
|K|
instead of
n−1
|P|−(i−1)(n−1) as in the naive scheme (again, the latter will depend on
the password distribution, but the former will always be uniform). The success
probability for A to retrieve m is then approximated as: Pr[m] ≈
n
|P|+

1−n
|P|

γu.

778
G. Almashaqbeh et al.
Fig. 6. A construction for a bounded-query obfuscation scheme for I.
That is, to retrieve m, A either has to guess the password correctly using the ﬁrst
token, or get lucky with every token and retrieve the share it stores. As shown,
this ampliﬁes the soundness error (and can be set to negligible with suﬃciently
large u) without increasing the number of queries A can do.8
4.3
Security
Theorem 1 shows that Protocol 2 in Fig. 6 securely realizes FBP O for the function
family I, with an arbitrary password distribution. For simplicity, we assume that
the token keys ki, the randomness ri, and the message m are all of an equal size,
which is polynomial in the security parameter κ. The proof can be found in the
full version.
8 Similarly, to make the presentation easier, the probability is simpliﬁed here where
some terms are omitted. See the full proof in the full version.

Unclonable Polymers and Their Cryptographic Applications
779
Theorem 1. For 0 ≤γ ≤1, if each of f1, . . . , fu is as deﬁned above, then
Protocol 2 securely realizes FBP O for the point function family I = {Ip,m|p ∈
P, m ∈M} in the FCT -hybrid model in the presence of any adversary A ∈A,
with nq = n and large enough u.
Remark 1. As mentioned before, κ encapsulates a digital and a biological secu-
rity parameters. Also, A is capable of doing computational algorithms and phys-
ical procedures, so is the simulator. In the above theorem, the simulator is com-
putational, but it relies on FCT whose simulator involves physical procedures.
The use of UC security allows us to obtain an overall security guarantee against
all physical/digital combined attacks, both in concrete and asymptotic terms.
5
(1, n)-time Programs
In this section, we introduce another cryptographic application of consumable
tokens; (1, n)-programs. For such programs, completeness states that an honest
party can run a program at most once, while soundness states that an adversary
can run this program at most n times. Again, this can be generalized to allow for
multiple honest queries given that the power gap between honest parties and the
adversary is preserved. We begin with motivating this application, after which
we present a construction showing how consumable tokens can be used to build
(1, n)-programs for arbitrary functions.
Remark 2. One may argue that this application is a generalization of the
bounded-query point function obfuscation. Thus, the previous section is not
needed as one may construct a (1, n)-program for any point function. However,
(1, n)-program guarantees that only some program was encapsulated, while the
previous section guarantees that a valid point function has been encapsulated.
Also, the construction shown in this section relies on a rather strong assumption,
namely, indistinguishability obfuscation, that was not required in the previous
section. Therefore, we present these applications separately.
Motivation. One-time (and k-time) programs allow hiding a program and lim-
iting the number of executions to only one (or k). They can be used to pro-
tect proprietary software and to support temporary transfer of cryptographic
abilities. Furthermore, k-time programs allow obfuscating learnable functions—
functions that can be learned using a polynomial number of queries. By having k
as a small constant, an adversary might not be able to learn the function, which
makes obfuscating such a function meaningful.
Goldwasser et al. [35] showed a construction for one-time programs that com-
bines garbled circuits with one-time memory devices. Goyal et al. [37] strength-
ened this result by employing stateful hardware tokens to support unconditional
security against malicious recipients and senders. Bellare et al. [10] presented a
compiler to compile any program into an adaptively secure one-time version. All
these schemes assumed the existence of tamper-proof hardware tokens without
any concrete instantiation. Dziembowski et al. [24] replaced one-time memory

780
G. Almashaqbeh et al.
devices with one-time PRFs. Although they mentioned that no hardware tokens
are needed, they impose physical restrictions such as inability to leak all bits of
the PRF key, and limiting the number of read/write operations; it is unclear if
these assumptions can be realized in practice. Goyal et al. [36] avoided the usage
of hardware tokens by relying on a blockchain and witness encryption. In par-
ticular, the garbled circuit is posted on the blockchain and the input labels are
encrypted using witness encryption, which can be decrypted later after mining
several blocks given that the input is unique to guarantee at most one execution.
Yet, requiring to store a garbled circuit on a blockchain is impractical.
We investigate the applicability of consumable tokens in constructing
bounded execution programs. This is a natural direction given the bounded
query capability of these tokens, and the fact that we build these tokens rather
than assuming their existence. Nonetheless, the gap between an honest party
and the adversary forces us to consider a slightly diﬀerent notion; the (1, n)-
program mentioned above. Thus, any application that requires the adversary to
execute only on one input, like digital currencies, cannot be implemented using
(1, n)-programs. However, applications that allow n adversarial queries, such as
obfuscating learnable functions, can employ our scheme.
5.1
Deﬁnition
In this section, we deﬁne an ideal functionality for bounded-query encapsulation.
This functionality, denoted as FBE, is captured in Fig. 7. The description of the
interfaces, and the goal of using the ﬂags and the counter, are very similar to
what was described in the previous section for FBP O. The only diﬀerence is that
instead of hiding a point function, FBE hides an arbitrary circuit. The honest
recipient can evaluate this circuit over one input, while an adversary can evaluate
over up to nq inputs. Thus, we do not repeat that here.
Beside realizing the above ideal functionality, we require any bounded-query
obfuscation scheme realizing FBE to satisfy the eﬃciency property deﬁned below.
Deﬁnition 2 (Eﬃciency of Bounded-query Encapsulation). There exists
a polynomial p such that for all κ ∈N, all C ∈Cκ, and all inputs x ∈
{0, 1}∗, if computing C(x) takes t computational time steps, then the command
(Evaluate, ·, x) takes p(t, κ) technologically-realizable time steps.
5.2
Construction and Security
To ease exposition, we describe our construction in an incremental way. We start
with a simpliﬁed construction that handles only programs with small input space,
and assumes idealized obfuscation (speciﬁcally, Virtual Black Box obfuscation
[9]). Next we extend to handle programs with exponential-size domains (namely,
poly-size inputs). We then replace VBB with indistinguishability obfuscation iO.
Finally, we brieﬂy discuss how reusable garbling can reduce the use of iO.

Unclonable Polymers and Their Cryptographic Applications
781
Fig. 7. An ideal functionality for bounded-query encapsulation.
First Attempt—Using VBB. In this initial attempt, our goal is to lay down
the basic idea behind our construction (rather than optimizing for eﬃciency).
We use two tables Tab1 and Tab2. Tab1 maps a program’s input space X to
the token message space M. This table is secret and will be part of the hidden
program. While Tab2 maps X to the token key space K, and it is public.
We use Prog to denote the program that encapsulates the intended circuit or
simply function f, which we want to transform into a (1, n)-program. As shown
in Fig. 8, Prog is parametererized by a table Tab : X →M, a secret key sk, and
f. It has two paths: a trapdoor path and a regular one. The trapdoor path is
activated when a hidden trigger in the input m is detected. In particular, this
input may contain a ciphertext of the program output. On the other hand, if
this ciphertext encrypts the special string φℓout, where φ is some unique value
outside the range of f and ℓout is the length of f’s output, the regular path is
activated. It evaluates f over x ∈X that corresponds to the ﬁrst part of m.
Protocol 3 deﬁned in Fig. 9 shows a construction for (1, n)-time program
for Prog using FCT . For simplicity, we assume |X| = |M| = |K|, the keys in
K are distinct (i.e., do not have any aﬃnity relation), and that FCT has a
negligible soundness error (we discuss later how to achieve that). Bounded query
is achieved via the consumable token; to evaluate over input x, the obfuscated

782
G. Almashaqbeh et al.
Fig. 8. The program ProgTab,sk,f
program bP requires a corresponding message m that is stored inside a token.
Since the table Tab2 is secret hidden inside bP, the only way for P2 to obtain a
valid m is through the consumable token. Once the token is consumed, no more
evaluations can be performed. An adversary, on the other hand, and using FCT ,
will be able to obtain up to n messages corresponding to n program inputs.
Thus, this adversary can run bP at most n times. See the full version for an
(informal) security argument of this construction.
Our Construction—Extending Program Domain and Replacing VBB
with iO. The concrete construction of a consumable token may impose limita-
tions on the number of keys and messages that can be stored in a single token.
Thus, a token may not be able to cover the full domain X of the program Prog.
So if a single token can store a set of message M ⊂M messages, we have
|M| < |X|. To address this issue, we modify the previous construction to use
multiple tokens along with an error correcting code C. We map each x ∈X to a
codeword of length ω, and we use ω tokens to represent the program input. Each
symbol in a codeword indicates which key to use with each token. By conﬁgur-
ing C properly, this technique allows us to cover the program domain without
impacting the number of program executions that (an honest or a malicious) P2
can perform.
Concretely, we use a linear error correcting code C with minimum distance
δ, meaning that the Hamming distance between any two legal codewords is at
least δ. We represent each key in the set K ⊆K used in creating a token, where
|K| = |M|, as a tuple of index and value. So the set K is ordered lexicographically
such that the ﬁrst key in this ordered set is given index 0, and so on. Hence,
a symbol in a codeword is the index of the token key to be used with the
corresponding token. Based on this terminology, we work in a ﬁeld of size q = |K|
with a code alphabet Σ = {0, . . . , q −1}.
Deﬁnition 3. (Linear Codes [4]). Let Fq be a ﬁnite ﬁeld. A [ω, d, δ]q linear
code is a linear subspace C with dimension d of Fω
q , such that the minimum
distance between any two distinct codewords c, c′ ∈C is at least δ. A generating
matrix G of C is a ω × d-matrix whose rows generates the subspace C.

Unclonable Polymers and Their Cryptographic Applications
783
Fig. 9. A construction for a (1, n)-time program scheme for ProgTab,sk,f.
For any d ≤ω ≤q, there exist a [ω, d, (ω −d + 1)]q linear code: the Reed-
Solomon code [47], which we use in our construction. Let S denote the set of
strings to be encoded, such that each input x ∈X is mapped to a unique
s ∈S. Using classic Reed-Solomon, to encode an input x, we ﬁrst deﬁne its
corresponding s, and then we multiply s by the generating matrix G to generate
a codeword of size ω. Using this approach, we can cover a domain size |S| = qd+1.
Accordingly, P1 now has to generate ω tokens, denoted as ct0, . . . , ctω−1,
instead of one. Each of these tokens will include all keys in K. Each key k ∈K
will be tied to a unique message m such that m will be retrieved when a decode
query using k is performed over the token. Let the messages stored in the ﬁrst
token be m0,0, . . . , m0,q−1, and in the second token be m1,0, . . . , m1,q−1, and
so on. We generate these messages using a pseudorandom generator with some
random seed r. In particular, we have mi,j = PRG(r)[i, j] for all i ∈{0, . . . , ω −
1} and j ∈{0, . . . , q −1}; we picture the output of the PRG as an ω × q matrix
of substrings. Hence, m0,0 is the substring stored at row 0 and column 0 in this
matrix, which is the ﬁrst substring of the PRG output, and so on.9 Thus, to
create token ct0, P1 will pass K and m0,0, . . . , m0,q−1 to FCT , while for ct1 the
messages m1,0, . . . , m1,q−1 along with K will be passed, etc.
9 As we will see shortly, mi,j = PRG(r)[i, j] ∥φn(|x|+ℓout) assuming all x ∈X are of
the same length, but we omit that for now to ease exposure.

784
G. Almashaqbeh et al.
Fig. 10. The program ProgG,n,sk,r,f with linear error correcting codes.
So to execute Prog over input x, P2 ﬁrst maps x to s, and then generates
the codeword c for s. After that, she uses the keys with the indices included in
c to query the corresponding tokens. For example, if c = {5, 9, 15, . . . }, then k5
is used to query the ﬁrst token to retrieve m0 = m0,5, k9 is used to query the
second token and retrieve m1 = m1,9, etc. These messages m = m0 ∥· · · ∥mω−1
will be used as input to Prog to obtain the output f(x). This in turn means
that Prog must check that m corresponds to a valid codeword in C. We also
modify the trapdoor path to allow including multiple outputs instead of one.
This is needed to allow the simulator to simulate for an adversary who queries
the tokens out of order. It may happen that the last query is common for two (or
more) codewords (in other words, just when this query takes place, the simulator
will tell that the adversary got valid codewords). Having multiple outputs (each
concatenated with the x value that leads to this output) permits the simulator to
embed the valid outputs for the inputs corresponding to these valid codewords.
The modiﬁed version of Prog can be found in Fig. 10 (with both the lin-
ear code and iO instead of VBB). We also modify the description of Prog (see
Fig. 11). The parameters of the underlying error correcting code are conﬁgured
in a way that produces a code C such that |C| = |X|. As shown, the output
of Encap now contains ω tokens beside the obfuscation of Prog. Eval follows the
description above.
On Preserving the Number of Program Executions (1, n). An honest
party can query any token once. Thus, overall, she will be able to retrieve only
one codeword. An adversary, on the other hand, can query each token up to n
times. We want to guarantee that the nω messages she obtains does not allow
constructing more than n valid codewords. In other words, we want to ensure
that to retrieve n + 1 codewords, at least nω + 1 distinct queries are needed.

Unclonable Polymers and Their Cryptographic Applications
785
Fig. 11. A construction for a (1, n)-time program scheme for ProgG,n,sk,r,f.
To formalize this notion, we deﬁne what we call a cover; a cover of two,
or more, codewords is the set of all distinct queries needed to retrieve these
codewords. For example, codewords c1 = {5, 4, 13, 17} and c2 = {5, 9, 12, 18}
have a cover of {5, 4, 9, 12, 13, 17, 18},10 and so P2 needs 7 queries to obtain the
messages that correspond to these codewords from the tokens.
Deﬁnition 4. A code [ω, d, δ]q is n-robust if for any n + 1 distinct codewords
the size of the cover is at least nω + 1.
So the robustness factor is the number of codewords an adversary can obtain.
To preserve this number to be the original n that an adversary can obtain with
one token, we need to conﬁgure the parameters of C to satisfy the lower bound
of the cover size deﬁned above. We show that for Reed-Solomon codes as follows
(the proof can be found in the full version).
10 Note that if 5 was not on the same position for both codewords then it would have
been considered distinct. Diﬀerent positions means that k5 will be used with diﬀerent
tokens, which leads to diﬀerent messages mi,j.

786
G. Almashaqbeh et al.
Lemma 1. For a Reed-Solomon code [ω, d, δ]q to be n-robust (cf. Deﬁnition 4),
we must have ω −n(d −1) −1 ≥0.
Accordingly, we have the following theorem (the proof can be found in the
full version.)
Theorem 2. Assuming sup-exponentially secure iO and one-way functions, the
iO-based construction described in Fig. 11 is a (1, n)-time program in the FCT -
hybrid model.
Remark 3. It is an intriguing question whether we can obtain (1, n)-time pro-
grams without iO. Since an adversary can evaluate over multiple inputs, we
cannot use garbled circuits—evaluating a circuit over more than one input com-
promises security. A potential direction is to employ reusable garbling [34], and
use our construction to build a (1, n)-time program for the circuit that encodes
the inputs (which requires a secret key from the grabler). Thus, iO is only needed
for the encoding circuit, and our consumable token limits the number of times
this circuit can be evaluated, rather than obfuscating the full program as above.
Acknowledgements. This material is based upon work supported by DARPA under
contracts #HR001120C00, #HR00112020023, and #D17AP00027. Any opinions, ﬁnd-
ings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the
author(s) and do not necessarily reﬂect the views of the United States Government
or DARPA. This research was supported in part by a grant from the Columbia-IBM
center for Blockchain and Data Transparency, by JPMorgan Chase & Co., and by Lex-
isNexis Risk Solutions. Any views or opinions expressed herein are solely those of the
authors listed.
References
1. Aaronson, S.: Quantum copy-protection and quantum money. In: 2009 24th Annual
IEEE Conference on Computational Complexity, pp. 229–242. IEEE (2009)
2. Adleman, L.M.: Molecular computation of solutions to combinatorial problems.
Science 266(5187), 1021–1024 (1994)
3. Adleman, L.M.: Computing with DNA. Sci. Am. 279(2), 54–61 (1998)
4. Almashaqbeh, G., et al.: Gage mpc: bypassing residual function leakage for non-
interactive mpc. PETS 2021(4), 528–548 (2021)
5. Ananth, P., La Placa, R.L.: Secure software leasing. In: Canteaut, A., Standaert,
F.-X. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2021. LNCS, vol. 12697, pp. 501–530. Springer, Cham
(2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-77886-6 17
6. Armknecht, F., Maes, R., Sadeghi, AR., Sunar, B., Tuyls, P.: Memory leakage-
resilient encryption based on physically unclonable functions. In: Sadeghi, AR.,
Naccache, D. (eds.) Towards Hardware-Intrinsic Security. Information Security and
Cryptography, pp. 135–164. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-642-14452-3 6
7. Badrinarayanan, S., Jain, A., Ostrovsky, R., Visconti, I.: UC-secure multiparty
computation from one-way functions using stateless tokens. In: Galbraith, S.D.,
Moriai, S. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2019. LNCS, vol. 11922, pp. 577–605. Springer,
Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-34621-8 21

Unclonable Polymers and Their Cryptographic Applications
787
8. Baldwin, M.A.: Protein identiﬁcation by mass spectrometry issues to be considered.
Mol. Cell. Proteom. 3(1), 1–9 (2004)
9. Barak, B., et al.: On the (Im)possibility of obfuscating programs. In: Kilian, J. (ed.)
CRYPTO 2001. LNCS, vol. 2139, pp. 1–18. Springer, Heidelberg (2001). https://
doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44647-8 1
10. Bellare, M., Hoang, V.T., Rogaway, P.: Adaptively secure garbling with applica-
tions to one-time programs and secure outsourcing. In: Wang, X., Sako, K. (eds.)
ASIACRYPT 2012. LNCS, vol. 7658, pp. 134–153. Springer, Heidelberg (2012).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-34961-4 10
11. Bitansky, N., Canetti, R.: On strong simulation and composable point obfusca-
tion. In: Rabin, T. (ed.) CRYPTO 2010. LNCS, vol. 6223, pp. 520–537. Springer,
Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-14623-7 28
12. Blawat, M., et al.: Forward error correction for DNA data storage. Procedia Com-
put. Sci. 80, 1011–1022 (2016)
13. Broadbent, A., Gutoski, G., Stebila, D.: Quantum one-time programs. In: Canetti,
R., Garay, J.A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2013. LNCS, vol. 8043, pp. 344–360. Springer,
Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-40084-1 20
14. Brzuska, C., Fischlin, M., Schr¨oder, H., Katzenbeisser, S.: Physically uncloneable
functions in the universal composition framework. In: Rogaway, P. (ed.) CRYPTO
2011. LNCS, vol. 6841, pp. 51–70. Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-642-22792-9 4
15. Canetti, R.: Universally composable security. J. ACM 67(5), 28:1–28:94 (2020)
16. Canetti, R., Dakdouk, R.R.: Obfuscating point functions with multibit output.
In: Smart, N. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2008. LNCS, vol. 4965, pp. 489–508. Springer,
Heidelberg (2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-78967-3 28
17. Canetti, R., Tauman Kalai, Y., Varia, M., Wichs, D.: On symmetric encryption
and point obfuscation. In: Micciancio, D. (ed.) TCC 2010. LNCS, vol. 5978, pp.
52–71. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-11799-2 4
18. Chandran, N., Goyal, V., Sahai, A.: New constructions for UC secure computation
using tamper-proof hardware. In: Smart, N. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2008. LNCS,
vol. 4965, pp. 545–562. Springer, Heidelberg (2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-540-78967-3 31
19. Church, G.M., Gao, Y., Kosuri, S.: Next-generation digital information storage in
DNA. Science, p. 1226355 (2012)
20. Crick, F.H.: On protein synthesis. In: Symposia of the Society for Experimental
Biology, vol. 12, p. 8 (1958)
21. Damg˚ard, I., Kilian, J., Salvail, L.: On the (im)possibility of basing oblivious trans-
fer and bit commitment on weakened security assumptions. In: Stern, J. (ed.)
EUROCRYPT 1999. LNCS, vol. 1592, pp. 56–73. Springer, Heidelberg (1999).
https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48910-X 5
22. Damg˚ard, I., Scafuro, A.: Unconditionally secure and universally composable com-
mitments from physical assumptions. In: Sako, K., Sarkar, P. (eds.) ASIACRYPT
2013. LNCS, vol. 8270, pp. 100–119. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-642-42045-0 6
23. D¨ottling, N., Kraschewski, D., M¨uller-Quade, J.: Unconditional and composable
security using a single stateful tamper-proof hardware token. In: Ishai, Y. (ed.)
TCC 2011. LNCS, vol. 6597, pp. 164–181. Springer, Heidelberg (2011). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-19571-6 11
24. Dziembowski, S., Kazana, T., Wichs, D.: One-time computable self-erasing func-
tions. In: Ishai, Y. (ed.) TCC 2011. LNCS, vol. 6597, pp. 125–143. Springer, Hei-
delberg (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-19571-6 9

788
G. Almashaqbeh et al.
25. Eichhorn, I., Koeberl, P., van der Leest, V.: Logically reconﬁgurable PUFs:
memory-based secure key storage. In: Proceedings of the Sixth ACM Workshop
on Scalable Trusted Computing, pp. 59–64 (2011)
26. El Orche, F.E., et al.: Taphonomical security:(dna) information with foreseeable
lifespan. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2021)
27. Erlich, Y., Zielinski, D.: DNA fountain enables a robust and eﬃcient storage archi-
tecture. Science 355(6328), 950–954 (2017)
28. Fisch, B., Freund, D., Naor, M.: Physical zero-knowledge proofs of physical prop-
erties. In: Garay, J.A., Gennaro, R. (eds.) CRYPTO 2014. LNCS, vol. 8617, pp.
313–336. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-44381-
1 18
29. Fisch, B.A., Freund, D., Naor, M.: Secure physical computation using disposable
circuits. In: Dodis, Y., Nielsen, J.B. (eds.) TCC 2015. LNCS, vol. 9014, pp. 182–
198. Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-46494-6 9
30. Garg, S., Gentry, C., Halevi, S., Raykova, M.: Two-round secure MPC from indis-
tinguishability obfuscation. In: Lindell, Y. (ed.) TCC 2014. LNCS, vol. 8349, pp.
74–94. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-54242-8 4
31. Garg, S., Gentry, C., Halevi, S., Raykova, M., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Candi-
date indistinguishability obfuscation and functional encryption for all circuits. In:
FOCS, pp. 40–49. IEEE (2013)
32. Glaser, A., Barak, B., Goldston, R.J.: A zero-knowledge protocol for nuclear war-
head veriﬁcation. Nature 510(7506), 497–502 (2014)
33. Glish, G.L., Vachet, R.W.: The basics of mass spectrometry in the twenty-ﬁrst
century. Nat. Rev. Drug Discov. 2(2), 140–150 (2003)
34. Goldwasser, S., Kalai, Y., Popa, R.A., Vaikuntanathan, V., Zeldovich, N.: Reusable
garbled circuits and succinct functional encryption. In: ACM STOC (2013)
35. Goldwasser, S., Kalai, Y.T., Rothblum, G.N.: One-time programs. In: Wagner, D.
(ed.) CRYPTO 2008. LNCS, vol. 5157, pp. 39–56. Springer, Heidelberg (2008).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-85174-5 3
36. Goyal, R., Goyal, V.: Overcoming cryptographic impossibility results using
blockchains. In: Kalai, Y., Reyzin, L. (eds.) TCC 2017. LNCS, vol. 10677, pp.
529–561. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-70500-2 18
37. Goyal, V., Ishai, Y., Sahai, A., Venkatesan, R., Wadia, A.: Founding cryptography
on tamper-proof hardware tokens. In: Micciancio, D. (ed.) TCC 2010. LNCS, vol.
5978, pp. 308–326. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
642-11799-2 19
38. Grass, R.N., Heckel, R., Puddu, M., Paunescu, D., Stark, W.J.: Robust chemical
preservation of digital information on DNA in silica with error-correcting codes.
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 54(8), 2552–2555 (2015)
39. Hazay, C., Lindell, Y.: Constructions of truly practical secure protocols using stan-
dardsmartcards. In: ACM CCS, pp. 491–500 (2008)
40. Hazay, C., Polychroniadou, A., Venkitasubramaniam, M.: Composable security in
the tamper-proof hardware model under minimal complexity. In: Hirt, M., Smith,
A. (eds.) TCC 2016. LNCS, vol. 9985, pp. 367–399. Springer, Heidelberg (2016).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53641-4 15
41. Hazay, C., Polychroniadou, A., Venkitasubramaniam, M.: Constant round adap-
tively secure protocols in the tamper-proof hardware model. In: Fehr, S. (ed.) PKC
2017. LNCS, vol. 10175, pp. 428–460. Springer, Heidelberg (2017). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-662-54388-7 15
42. Jain, A., Lin, H., Sahai, A.: Indistinguishability obfuscation from well-founded
assumptions. In: ACM STOC, pp. 60–73. ACM (2021)

Unclonable Polymers and Their Cryptographic Applications
789
43. Jin, C., Xu, X., Burleson, W.P., R¨uhrmair, U., van Dijk, M.: Playpuf: pro-
grammable logically erasable PUFs for forward and backward secure key man-
agement. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch. 2015, 1052 (2015)
44. Katz, J.: Universally composable multi-party computation using tamper-proof
hardware. In: Naor, M. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2007. LNCS, vol. 4515, pp. 115–128.
Springer, Heidelberg (2007). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-72540-4 7
45. Lindell, Y.: Anonymous authentication. J. Priv. Conﬁd. 2(2) (2011)
46. Lynn, B., Prabhakaran, M., Sahai, A.: Positive results and techniques for obfusca-
tion. In: Cachin, C., Camenisch, J.L. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2004. LNCS, vol. 3027,
pp. 20–39. Springer, Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-24676-
3 2
47. MacWilliams, F.J., Sloane, N.J.A.: The theory of error correcting codes, vol. 16.
Elsevier (1977)
48. Moran, T., Naor, M.: Basing cryptographic protocols on tamper-evident seals. TCC
411(10), 1283–1310 (2010)
49. Naccache, D., Shamir, A., Stern, J.P.: How to copyright a function? In: Imai, H.,
Zheng, Y. (eds.) PKC 1999. LNCS, vol. 1560, pp. 188–196. Springer, Heidelberg
(1999). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-49162-7 14
50. Ostrovsky, R., Scafuro, A., Visconti, I., Wadia, A.: Universally composable secure
computation with (malicious) physically uncloneable functions. In: Johansson, T.,
Nguyen, P.Q. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2013. LNCS, vol. 7881, pp. 702–718. Springer,
Heidelberg (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-38348-9 41
51. Pappu, R., Recht, B., Taylor, J., Gershenfeld, N.: Physical one-way functions.
Science 297(5589), 2026–2030 (2002)
52. Roehsner, M.C., Kettlewell, J.A., Batalh˜ao, T.B., Fitzsimons, J.F., Walther, P.:
Quantum advantage for probabilistic one-time programs. Nat. Commun. 9(1), 1–8
(2018)
53. R¨uhrmair, U.: Oblivious transfer based on physical unclonable functions. In: Inter-
national Conference on Trust and Trustworthy Computing, pp. 430–440 (2010)
54. Wee, H.: On obfuscating point functions. In: ACM STOC, pp. 523–532 (2005)
55. Yao, A.C.C.: How to generate and exchange secrets. In: FOCS, pp. 162–167 (1986)
56. Zhang, Y., Fu, L.H.B.: Research on DNA cryptography. In: Applied Cryptography
and Network Security, vol. 357, pp. 10–5772. InTech, Rijeka, Croatia (2012)

