Unique-Path Identity Based Encryption
with Applications to Strongly Secure
Messaging
Paul Rösler1(B)
, Daniel Slamanig2
, and Christoph Striecks2
1 FAU Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany
paul.roesler@fau.de
2 AIT Austrian Institute of Technology, Vienna, Austria
{daniel.slamanig,christoph.striecks}@ait.ac.at
Abstract. Hierarchical Identity Based Encryption (HIBE) is a well
studied, versatile tool used in many cryptographic protocols. Yet, since
the performance of all known HIBE constructions is broadly consid-
ered prohibitive, some real-world applications avoid relying on HIBE
at the expense of security. A prominent example for this is secure mes-
saging: Strongly secure messaging protocols are provably equivalent to
Key-Updatable Key Encapsulation Mechanisms (KU-KEMs; Balli et al.,
Asiacrypt 2020); so far, all KU-KEM constructions rely on adaptive
unbounded-depth HIBE (Poettering and Rösler, Jaeger and Stepanovs,
both CRYPTO 2018). By weakening security requirements for better
eﬃciency, many messaging protocols dispense with using HIBE.
In this work, we aim to gain better eﬃciency without sacriﬁcing
security. For this, we observe that applications like messaging only need
a restricted variant of HIBE for strong security. This variant, that we
call Unique-Path Identity Based Encryption (UPIBE), restricts HIBE
by requiring that each secret key can delegate at most one subordinate
secret key. However, in contrast to ﬁxed secret key delegation in Forward-
Secure Public Key Encryption, the delegation in UPIBE, as in HIBE, is
uniquely determined by variable identity strings from an exponentially
large space. We investigate this mild but surprisingly eﬀective restriction
and show that it oﬀers substantial complexity and performance advan-
tages.
More concretely, we generically build bounded-depth UPIBE from
only bounded-collusion IBE in the standard model; and we generically
build adaptive unbounded-depth UPIBE from only selective bounded-
depth HIBE in the random oracle model. These results signiﬁcantly
extend the range of underlying assumptions and eﬃcient instantiations.
We conclude with a rigorous performance evaluation of our UPIBE
design. Beyond solving challenging open problems by reducing complex-
ity and improving eﬃciency of KU-KEM and strongly secure messag-
ing protocols, we oﬀer a new deﬁnitional perspective on the bounded-
collusion setting.
The full version [38] of this article is available in the IACR eprint archive as article
2023/248, at https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/248.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2023
C. Hazay and M. Stam (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2023, LNCS 14008, pp. 3–34, 2023.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-30589-4_1

4
P. Rösler et al.
1
Introduction
Traditionally, Hierarchical Identity Based Encryption (HIBE) [21,29] is moti-
vated by a real-world scenario in which a sender wants to securely encrypt
a message to a receiver without knowing their individual public key. Using a
global main public key as well as a string that identiﬁes the receiver (e.g., their
email address bob@pc.2023.ec.iacr.org), the sender can encrypt the message
via (H)IBE. To decrypt a ciphertext, the receiver can obtain their individual
secret key by requesting delegation from the global main secret key. The hier-
archy in HIBE provides a ﬁne grained, leveled delegation: the secret key of
bob@pc.2023.ec.iacr.org is delegated from secret key of pc.2023.ec.iacr.
org which proceeds up to delegation from secret key of org. Thereby, each secret
key can only delegate secret keys of subordinate identities. For the speciﬁc case
of Identity Based Encryption (IBE) [7,41], only the global main secret key can
delegate identity-speciﬁc secret keys, which reduces the level depth to 1.
HIBE as a Powerful Building Block. Independent of this real-world use
case, HIBE turns out to be a versatile, powerful tool in the design of larger
cryptographic protocols. For example, HIBE is used as the main component in
designs of Broadcast Encryption (BE) [13], Forward-Secure Public Key Encryp-
tion (FS-PKE) [8], Puncturable FS-PKE [25], 0-RTT Key Exchange with For-
ward Secrecy [12,27], and Key-Updatable Key Encapsulation Mechanisms (KU-
KEM) for Ratcheted Key Exchange (RKE) [37]. In most of these cases, the
reason for relying on HIBE is rather the strength of HIBE secret key delegation
than the traditional motivation of encrypting messages to an identity whose
individual public key is unknown.
Notably, not all of these constructions utilize the full power of standard
HIBE. For instance, FS-PKE can be based on relaxed Binary-Tree Encryption
(BTE) [8,33]. Furthermore, KU-KEM constructions [3,30,32,37] only delegate
secret keys along a single path of identities.
Introducing Unique-Path IBE. Motivated by such restricted delegations, we
introduce the notion of Unique-Path Identity Based Encryption (UPIBE). As in
HIBE, UPIBE allows a sender to encrypt messages to a receiver whose individual
public key is unknown by using only a string that speciﬁes the receiver’s identity
as well as a global main public key. On the receiver side, UPIBE assumes that
a secret key in one level delegates at most one secret key of the subjacent level.
In contrast to FS-PKE, unique-path delegation in UPIBE still respects identity
(sub-)strings from an exponential size string space on each level. Consequently, a
receiver with email address bob@pc.2023.ec.iacr.org cannot decrypt cipher-
texts encrypted to identity charlie@pc.2023.ec.iacr.org. Beyond the cryp-
tographic utility, there are real-world examples for such a unique-path delegation
behavior in linear vertical or horizontal hierarchies.1
One perspective on UPIBE could be that it lifts the bounded-collusion setting
from IBE [15] to HIBE by restricting adversaries in corrupting at most one
1 E.g., the chronological succession of presidents in a particular state or a ranking list
that results from a competition.

Unique-Path Identity Based Encryption with Applications
5
delegated secret key in the identity hierarchy. Instead, we view the characteristic
of UPIBE complementary or even orthogonal to the bounded-collusion setting:
While bounded collusion means that the overall number of corrupted secret keys
is limited, UPIBE limits the number of delegations—and, hence, corruptions—
structurally per delegated secret key. In the speciﬁc case of UPIBE, we permit one
delegation per secret key, but this can be extended to two or more delegations
per secret key. Indeed, one of our results motivates research on HIBE with at
most two delegations per secret key (see Sect. 4), which we leave as a question
for future work and concentrate on UPIBE here.
UPIBE as an Abstraction of KU-KEM. In the context of strongly secure
messaging, many cryptographic protocols use a building block called Key-
Updatable Key Encapsulation Mechanism (KU-KEM) [3,30,32,37]. This extend-
ed form of standard KEM provides an update mechanism with which public
keys and secret keys can be updated independently with respect to arbitrary
bit strings. In addition to the security guarantees of a standard KEM, updates
in KU-KEM are required to achieve forward-secrecy and eﬀective divergence.
This means that an updated secret key cannot decrypt ciphertexts directed to
prior versions of the secret key; and an incompatibly updated secret key cannot
decrypt ciphertexts produced with a corresponding (incompatible) public key.
The only known construction of KU-KEM relies on black-box HIBE with
unbounded hierarchy depth secure against adaptive adversaries [3,30,32,37]. This
induces a signiﬁcant performance penalty and limits the choice of underlying
assumptions (e.g., no practical2 unbounded-depth HIBE from lattices is known).
Intuitively, KU-KEM secret key updates are realized via sequential HIBE del-
egations. Replacing black-box HIBE in this construction by black-box UPIBE
is trivial. Thus, using a black-box HIBE scheme to realize UPIBE is henceforth
referred to as trivial UPIBE construction. By introducing UPIBE as a more gen-
eral notion for KU-KEM, we are the ﬁrst to lift this speciﬁc tool to a suitable
abstraction and reduce the power of (underlying) HIBE to the essential. As we
will see, this also allows for a substantial gain in eﬃciency.
Definitions and Constructions of Secure Messaging. KU-KEM was
developed as a building block for constructions of secure messaging proto-
cols.Interestingly, the impractical performance of prior KU-KEM constructions
even aﬀected security deﬁnitions in the messaging literature. These deﬁnitions
can be divided into two categories: (1) those that require full security with
respect to the modeled threats and (2) those that relax the security requirements
by limiting adversarial power. Generally, relaxed deﬁnitions allow for more eﬃ-
cient constructions. Speciﬁcally, the majority of fully secure messaging protocols
relies on KU-KEM [3,30,32,37], whereas the main motivation for relaxing secu-
rity deﬁnitions was to analyze or develop practical protocols that can dispense
with employing KU-KEM for better eﬃciency [2,18,31]. To emphasize and sub-
2 We stress that the construction of selective-secure HIBE with unbounded delegations
from CDH [17] or from any fully secure IBE [16] is an impressive, yet rather theoretic
result.

6
P. Rösler et al.
stantiate this partition of the literature, Balli et al. [3] proved that KU-KEM
is equivalent to fully secure messaging under weak randomness. We conclude
that KU-KEM and, therefore, UPIBE play a central role in (strongly) secure
messaging.
Efficiency of UPIBE and KU-KEM. The ineﬃciency of the trivial KU-
KEM construction from black-box HIBE leads to two questions that were posed
as open problems in prior work [3,30,37] and which we will address via the
UPIBE approach:
(1) Can we build (KU-KEM from) UPIBE based on weaker assumptions?
(2) Can we build (KU-KEM from) UPIBE with better eﬃciency?
We are the ﬁrst to aﬃrm both questions in three steps.But instead of only giving
answers for the speciﬁc case of KU-KEM, we generalize it to the UPIBE setting
which highlights the reasons for our improvements.
First, we consider bounded-depth UPIBE, which means that the maximal
number of secret-key delegation levels is bounded a priori. Our generic construc-
tion of bounded-depth UPIBE is based on bounded-collusion IBE, for which
we have practical instantiations from standard assumptions like DDH or QR
in the standard model [15,23,42].3 In a second step, we extend the design of
our bounded-depth UPIBE construction to obtain an unbounded-depth UPIBE
scheme. This unbounded-depth UPIBE construction with adaptive security can
be based on bounded-depth HIBE with only selective security in the random
oracle model. Finally, we prove that KU-KEM can be based on UPIBE, where
the number of key updates in KU-KEM is proportionate to the number of key
delegations in UPIBE.
Instantiating our unbounded-depth UPIBE construction with the bounded-
depth HIBE by Boneh et al. [5] reveals the strengths of our approach. We com-
pare this instantiation to the best known instantiation of trivial unbounded-
depth UPIBE via the unbounded-depth HIBE by Gong et al. [24]. This com-
parison shows that our construction is signiﬁcantly more eﬃcient by most rel-
evant measures. In particular, it outperforms the trivial approach substantially
in terms of performance, ciphertext sizes, and encryption key sizes.
A notable feature of our unbounded-depth UPIBE construction is that its
eﬃciency can be dynamically conﬁgured via a parameter ε. Roughly, ε trades
ciphertext size against secret key size. Depending on the performance priorities
in a setting (bandwidth, algorithm runtime, etc.) and depending on the expected
user behavior (average length of identity strings, average number of encryptions
per identity, etc.), this parameter can optimize our construction for deployment
under various conditions. Setting the parameter ε to inﬁnity yields the known
trivial UPIBE construction [30,37]; consequently, there always exists an ε for
which our new UPIBE construction is indeed the best known one.
3 An alternative approach from standard assumptions would be to rely on the fully
secure IBE from CDH by Garg and Döttling [17]. Unfortunately, this will not yield
a practical instantiation.

Unique-Path Identity Based Encryption with Applications
7
Contributions. Our ﬁrst contribution is to abstract the tools in KU-KEM con-
structions to the more general ﬁeld of Identity Based Encryption by, simultane-
ously, reducing the power of standard HIBE to the essential: Unique-Path IBE.
Our deﬁnition from Sect. 2 shows that this new perspective on structurally lim-
ited delegation and collusion is seamlessly embedded in existing (H)IBE notions.
For comprehensibility, we start with building the simpler bounded-depth
UPIBE construction in Sect. 3, which is secure in the standard model (StM):
Adaptive Bounded-Collusion IBE =⇒StM Adaptive Bounded-Depth UPIBE
This construction shows that UPIBE can be based on signiﬁcantly reduced com-
plexity assumptions with a practically (see Footnote 2) relevant design. We also
give a concrete instantiation with small ciphertexts (two group elements) and
secret keys (six group elements and one symmetric key) from DDH that takes
advantage of construction internals of a bounded-collusion IBE by Dodis et
al. [15].
By developing two powerful extensions on top of our ﬁrst generic UPIBE
construction, we are ultimately able to build unbounded-depth UPIBE:
Adaptive Bounded-Depth HIBE =⇒StM Adaptive Unbounded-Depth UPIBE
While conceptually inheriting core ideas of our bounded-depth UPIBE, this sec-
ond unbounded-depth UPIBE construction in Sect. 4 unfolds the full strength
of our approach. Its eﬃciency is dynamically conﬁgurable for diﬀerent deploy-
ment settings and, instantiated with the most suitable bounded-depth selective
HIBE [5], it reaches the best performance results compared to existing work.
Along the way, inspired by techniques that turn selective secure bounded-depth
HIBEs adaptive secure [4,5], we develop a guessing technique which allows for a
signiﬁcantly broader choice of underlying assumptions and more eﬃcient instan-
tiations in the random oracle model (ROM):
Selective Bounded-Depth HIBE =⇒ROM Adaptive Unbounded-Depth UPIBE
We note that when instantiating our construction with lattice HIBEs [1,10], we
obtain the ﬁrst KU-KEM secure under conjectured post-quantum assumptions.
We systematically analyze the performance of our approach when being used
to instantiate KU-KEM in Sect. 7. It is notable that all prior KU-KEM construc-
tions are a trivial special case of our new techniques. This means that our new
constructions always oﬀer the best (known) performance. For clarity, we ﬁrst
present semantically secure constructions of UPIBE. Using techniques known
from KEM combiners [22], we show in Sect. 5 that our constructions can also be
made secure against chosen-ciphertext attacks if the underlying (H)IBE schemes
are.
1.1
Technical Overview
To understand the core idea of our UPIBE constructions, we brieﬂy discuss the
subtle diﬀerence between the security deﬁnitions of standard HIBE and UPIBE.

8
P. Rösler et al.
Although these deﬁnitions are conceptually identical, the crucial limitation of
UPIBE is that at most one delegation per secret key is permitted. This means
that the large tree of delegated secret keys in HIBE is reduced to a unique
delegation path in UPIBE. Consequently, adversaries will essentially expose at
most one UPIBE secret key—all descendant UPIBE keys can be obtained via
delegation by the adversary itself. Consider the identity string that corresponds
to this exposed UPIBE secret key. In relation to this identity string, our natural
security deﬁnition requires only two types of challenge ciphertexts to remain
secure: (1) those that are encrypted to true preﬁx identity strings and (2) those
that are encrypted to identity strings branching oﬀthe exposed key’s identity
string. All remaining challenges can be solved trivially with the exposed secret
key. Our UPIBE constructions exploit this fact to turn all preﬁx identity strings
(case 1) into branched oﬀidentity strings (case 2) by adding a special suﬃx at
the end of every UPIBE identity string.
Combined HIBE Exposure. Having the deﬁnitional diﬀerence in mind, we
will see that multiple colluding exposures in HIBE can be signiﬁcantly more
damaging than the single permitted exposure in UPIBE. More concretely, HIBE
constructions have to make sure that challenge ciphertexts remain secure under
any combination of (non-trivial) secret key exposures in the delegation hierar-
chy. Since the unique-path delegation in UPIBE permits at most one exposure,
UPIBE constructions have to protect challenge ciphertexts only against the sin-
gle most damaging secret key exposure. We illustrate this gap by considering
the eﬀect of a speciﬁc combination of HIBE secret key exposures.
For this we let two exposed HIBE secret keys have identities idex,1 = (id′
1)
and idex,2 = (id1, id′
2), and a single HIBE challenge have identity idch =
(id1, id2), such that id1, id′
1, id2, id′
2 ∈{0, 1}λ, where λ is the bit-length per
delegated sub-identity string. This means, idex,2 and idch branch in delegation
level 2 with id′
2 ̸= id2, and idex,1 branches oﬀthe former two identity strings in
level 1 with id′
1 ̸= id1. Observe that the exposed key with identity idex,1 still
contains information for delegating subordinate keys to the second level, e.g.,
to sub-identity id2 which results in full identity id∗= (id′
1, id2). In contrast,
the exposed key with identity idex,2 does not (need to) contain this information
anymore as it is delegated to level 2 already. However, exposed key with iden-
tity idex,2 may contain information about its own delegation path along the ﬁrst
level with sub-identity string id1, which diﬀers from the information contained in
exposed key with identity idex,1 = (id′
1). One major diﬃculty for building HIBE
is to make sure that the information about delegation along id1 from exposed
key idex,2 cannot be combined harmfully with the secrets available for delega-
tion to level 2 from exposed key idex,1. In particular, this combination should
not suﬃce to obtain a secret key for identity (id1, id2) = idch because this would
solve the challenge. Since the single permitted exposure in UPIBE prevents such
combined exposures, we can simplify the design of our UPIBE constructions,
which makes them more eﬃcient. We stress that this diﬀerence between HIBE
and UPIBE is an inevitable implication of our natural deﬁnition.

Unique-Path Identity Based Encryption with Applications
9
Fig. 1. Conceptual illustration of delegations in the trivial, bounded-depth, and
unbounded-depth UPIBE constructions (here with ε = 2). The black (path of) arrows
realize delegation of a UPIBE identity string with level depth 8. Light gray arrows
indicate alternative and further delegations. White circles represent the (composed)
main public key(s) and ﬁlled dots represent the (composed) delegated secret key(s).
Bounded-Depth UPIBE. One interpretation of the above observation is that
our constructions can assume key material for lower level delegations to be per se
harmless. Using this guarantee, our bounded-depth UPIBE construction imple-
ments each UPIBE delegation level with an individual IBE instance. Intuitively,
this turns the vertical delegation path into a horizontal delegation sequence, as
illustrated in Fig. 1. Our construction’s UPIBE main public and secret key con-
sist of all underlying IBE instances’ main public and secret keys, respectively. For
encryption, the UPIBE identity string is split into multiple IBE sub-strings. The
UPIBE ciphertext is then obtained by executing IBE encryption for each level’s
sub-string and concatenating the resulting IBE ciphertexts. On UPIBE delega-
tion, the respective level’s IBE main secret key is removed after delegating an
identity-speciﬁc secret key for that level. To prove security of this construction,
we use the fact that every challenge identity branches oﬀthe exposed key’s iden-
tity in one of it’s passed delegation levels. Our reduction embeds an underlying
IBE challenge in this branching level, which turns a successful UPIBE adversary
into a successful IBE adversary. The above description of our scheme is highly
simpliﬁed and neglects subtle enhancements that lead to better performance.
Although conceptually simple in the bounded-depth case, this construction does
not extend (trivially) to the unbounded-depth setting.
Unbounded-Depth UPIBE. Therefore, we develop two crucial extensions:
First, we replace each delegation level by an ε-level delegation epoch. In every
such epoch, ε many sequential delegations can be processed. (See Fig. 1 where
ε = 2.) This reduces the number of concatenated ciphertexts by a factor of 1/ε.
Then, we add an epoch-progression mechanism on top of our construction. With
this mechanism, delegation from a fully-delegated epoch progresses dynamically
to the next fresh epoch. This allows us to dispose of the static list of IBE instances
from our bounded-depth construction. One can think of the epoch-progression

10
P. Rösler et al.
mechanism as a Forward-Secure PKE scheme that generates at every step a fresh
starting point for a multi-level epoch in which the actual UPIBE delegations
are conducted. The security proof for our unbounded-depth UPIBE follows the
same idea as the one for our bounded-depth construction, only that it reduces to
bounded-depth HIBE. To rely on only selective bounded-depth HIBE, we develop
a special guessing technique that avoids the exponential loss factor induced by
known techniques [4,5] for turning selective HIBE adaptive secure. We believe
that the solid design—in addition to its enhanced performance—makes our con-
struction attractive for practical applications (such as secure messengers).
Chosen-Ciphertext Security. We investigate the options to obtain CCA
security for UPIBE. Unfortunately, the well known generic BCHK (often also
called CHK) compiler for HIBEs [6,9] is not applicable to UPIBE. While opting
for a form of veriﬁcation-by-re-encryption akin to the Fujisaki-Okamoto (FO)
transform [19] is applicable, one introduces signiﬁcant computational overhead
as well as is bound to the ROM. Instead, we leverage chosen-ciphertext security
of the underlying building blocks by eﬀectively tying together the concatenated
ciphertexts in every UPIBE ciphertext. For simplicity, we referred to UPIBE as
a Message Encryption primitive so far, but all our results actually consider Key
Encapsulation. Therefore, in the case of bounded-depth UPIBE we can make use
of techniques developed in the context of KEM combiners [22]. These versatile
techniques only change the ﬁnal computation of the encapsulated UPIBE key
instead of explicitly authenticating the concatenated ciphertext. A similar idea,
though in the ROM, can be applied in the case of unbounded-depth UPIBE
where the underlying HIBE instances can be eﬃciently made CCA secure via
the BCHK compiler. As a result, our chosen-ciphertext secure constructions are
only minimally less eﬃcient than our semantically secure ones.
2
UPIBE Deﬁnition
For clarity, we consider Identity Based Key Encapsulation primitives instead
of Identity Based Message Encryption in this work. In line with this, we call
public and secret keys encapsulation and decapsulation keys, respectively. Since
Unique-Path IBE is a special case of Hierarchical IBE, we introduce all relevant
IBE notions modularly at once.
Syntax. All of the considered Identity Based Encapsulation (IBE) schemes are
quadruples IE = (IE.gen, IE.enc, IE.dec, IE.del) of algorithms with encapsulation
and decapsulation key spaces EK and DK, respectively, symmetric key space K,
and ciphertext space C.
We specify the considered types of IBE via parameters L, λ, and D. L ﬁxes
the maximal number of sequential delegations (i.e., the maximal number of levels
aka. The depth), λ ﬁxes the bit-length of identity strings for each delegation, and
D ﬁxes the maximal number of delegations per decapsulation key. That means,
for unbounded-depth HIBE we have (L, D) = (∞, 2λ), for bounded-depth HIBE
we have (L, D) = (L, 2λ) for some ﬁxed value L, for unbounded-depth UPIBE we

Unique-Path Identity Based Encryption with Applications
11
have (L, D) = (∞, 1), and for bounded-depth UPIBE we have (L, D) = (L, 1) for
some ﬁxed value L. We treat bounded-collusion IBE as a bounded-depth HIBE
with L = 1 such that the number of colluding users is encoded as the number of
maximal delegations for the main decapsulation key D = D for some constant D.
The four IBE algorithms’ syntax is deﬁned as follows:
– IE.gen : ∅→$ EK × DK
– IE.enc : EK × {0, 1}l·λ →$ C × K, where 0 < l ≤L
– IE.dec : DK × C →K
– IE.del : DK × {0, 1}λ →$ DK
For eﬃciency reasons, we add derivation algorithm IE.der : EK × {0, 1}λ →$
EK that computes (compact) identity-speciﬁc encapsulation keys. This allows
for reducing the combined size of a main encapsulation key ek and a multi-level
identity string id = (id1, . . . , idl), such that IE.enc(ek, (id1, . . . , idl)) can be
turned into IE.enc(IE.der(. . . IE.der(ek, id1) . . . , idl), ϵ).
Correctness. For correctness of all considered types of IBE with parameters L,
λ, and D, we require for all (ek, dk 0) ←$ IE.gen, all id = (id1, . . . , idl) with
idi ∈{0, 1}λ, 0 < i ≤l ≤L, all dk i ←$ IE.del(dk i−1, idi), and all (c, k) ←$
IE.enc(ek, id), that IE.dec(dk l, c) = k.
Security. We deﬁne experiment INDb
IE(A), b ∈{0, 1} that models multi-instance
key indistinguishability. For all considered types of IBE schemes IE, this exper-
iment provides the following oracles to adversary A for which we provide a full
pseudo-code speciﬁcation in the full version [38] :
– Gen: Generates a fresh main key pair (ek, dk) ←$ IE.gen and returns ek
– Del(i, id, id∗): Delegates decapsulation key dk i,(id,id∗) ←$ IE.del(dk i,id, id∗)
from dk i,id with identity string id∗∈{0, 1}λ, unless dk i,id results from L
sequential delegations from a main decapsulation key, or D delegations from
dk i,id were already queried
– Chall(i, id): Issues a challenge encapsulation (c, k0) ←$ IE.enc(ek i, id) to
main encapsulation key ek i and identity string id ∈{0, 1}l·λ, 0 < l ≤L and
returns c as well as key kb, where k1 ←$ K, unless an exposed decapsulation
key was delegated from ek i’s main decapsulation key dk i with an identity
string that equals or is a preﬁx of id
– Exp(i, id): Exposes decapsulation key dk i,id, generated or delegated from
main decapsulation key dk i and identity string id, unless a challenge encap-
sulation to ek i and identity string id′ was queried, such that (ek i, dk i) form
a main key pair and id equals or is a preﬁx of id′
Eventually, the adversary terminates by outputting a guess b′ and wins iﬀb = b′.
If adversary A speciﬁes the challenge(s) at the beginning of the game without
adaptively seeing the return values of other queries, we call A selective and
otherwise adaptive.
With the above adversarial oracles, we capture chosen-plaintext attacks.
Selective chosen-plaintext attacks is a rather weak adversary model that helps us

12
P. Rösler et al.
focusing on the core of our novel ideas when presenting our constructions. Yet, we
also present adaptive chosen-ciphertext secure constructions. An adversary,
attacking such constructions, can additionally query the following oracle:
– Dec(i, id, c): Decapsulates k ←IE.dec(dk i,id, c) of ciphertext c under dk i,id
and returns k, unless c was given to A as a challenge encapsulation to
ek i and id, dk i,id was (sequentially) delegated from dk i with respect to id,
and (ek i, dk i) form a main key pair
Deﬁnition 1. The
advantage
of
adversary
A
in
winning
INDb
IE
is
Advind
IE (A) :=
Pr[IND0
IE(A) = 1] −Pr[IND1
IE(A) = 1]
 .
Compared to standard (bounded-depth) (H)IBE security experiments, the
only diﬀerence is our restriction to at most D delegation queries per decapsulation
key. Yet, challenges can be queried without limiting the choice of identity strings,
even for UPIBE.
3
Bounded-Depth UPIBE from Bounded-Collusion IBE
We present our bounded-depth UPIBE construction in Fig. 2 by explaining its
components one after another, starting with decapsulation keys and ciphertexts.
Structure of Keys and Ciphertexts. The core idea behind our UPIBE construc-
tions is that delegations along the unique ‘vertical’ path of identity levels are
realized ‘horizontally’. That means, for each delegation level in our UPIBE con-
struction from Fig. 2 with bounded-depth L, we use a separate bounded-collusion
IBE instance. Think of these IBE instances being placed horizontally next to one
another from left to right as shown in Fig. 1.
To understand this idea, we describe the structure of UPIBE decapsulation
keys. A UPIBE decapsulation key delegated to level l contains three diﬀerent
types of keys, two of which are IBE decapsulation keys: (1) One ordinary del-
egated IBE decapsulation key for each of the ﬁrst l levels, (2) an additional
special delegated IBE decapsulation key for only level l, and (3) a symmetric
forwarding key from which (un-delegated) IBE main decapsulation keys for all
remaining L−l levels are computed. See Fig. 2 lines 02–06 for UPIBE key gener-
ation that consists of generating all IBE main encapsulation keys and sampling
the initial symmetric forwarding key.
A UPIBE ciphertext, encapsulated to level l (i.e., to identity id ∈{0, 1}l·λ),
consists of one IBE ciphertext for each of the ﬁrst l −1 levels encoded with
suﬃx 1 (lines 23–25) and one additional IBE ciphertext that targets the special
delegated IBE decapsulation key at level l encoded with suﬃx 0 (line 26). To
decapsulate the former l −1 ciphertexts (lines 33–34), the receiver needs to be
in possession of the ﬁrst l−1 ordinary delegated IBE decapsulation keys. Hence,
successful decapsulation shows that the receiver holds a UPIBE decapsulation
key that was correctly delegated along the ﬁrst l−1 levels of the identity path. By
also being able to decapsulate the special lth IBE ciphertext (lines 35–36), the

Unique-Path Identity Based Encryption with Applications
13
Proc IE.gen
00 E[·] ←⊥; D[·] ←⊥
01 fk 0 ←$ {0, 1}λ
02 For l = 0 to L −1:
03
(fk l+1, s) ←G(fk l)
04
(ek ′, dk ′) ←IE.gen′(s)
05
E[l] ←ek ′
06 ek ←E; dk ←(0, ⊥, fk 0)
07 Return (ek, dk)
Proc IE.del(dk, id)
08 Require id ∈{0, 1}λ
09 (l, D, fk) ←dk
10 Require l < L
11 If l > 0:
12
(dk ′
0, dk ′
1) ←D[l −1]
13
D[l −1] ←dk ′
1
14 (fk ′, s) ←G(fk)
15 (ek ′, dk ′) ←IE.gen′(s)
16 dk ′
0 ←$ IE.del′(dk ′, id∥0)
17 dk ′
1 ←$ IE.del′(dk ′, id∥1)
18 D[l] ←(dk ′
0, dk ′
1)
19 dk ←(l + 1, D, fk ′)
20 Return dk
Proc IE.enc(ek, id)
21 Require id ∈{0, 1}l·λ, 0 < l ≤L
22 E ←ek
23 id 0∥. . . ∥id l−1 ←id with id j ∈{0, 1}λ
24 For j = 0 to l −2:
25
(c′
j, k′
j) ←$ IE.enc′(E[j], id j∥1)
26 (c′
l−1, k′
l−1) ←$ IE.enc′(E[l −1], id l−1∥0)
27 C ←c′
0∥. . . ∥c′
l−1
28 K ←W(k′
0, . . . , k′
l−1, C)
29 Return (C, K)
Proc IE.dec(dk, C)
30 (l, D, fk) ←dk
31 c0∥. . . ∥cl′−1 ←C with cj ∈C
32 Require l = l′
33 For j = 0 to l −2:
34
k′
j ←$ IE.dec′(D[i], cj)
35 (dk ′
0, dk ′
1) ←D[l −1]
36 k′
l−1 ←$ IE.dec′(dk ′
0, cl−1)
37 K ←W(k′
0, . . . , k′
l−1, C)
38 Return K
Fig. 2. Construction of bounded-depth UPIBE IE with parameters (L, λ, D = 1) from
PRG G and bounded-collusion IBE scheme IE′ with parameters (L′, λ′, D′) = (1, λ +
1, 2) and ciphertext space C. Core function W is realized as XOR-sum l−1
j=0 k′
j and
ignores input C. In our chosen-ciphertext secure instantiation, we additionally generate
a dummy ciphertext ˆc ←$ C and key ˆk ←$ K in IE.gen, which is included into ek and
W to pad all unused indices i ≤L with ˆc and ˆk respectively.
receiver additionally shows that it holds the full UPIBE decapsulation key that
was delegated along all l levels—and particularly not a UPIBE decapsulation
key that was delegated along an extended identity path.
While a UPIBE ciphertext is a concatenation of all l IBE ciphertexts, the
encapsulated UPIBE key is an XOR-sum of all l encapsulated IBE keys (lines 27–
28). We generalize the computation of the encapsulated key via core function W
to simplify the description of our chosen-ciphertext secure construction in Sect. 5.
Delegation of a UPIBE decapsulation key is in line with the above ideas by
conducting four steps: (a) Removing the special IBE decapsulation key at current
level l, yet keeping all ordinary IBE decapsulation keys until level l (lines 11–13),
(b) computing the next forwarding key as well as a seed by evaluating a PRG on
the current forwarding key (line 14), (c) generating the main IBE decapsulation
key at level l+1 from the obtained seed (line 15), and delegating both the special
delegated IBE decapsulation key for level l + 1 (line 16) as well as the ordinary
delegated IBE decapsulation key for level l + 1 (line 17) from this new main
IBE decapsulation key, and, lastly, (d) removing the just obtained main IBE
decapsulation key at level l + 1 as well as the old forwarding key.

14
P. Rösler et al.
Intuition for Security. The security argument for this construction uses the fact
that adversaries can expose at most one UPIBE decapsulation key per instance
during the security experiment.4 This single exposure reveals precisely one spe-
cial delegated IBE decapsulation key—the current one—, the chain of ordinary
IBE decapsulation keys that were delegated along the exposed UPIBE key’s
identity path, and the current symmetric forwarding key from which future lev-
els’ IBE main decapsulation keys can be obtained. After such an exposure, two
types of UPIBE ciphertexts must remain secure: Those that target true pre-
ﬁxes of the exposed key’s identity string, and those that target identity strings
branching oﬀthe exposed key’s identity string.5 Ciphertexts targeting a true
preﬁx identity string, indeed, remain secure because their decapsulation requires
the use of a higher level special delegated IBE decapsulation key. Such prior
level special IBE keys were removed before the exposure and are, therefore, not
contained in the exposed UPIBE key. Similarly, the decapsulation of cipher-
texts that target a branched oﬀidentity string require the use of an inaccessible
IBE decapsulation key—namely, an ordinary IBE decapsulation key that was
delegated along this branch. Consequently, exposed UPIBE decapsulation keys
do not aﬀect ciphertexts that are required to remain secure. Finally, we note
that at most two delegated decapsulation keys per IBE instance are leaked at
an exposure of a UPIBE decapsulation key. Thus, relying on bounded-collusion
IBE suﬃces, where the number of colluding users is at most 2.
Performance. Bounded-depth UPIBE (and bounded-depth KU-KEM) actually
often suﬃce for secure messaging protocols.6 So far, the only known instantiation
of bounded-depth UPIBE is trivially derived from bounded-depth HIBE. With
our bounded-depth UPIBE construction we demonstrate a signiﬁcant reduction
in complexity of the underlying hardness assumption: bounded-collusion IBE
instead of bounded-depth HIBE. Furthermore, we use this construction to make
the reader familiar with the core ideas of our unbounded-depth UPIBE construc-
tion in Sect. 4.
Without any additional assumptions on the underlying bounded-collusion
IBE, the size of UPIBE encapsulation keys in our construction is linear in the
maximal level depth L, UPIBE decapsulation keys grow with the number of
conducted delegations, and UPIBE ciphertexts grow in the bit-length of their
corresponding identity string.
When instantiating our construction with the DDH-based bounded-collusion
IBE by Dodis et al. [15], we can take advantage of the group structure to aggre-
gate and shrink encapsulation keys, decapsulation keys, and ciphertexts. We give
4 With the exposed UPIBE decapsulation key, the adversary can compute all subse-
quent delegations and decapsulations itself, so further exposures are meaningless.
5 Branching here means that for two identity strings id, id ∗with ℓ∗= min(|id|, |id ∗|),
strings id and id ∗diﬀer in at least one of the ﬁrst ℓ∗bits.
6 E.g., the number of conducted key delegations in the bidirectional messaging protocol
in [36, see page 22] is upper-bounded by the maximal number of ciphertexts that
cross the wire during a round-trip time (i.e., at most a few dozens).

Unique-Path Identity Based Encryption with Applications
15
the concrete instantiation in the full version [38] in which a UPIBE decapsula-
tion key consists of 6 exponents and 1 symmetric key, a UPIBE ciphertext con-
sists of 2 group elements, and a UPIBE encapsulation key consists of 2+3(L−l)
group elements, where l is the level for which the current encapsulation key
is derived via algorithm IE.der. This is highly eﬃcient for settings in which
distribution and storage of large encapsulation keys is cheap.7 Enhancing this
construction to also obtain a compact, constant size encapsulation key remains
an interesting open problem.
Security. For clarity, we ﬁrst consider chosen-plaintext security INDb
IE of our
UPIBE construction:
Theorem 1. Bounded-depth UPIBE protocol IE from Fig. 2 oﬀers adaptive key
indistinguishability in the standard model. More precisely, for every adaptive
chosen-plaintext adversary A attacking protocol IE in games INDb
IE according
to Deﬁnition 1 with parameters (L, λ, D = 1), there exists an adversary BG
attacking PRG G and an adaptive chosen-plaintext adversary BIE′ attacking
bounded-collusion IBE IE′ in games INDb
IE′ according to Deﬁnition 1 with param-
eters (L′, λ′, D′) = (1, λ + 1, 2) such that Advind
IE (A) ≤qGen · L2 · Advind
G (BG) +
qGenl ·qChall ·L·Advind
IE′(BIE′), where qGen and qChall are the number of queries to
oracles Gen and Chall by adversary A, respectively, and the running time of BG
and BIE′ is about that of A.
Security Proof Overview.
For clarity in notation, we refer to oracles in
game INDb
X by adding the scheme’s identiﬁer X as a subscript to the oracle
names (i.e., GenX, ChallX, etc). Also, we ﬁrst sketch our proof by focusing on
a reduction from single-instance security of UPIBE to multi-instance security of
IBE.
Using the PRG, we begin with a hybrid argument that replaces all unex-
posed symmetric forwarding keys and IBE main key pairs with independently
sampled ones. Our reduction BIE′ then almost directly passes oracle queries
from adversary A against our UPIBE construction IE in game INDIE to oracles
of game INDIE′ against the underlying bounded-collusion IBE scheme IE′. The
responses of oracles in game INDIE′ can then be used almost directly to answer
adversary A’s oracle queries in game INDIE. That means, A’s queries to oracle
GenIE can be answered by using responses of simple queries to oracle GenIE′;
the same holds for queries to oracle DelIE.
However,
embedding
challenges
from
game
INDIE′
in
challenges
of
game INDIE is non-trivial. To understand this, we observe that the hardness
of a challenge in game INDIE depends on the delegation path of the ﬁrst (and
w.l.o.g. only) exposed UPIBE decapsulation key in game INDIE. More precisely,
let id∗be the identity string that corresponds to the delegation path of the ﬁrst
7 Consider asymmetric communication for which ciphertexts should be small and
encapsulation keys can be large: E.g., sending large encapsulation keys on hardware
memory from time to time via resupply ﬂights to the International Space Station,
and sending ciphertexts over the air back to earth.

16
P. Rösler et al.
exposure via oracle ExpIE. A challenge directed to identity string id is only con-
sidered hard if id is a true preﬁx of id∗, or if id and id∗diﬀer in at least one
of their ﬁrst ℓ∗bits, where ℓ∗= min(|id|, |id ∗|). On a query to oracle ChallIE
with identity string id, our reduction BIE′ splits id into its λ-long sub-strings and
then identiﬁes in which of these sub-strings the ﬁrst diﬀerence between id and id∗
occurs. For this branching sub-string, reduction BIE′ queries an IBE challenge
via oracle ChallIE′. The resulting IBE challenge-ciphertext and IBE challenge-
key are then embedded in the corresponding UPIBE challenge-ciphertext and
UPIBE challenge-key output of oracle ChallIE. However, reduction BIE′ learns
string id∗only as soon as adversary A calls oracle ExpIE. Hence, for each chal-
lenge issued before this ﬁrst exposure query, reduction BIE′ has to guess in which
sub-string the identities branch. Embedding this guessing step in a hybrid argu-
ment introduces a loss factor of at most qGen · qChall · L, where qGen and qChall
are the numbers of queries to oracles GenIE and ChallIE by adversary A, resp.,
and L is the maximal number of delegation levels for our UPIBE construction.
We provide our formal proof for multi-instance security in the full version [39].
4
Unbounded-Depth UPIBE from Bounded-Depth HIBE
Our unbounded-depth UPIBE construction extends our bounded-depth con-
struction from Sect. 3 twofold: Horizontally, it replaces each level—realized by
an IBE instance in our bounded-depth construction—by a multi-level epoch.
Each epoch can internally handle up to ε sub-identity levels/delegations. The
second extension replaces the static list of IBE main keys at the top of our
bounded-depth UPIBE construction by a dynamic epoch-progression mech-
anism. This mechanism realizes a dynamic progression from one epoch to
another and, thereby, eliminates the a-priori bounded number of sub-identity
levels/delegations; see Fig. 1 for a schematic illustration.
The only component used to build our unbounded-depth UPIBE construction
is a single bounded-depth HIBE scheme. To understand how the (unbounded
number of) UPIBE delegations are processed by this bounded-depth HIBE, we
invite the reader to look at the tree of identities/delegations in this HIBE that
is indicated by gray (dotted) lines and arrows in Fig. 1.
Epoch-Progression via Forward-Secure PKE Technique. In the top α levels of
the HIBE tree, we implement the epoch-progression mechanism, where α =
⌈log(2κ/ε)⌉and κ is the security parameter. Of these α top HIBE delegation lev-
els, we only make use of a binary delegation (sub-)tree. Each path in this binary
tree part of the HIBE tree is the binary-encoding of an epoch number, where
ﬁrst epoch 0 is encoded as the left-most path and last epoch 2κ/ε−1 is encoded
as the right-most path. The lowest nodes in this top binary tree part (i.e., nodes
in level α) represent epoch starting nodes. The ﬁrst epoch starts at the left-most
node which corresponds to the identity string that binary-encodes 0 (i.e., 0α·λ′,
where λ′ is the bit-length of HIBE identity sub-strings per level/delegation). We
defer the explanation of how UPIBE delegations are realized within epochs to

Unique-Path Identity Based Encryption with Applications
17
the next paragraph. As soon as an epoch is completed, the next epoch starts at
the adjacent binary-tree node to the right in level α. (That is, starting nodes of
epochs 2 and 3 correspond to identity strings 0α·λ′−1∥1 and 0(α−1)·λ′−1∥1∥0λ′,
respectively, where each level’s identity sub-string contains a (λ′ −1)-long 0-bit
padding preﬁx.)
Progression from one epoch starting node to the next one follows the well
known idea of Forward-Secure PKE from Binary Tree Encryption [8].8 Roughly,
the epoch-progression mechanism iteratively delegates HIBE decapsulation keys
along the α-long path from the root to the current epoch starting node. During
this path delegation, also decapsulation keys of (binary-tree) siblings along this
path are delegated. After each delegation on this path, the respective parent
node’s key from which the two sibling keys were delegated is deleted. Only the
ﬁrst epoch progression starts at the root of the HIBE tree. All following epoch
progressions start from the lowest level for which a delegated sibling key exists.
This mechanism ensures that only starting nodes of future epochs but not of
previous epochs are accessible.
Multi-level Epochs. Our UPIBE construction splits identity strings of length l·λ
into ε · λ-long epoch sub-strings. Each individual epoch sub-string is delegated
in ε steps vertically in the HIBE tree under its epoch starting node (i.e., each
epoch contains ε delegation levels). Hence, every epoch sub-string in the HIBE
tree looks exactly the same as its UPIBE identity sub-string counterpart (see
Fig. 1). However, instead of being concatenated vertically in the HIBE tree, one
can think of the vertical epoch sub-strings hanging next to one another from left
to right under their epoch starting nodes in level α.
Structure of Keys and Ciphertexts. Despite these two crucial extensions, the
overall idea of our unbounded-depth UPIBE construction is very close to its
bounded-depth counterpart from Sect. 3. This becomes evident when looking at
the structure of UPIBE decapsulation keys and ciphertexts.
A UPIBE decapsulation key at delegation level l contains three types of del-
egated HIBE decapsulation keys: (1) up to α epoch-progression decapsulation
keys, (2) one ordinary decapsulation key for each of the previous ⌈l/ε⌉−1 epochs
and, potentially, one ordinary decapsulation key for the current epoch, and (3) a
special decapsulation key for the current epoch. The epoch-progression decapsu-
lation keys replace the single symmetric forwarding key from our bounded-depth
construction. This allows for eﬃcient delegation of future epochs’ initial decapsu-
lation keys, yet preventing access to previous epochs’ initial decapsulation keys.
Ordinary and special decapsulation keys are used for the actual decapsulation
of UPIBE ciphertexts (almost) as in our bounded-depth construction.
The concrete components of a UPIBE decapsulation key are as follows. One
ordinary HIBE decapsulation key, delegated to the lowest HIBE tree level α +
8 For clarity in our explanation, we slightly deviate from the original BTE-to-FS-PKE
idea by Canetti et al. [8]: We do not use all nodes in the BTE tree as epoch starting
points but only nodes in the lowest level of this BTE component.

18
P. Rösler et al.
ε, is stored for each ﬁnished epoch. All remaining HIBE decapsulation keys,
ever delegated in these prior epochs, are removed from the (delegated) UPIBE
decapsulation key. For the current epoch, a special decapsulation key delegated
to HIBE level α+(l mod ε) in that epoch is stored in the UPIBE decapsulation
key, where l is the overall number of UPIBE delegations so far. When delegating
the UPIBE decapsulation key, this special HIBE decapsulation key is replaced
by a new one for the next level. Only in the last level α + ε of the current epoch
where (l = −1 mod ε), the UPIBE decapsulation key contains two HIBE keys:
a special and an ordinary HIBE decapsulation key.
A UPIBE ciphertext for level l consists of one HIBE ciphertext per existing
epoch, where ⌈l/ε⌉is the number of existing epochs. Each of the ﬁrst ⌈l/ε⌉−1
ciphertexts is directed to its epoch’s ordinary decapsulation key, and the last
ciphertext is directed to the current epoch’s special decapsulation key.
All UPIBE delegations within an epoch delegate a new special HIBE decap-
sulation key from the previous level’s special HIBE decapsulation key. After each
delegation, this previous special HIBE decapsulation key is removed. In the low-
est level of an epoch—in HIBE tree level α + ε—an additional ordinary HIBE
decapsulation key is delegated the from previous level’s special HIBE decapsu-
lation key. This ordinary HIBE decapsulation key is never removed from the
UPIBE decapsulation key.
Intuition for Security. The intuitive security argument for this construction
resembles the one from Sect. 3. Recall that, on exposure of a UPIBE decapsula-
tion key, only those UPIBE encapsulations must remain secure whose targeted
identity string either is a true preﬁx of the exposed key’s identity string or
branches oﬀthe exposed key’s identity string (See Footnote 5). Encapsulations
to true preﬁx identity strings have their last HIBE encapsulation directed to
an earlier special HIBE decapsulation key. This special key is not stored in the
exposed UPIBE decapsulation key anymore, since the latter only contains the
current level’s special HIBE decapsulation key. Encapsulations to branched oﬀ
identity strings have the HIBE encapsulation of the branching epoch directed
to an ordinary HIBE decapsulation key that was never stored in the exposed
UPIBE decapsulation key. Finally, all exposed decapsulation keys of the epoch-
progression mechanism only reveal parts of the HIBE tree from which future
epochs can be delegated. Thus, UPIBE encapsulations of our unbounded-depth
construction remain secure under non-trivial exposures of UPIBE decapsulation
keys.
Construction. We specify our unbounded-depth UPIBE construction formally
in Fig. 3. This construction uses a bounded-depth HIBE with maximal level
depth L = α + ε = ⌈log(2κ/ε)⌉+ ε, where κ is the security parameter.
The UPIBE encapsulation key consists solely of the main HIBE encapsulation
key. The initial UPIBE decapsulation key is generated by executing the epoch-
progression mechanism with the main HIBE decapsulation key to derive the
ﬁrst epoch’s starting decapsulation key (Fig. 3, lines 02–06). More concretely,
this mechanism delegates one ephemeral and one stored decapsulation key in

Unique-Path Identity Based Encryption with Applications
19
Proc IE.gen
00 E[·] ←⊥; Dep[·] ←⊥; Dfs[·] ←⊥
01 (ek ′, dk ′
0) ←$ IE.gen′
02 For j = 0 to α −1:
03
dk ′′
0 ←$ IE.del′(dk ′
0, 0λ+1)
04
dk ′′
1 ←$ IE.del′(dk ′
0, 0λ∥1)
05
dk ′
0 ←dk ′′
0; Dfs[j] ←dk ′′
1
06 Dep[0] ←dk ′
0
07 ek ←ek ′; dk ←(0, Dfs, Dep)
08 Return (ek, dk)
Proc IE.enc(ek, id)
09 Require id ∈{0, 1}l·λ, l ∈N+
10 id 0∥. . . ∥id l−1 ←id with id j ∈{0, 1}λ
11 d ←l mod ε; e ←⌈l/ε⌉
12 For e′ = 0 to e −2:
13
id ′ ←ϵ
14
(e′
0, . . . , e′
α−1) ←e′ with e′
j ∈{0, 1}
15
For j = 0 to α −1:
16
id ′
←0λ∥e′
j
17
For d′ = 0 to ε −2:
18
id ′
←id e′·ε+d′∥1
19
id ′
←id e′·ε+ε−1∥0
20
(c′
e′, k′
e′) ←IE.enc′(ek, id ′)
21 id ′ ←ϵ
22 (e′
0, . . . , e′
α−1) ←e −1 with e′
j ∈{0, 1}
23 For j = 0 to α −1:
24
id ′
←0λ∥e′
i
25 For d′ = 0 to d −1:
26
id ′
←id (e−1)·ε+d′∥1
27 (c′
e−1, k′
e−1) ←IE.enc′(ek, id ′)
28 C ←c′
0∥. . . ∥c′
e−1
29 K ←W(k′
0, . . . , k′
e−1, C)
30 Return (C, K)
Proc IE.dec(dk, C)
31 (l, Dfs, Dep) ←dk
32 d ←l mod ε; e ←⌈l/ε⌉
33 c0∥. . . ∥ce′−1 ←C with cj ∈C
34 Require e = e′
35 For j = 0 to e −2
36
k′
j ←$ IE.dec′(Dep[j], cj)
37 If d ̸= ε −1: dk ′
1 ←Dep[e −1]
38 Else: (dk ′
0, dk ′
1) ←Dep[e −1]
39 k′
e−1 ←$ IE.dec′(dk ′
1, ce−1)
40 K ←W(k′
0, . . . , k′
e−1, C)
41 Return K
Proc IE.del(dk, id)
42 Require id ∈{0, 1}λ
43 (l, Dfs, Dep) ←dk
44 d ←l mod ε; e ←⌊l/ε⌋
45 If d = 0 ∧e > 0:
46
(dk ′
0, dk ′
1) ←Dep[e −1]
47
Dep[e −1] ←dk ′
0
48
j ←msdb(e −1, e)
49
dk ′
0 ←Dfs[j]; Dfs[j] ←⊥
50
For j to α −1:
51
dk ′′
0 ←$ IE.del′(dk ′
0, 0λ+1)
52
dk ′′
1 ←$ IE.del′(dk ′
0, 0λ∥1)
53
dk ′
0 ←dk ′′
0; Dfs[j] ←dk ′′
1
54
Dep[e] ←dk ′
0
55 If d ̸= ε −1:
56
Dep[e] ←$ IE.del′(Dep[e], id∥1)
57 Else:
58
dk ′
0 ←$ IE.del′(Dep[e], id∥0)
59
dk ′
1 ←$ IE.del′(Dep[e], id∥1)
60
Dep[e] ←(dk ′
0, dk ′
1)
61 dk ←(l + 1, Dfs, Dep)
62 Return dk
Fig. 3. Generic construction of unbounded-depth UPIBE IE from bounded-depth
HIBE scheme IE′ with ciphertext space C. Function msdb(x, y) computes the most
signiﬁcant bit in which the bit-representations of x and y diﬀer and core function W
is realized as XOR-sum e−1
j=0 k′
j and ignores input C. In our chosen-ciphertext secure
instantiation we instantiate W with random oracle H⋆.
each of the ﬁrst α HIBE levels (lines 03–04). Ephemeral key dk ′
0 is replaced after
delegating the two decapsulation keys of the next level. Stored key dk ′
1 will be
used for future epoch progressions. In level α, ephemeral key dk ′
0 is set as the
ﬁrst epoch’s starting decapsulation key. We explain the speciﬁc encoding- and
padding-scheme for identity strings at the end of this paragraph.
UPIBE encapsulation splits the targeted identity string id into ε·λ-long epoch
sub-strings. Our pseudo-code separates the processing of the ﬁrst e −1 epoch
sub-strings (lines 12–20) from the last epoch’s sub-string (lines 21–27). Roughly,
each epoch sub-string (composed in lines 17–19 resp. 25–26) is prepended with
a binary encoding of the corresponding epoch number (lines 14–16 resp. 22–

20
P. Rösler et al.
24). The binary encoding preﬁx represents the epoch-progression path to the
epoch’s starting node. For every epoch, an HIBE encapsulation directed to the
concatenated string of binary-encoded epoch number and epoch identity sub-
string is executed (line 20 resp. 27). The ﬁnal UPIBE ciphertext is a simple
concatenation of all epoch HIBE ciphertexts; the output UPIBE key is an XOR-
sum of all encapsulated epoch HIBE keys.
On UPIBE decapsulation, the input ciphertext is decomposed, and each of
the resulting HIBE ciphertexts is decapsulated. For all previous epochs, the
stored lowest level ordinary decapsulation key is used for decapsulation (lines 35–
36). In the current epoch, the special decapsulation key is used for this (line 39).
Depending on whether the current epoch reached its lowest level or not, the spe-
cial decapsulation key is stored solitarily (line 37) or together with the ordinary
decapsulation key (line 38).
In most cases, UPIBE delegation simply uses the current epoch’s special
HIBE decapsulation key together with input identity string id to delegate a new
special HIBE decapsulation key that replaces the prior one (lines 56). Only if
the lowest level of the current epoch is reached, an additional ordinary HIBE
decapsulation key is delegated and stored (line 58–60). A subsequent delega-
tion starts a new epoch and, therefore, uses the epoch-progression mechanism
(lines 45–54). This mechanism starts by deleting the previous epoch’s special
decapsulation key (lines 46–47). Then, it identiﬁes the lowest existing decapsu-
lation key in the underlying binary-tree structure (line 48) with which the next
epoch starting node is delegated (lines 50–54). This subsequent starting node—
basically the immediate neighbor node in the binary tree—is used as the new
epoch’s initial decapsulation key.
We elaborate on some implementation details. To realize a binary tree in the
epoch-progression mechanism, the binary encoding of epoch numbers is padded
with (λ′ −1 = λ) leading 0-bits in every level (lines 03–04, 16, 24, 51–52). For
the composition of epoch sub-strings, each level’s identity sub-string is appended
with a 1-bit (lines 18, 26) except for the last level in any previous epoch; previous
epochs’ last level sub-strings have an appended 0-bit (lines 19). This corresponds
to the use and delegation of special and ordinary decapsulation keys (lines 56,
58–59).
Depth of Multi-level Epochs.
Our unbounded-depth UPIBE construction is
parameterized by variable ε that determines the number of delegations per epoch.
We note that for ε = ∞, our UPIBE construction reduces to the known trivial
delegation design via unbounded-depth HIBE [3,30,37]. Thus, there is always
an ε for which our construction is at least as eﬃcient as the previous approach.
Beyond that, using the ﬂexibility of parameter ε, our construction’s performance
can be adapted to diﬀerent use cases. For example, depending on whether cipher-
texts or decapsulation keys should be small, and depending on the expected
number of delegations in a setting, an optimal value ε can be conﬁgured. Our
full evaluation is in Sect. 7.

Unique-Path Identity Based Encryption with Applications
21
2-Delegation HIBE. We want to note that each HIBE decapsulation key in
our construction from Fig. 3 delegates at most two child decapsulation keys.
Thus, while reducing the level depth parameter L substantially from inﬁnity in
UPIBE to a bounded value in the underlying HIBE, parameter D only grows
from 1 delegation per secret key in UPIBE to 2 in the underlying HIBE. With
our deﬁnition framework from Sect. 2 and our new perspective on delegation-
restricted HIBE, we lay the foundation for future work that may investigate
whether bounded-depth HIBE with limited delegation of D = 2 can be built
more eﬃciently than general bounded-depth HIBE.
Security. To support comprehensibility and avoid idealized assumptions, we ﬁrst
reduce adaptive chosen-plaintext security INDb
IE of our UPIBE construction to
adaptive security of the underlying HIBE in the standard model. In Sect. 4.1,
we augment our reduction with a new guessing technique that allows us to
trade the strength of the underlying HIBE (only selective security instead of
adaptive security) against idealized assumptions (random oracle model instead of
standard model). Relying only on selective secure HIBEs for adaptive security of
our UPIBE signiﬁcantly extends the class of available HIBE constructions from
the literature. For full security against chosen-ciphertext attacks, we consider
diﬀerent generic and direct techniques in Sect. 5.
Theorem 2. Unbounded-depth UPIBE protocol IE from Fig. 3 oﬀers adaptive
key indistinguishability in the standard model. More precisely, for every adaptive
chosen-plaintext adversary A attacking protocol IE in games INDb
IE according
to Deﬁnition 1 with parameters (L = ∞, λ, D = 1), there exists an adaptive
chosen-plaintext adversary B attacking bounded-depth HIBE IE′ in games INDb
IE′
according to Deﬁnition 1 with parameters (L′, λ′, D′) = (⌈log(2κ/ε)⌉+ε, λ+1, 2)
such that Advind
IE (A) ≤qGen · qChall · ⌈llong/ε⌉· Advind
IE′(B), where κ is the security
parameter, ε is the construction’s epoch-depth parameter, qChall and qChall are
the numbers of queries to oracles Gen and Chall by adversary A, respectively,
llong is the level-depth of the longest identity string queried to oracle Chall by
adversary A, and the running time of B is about that of A.
Security Proof Overview. Our security proof for Theorem 2 is very similar to the
one for Theorem 1. The major technical diﬀerence is that here the security of each
UPIBE instance is reduced to only one bounded-depth HIBE instance’s security.
Reduction B, again, simulates all oracle queries of adversary A in game INDIE
via queries to oracles in game INDIE′. As in our proof from Sect. 3, for certain
UPIBE challenge queries to oracle ChallIE, the reduction has to guess where to
embed underlying HIBE challenges of game INDIE′. A hybrid argument that
implements theses guesses cause the loss factor in our advantage bound. The
general strategy for embedding challenges is to determine where the identity
string input of oracle ChallIE branches oﬀthe delegation path of (potentially)
exposed UPIBE decapsulation keys. In contrast to our proof of Theorem 1,
reduction B here only needs to guess the epoch of the sub-string in which the
identity strings of challenge and exposure branch lie. We provide our formal
proof in the full version [38].

22
P. Rösler et al.
4.1
Relaxing Assumptions: Adaptive UPIBE from Selective HIBE
The above outlined standard model proof for our unbounded-depth UPIBE
construction from Fig. 3 relies on adaptive secure bounded-depth HIBE. Yet,
the most suitable bounded-depth HIBEs (e.g., [5]) are only selective secure.
Generic techniques for turning selective secure schemes adaptive secure, as done
in [1,4,5,10], rely on the random oracle model and induce an exponential loss
factor in the HIBE’s maximal level depth L. The simple idea of these techniques
is to replace each identity sub-string in the construction by the output of a ran-
dom oracle evaluated on this identity sub-string (i.e., id0∥. . . ∥idl is replaced by
H(id0)∥. . . ∥H(idl)). The reduction then embeds sub-strings of the selective chal-
lenge identity in randomly chosen random-oracle-outputs. A reduction succeeds
if it embeds the selective challenge sub-strings in those random-oracle-outputs
whose input identity sub-strings form the adaptive challenge. This induces an
exponential loss in the maximal number of identity sub-strings per adaptive chal-
lenge. This is problematic because our UPIBE construction relies on an adaptive
secure bounded-depth HIBE with parameter L = α + ε = ⌈log(2κ/ε)⌉+ ε, which
is linear in the security parameter κ. Thus, the loss factor would be exponential
in κ when following the generic approach of turning the underlying HIBE adap-
tive secure [1,4,5,10] before using this HIBE to instantiate our unbounded-depth
UPIBE construction.
Solution: Guessing Essentials Only. Due to the way our construction makes use
of the underlying bounded-depth HIBE, we can carefully change the generic app-
roach from [4,5] in order to relax the assumption on the HIBE from adaptive
to selective security. Our main observation is that the two (virtual) compo-
nents in our UPIBE construction—epoch-progression mechanism and multi-level
epochs—encode information of diﬀerent density. For this, consider an HIBE iden-
tity string to which our UPIBE encapsulation internally issues an HIBE encap-
sulation. The ﬁrst part of such an HIBE identity string encodes an integer that
represents the epoch number in the upper epoch-progression mechanism. The
second part encodes a sub-string of the actual UPIBE identity string (i.e., the
identity sub-string for one epoch).
In order to embed a selective HIBE challenge in the adaptive UPIBE chal-
lenge, our reduction has to predict the branching epoch’s full HIBE identity
string in advance. In this epoch, the UPIBE challenge identity branches oﬀthe
delegated identity of the corresponding (exposed) UPIBE decapsulation key. To
predict this epoch’s full HIBE identity string, we treat the two parts—epoch
number and sub-string of UPIBE identity—diﬀerently. The branching epoch
number can simply be guessed with high probability. The reason is that poly-
nomially bounded users (and adversaries) only issue UPIBE identity strings of
polynomial length. Thus, also the number of epochs used to represent a UPIBE
identity string is polynomially bounded. To predict the second part of the HIBE
identity string—the branching epoch’s sub-string of the actual UPIBE identity
string—we employ the generic technique [4,5] based on the random oracle model.

Unique-Path Identity Based Encryption with Applications
23
Since the depth of each multi-level epoch is bounded by constant parameter ε,
the loss induced by this technique is only polynomial (not exponential) in κ.
Concrete Adjustments. We interpose a random oracle H in the following lines of
our construction in Fig. 3: 18: id′
←H(ide′·ε+d′∥1); 19: id′
←H(ide′·ε+ε−1∥0);
26: id′
←H(id(e−1)·ε+d′∥1); 56: Dep[e] ←$ IE.del′(Dep[e], H(id∥1)); 58: dk ′
0 ←$
IE.del′(Dep[e], H(id∥0)); 59: dk ′
1 ←$ IE.del′(Dep[e], H(id∥1)). However, we leave
the identity sub-strings of the upper epoch-progression mechanism untouched.
Thus, lines 03–04, 16, 24, and 51–52 remain the same. A full proof of following
Theorem 3 is given in the full version [39].
Theorem 3. Adjusting unbounded-depth UPIBE protocol IE from Fig. 3 oﬀers
adaptive key indistinguishability in the random oracle model. More precisely,
let H be a random oracle, then for every adaptive chosen-plaintext adver-
sary A attacking protocol IE in games INDb
IE according to Deﬁnition 1 with
parameters (L = ∞, λ, D = 1), there exists a selective chosen-plaintext adver-
sary B attacking bounded-depth HIBE IE′ in games INDb
IE′ according to Def-
inition 1 with parameters (L′, λ′, D′) = (⌈log(2κ/ε)⌉+ ε, λ + 1, 2) such that
Advind
IE (A) ≤qGen · qChall · ((llong)2 · (qH)ε) · Advind
IE′(B), where κ is the security
parameter, ε is the construction’s epoch-depth parameter, qGen, qChall, and qH
are the number of queries to oracles Gen, Chall and the random oracle by adver-
sary A, respectively, llong is the level-depth of the longest identity string queried
to oracle Chall by adversary A, and the running time of B is about that of A.
5
CCA Secure UPIBE
Now we turn our focus on the task of achieving chosen-ciphertext security for
bounded- and unbounded-depth UPIBE. While it might be tempting to think
that similar to HIBEs one could generically convert CPA-secure UPIBE into
CCA-secure ones using the BCHK (often also called CHK) compiler [6,9], this
unfortunately does not work: BCHK needs one delegation per decapsulation
from the same decapsulation key, but UPIBE only oﬀers one delegation for
each decapsulation key in total. Thus, we need to adopt diﬀerent strategies for
constructing CCA-secure UPIBE.
5.1
Bounded-Depth UPIBE
FO-Transform. Having in mind that we construct bounded-depth UPIBE from
(bounded-collusion) IBE, a natural choice is to apply the Fujisaki-Okamoto (FO)
transform [19] and in particular one of its modular variants [28]. FO typically
considers single instances, but in our construction of UPIBE one has to deal
with multiple parallel IBE ciphertexts and this requires some care. Recently,
Cini et al. in [11] considered this issue of parallel ciphertexts in FO for reducing
decryption errors as well as constructing Bloom-Filter KEMs (BFKEMs) from
IBE. Though [11] relies on a single IBE instance, it is quite straightforward to

24
P. Rösler et al.
adapt their approach to UPIBE.9 Unfortunately, using FO in this way, besides
being bound to the random oracle model (ROM), requires an overhead of l
encryptions of the underlying IBE during decapsulation, which can be signiﬁcant.
Split-Key PRF. An alternative, more eﬃcient, and more ﬂexible approach is
made possible when we view our UPIBE construction in Sect. 3 as parallel
bounded-collusion IBE and take inspiration from Giacon et al. [22]. In par-
ticular, recall that our overall ciphertext C = c′
0∥. . . ∥c′
l−1 is the concatenation
of l ciphertexts of independent IBEs and the encapsulation key is computed
as K ←W(k′
0, . . . , k′
l−1, C), where W represents what is called a core func-
tion by Giacon et al. [22]. We note that [22] focuses on parallel KEM com-
biners, and show that if W is a split-key pseudorandom function (skPRF), it
yields a CCA-secure KEM if at least one of the l KEMs is CCA secure. Various
instantiations of skPRFs in the ROM and standard model with diﬀerent types
of trade-oﬀs are discussed in [22]. For instance the PRF-then-XOR composi-
tion W(k′
0, . . . , k′
l−1, C) := l−1
i=0 Fi(k′
i, C), where Fi’s are PRFs, is a skPRF in
the standard model. Our focus now is not on combiners and as the use of our
instances is dynamic (i.e., the depth can vary), this does not work for UPIBE.
Here we need to require that all instances are CCA secure. Nevertheless, as
we discuss below, the use of an skPRF still gives advantages when it comes to
standard model constructions.
Achieving CCA-Secure IBE. While CCA security can be easily achieved in the
ROM by starting from a CPA-secure (bounded-collusion) IBE and applying the
FO transform, the overall overhead due to the FO is identical when directly
applying FO (as discussed above). However, we can obtain CCA-secure bounded-
depth UPIBE in the standard model when relying on an IBE scheme that directly
provides CCA security in the standard model (e.g., [20] or the CCA-secure ver-
sion of the bounded-collusion IBE in [15]). Alternatively, if one accepts that the
IBEs are replaced by CPA-secure depth 2 HIBEs, one can simply use the BCHK
compiler [6,9].
Now, we will show that the bounded-depth UPIBE protocol from Fig. 2
is CCA-secure when the underlying bounded-collusion IBE IE′ is CCA-secure
(e.g., [15]) and the core function W is based on a split-key pseudorandom func-
tion F with n = L (cf. the full version [38] for the deﬁnition). For reasons that
we will discuss below, we include a special KEM key ˆk and a special ciphertext
ˆc into ek of the UPIBE protocol IE in order to “pad” calls to W to always take
L inputs (for all cases where depth l < L).
Theorem 4. Bounded-depth UPIBE protocol IE from Fig. 2 oﬀers adaptive
key indistinguishability under chosen-ciphertext attacks in the standard model.
9 We would sample a random key k and derive (r0, . . . , rl−1, k′) = G(k) from a random
oracle G and encapsulate ki with randomness ri for the i’th instance such that
K = k0 ⊕. . . ⊕kl−1 and then use k′ as the overall encapsulation key.

Unique-Path Identity Based Encryption with Applications
25
More precisely, for every adaptive chosen-ciphertext adversary A attack-
ing protocol IE in games INDb
IE according to Deﬁnition 1 with parame-
ters (L, λ, D = 1), there exists an adversary BG attacking PRG G, an adver-
sary BW against the split-key pseudorandomness of W , and an adaptive chosen-
ciphertext adversary BIE′ attacking bounded-collusion IBE IE′ in games INDb
IE′
according to Deﬁnition 1 with parameters (L′, λ′, D′) = (1, λ + 1, 2) such
that
Advind
IE (A)
≤
qGenL2 ·

qGenqChallL Advind
G (BG) + 1

+ 2qGenqChallL ·

qChall Advpr
Fi(BW)+Advind
IE′(BIE′)

,
where qChall and qGen are the number of
queries to oracle Chall and Gen by adversary A, and the running times of BG,
BW, and BIE′ is about that of A.
Security Proof Overview. The strategy for the proof is analogous to that of
Theorem 1, but we will proceed in a sequence of Games moving from the game
IND0
IE to IND1
IE, which allows us to follow the strategy by Giacon et al. [22].
In contrast to their proof, in our case all instances are required to be CCA
secure. This is since we require CCA security of the underlying IBE IE′ at the
branching positions of identities that are asked to the challenge oracle, which
can be placed at any of the L positions adaptively. We need to take some care
when using the pseudorandomness of the split-key pseudorandom function for
W, as we use n = L but the number of required inputs vary with the actual
depth of the identities l. Therefore, we always use L inputs for calls to W where
for the L −l rightmost inputs we simply use a ﬁxed key ˆk and ciphertext ˆc (we
will not make this fact explicit in the proof). We provide a formal proof in the
full version [38].
5.2
Unbounded-Depth UPIBE
For the same reasons as discussed in Sect. 5.1 we prefer to avoid a generic use
of the FO transform for proving CCA security of our unbounded-depth UPIBE.
Unfortunately, the generic skPRF approach pursued in Sect. 5.1 requires an a
priori bound on the depth, which is not the case for unbounded-depth UPIBE.
Consequently, although we follow the same overall idea, as already mentioned
in Fig. 3, we instantiate the core function W directly by a random oracle H⋆,
i.e., derive the overall key as K ←H⋆(k1, . . . , kl, c1, . . . , cl) where (ki, ci) are
the encapsulation outputs of the chosen-ciphertext secure bounded HIBE. Since
our focus is on eﬃciency, and the strategy to prove Theorem 3 already requires
the ROM, this seems to be a meaningful choice. For CCA security of the single
ciphertexts of the underlying bounded-depth HIBE, the most eﬃcient approach
is a use of the BCHK compiler [6,9]. This yields a very ﬂexible approach as
due to the choice of the required strongly secure signature scheme there are
many performance and bandwidth trade-oﬀs available (see also Sect. 7). Using
this strategy we can show the following for our unbounded-depth UPIBE. The
proof of Theorem 5 is provided in the full version [38].

26
P. Rösler et al.
Theorem 5. Adjusting unbounded-depth UPIBE protocol IE from Fig. 3 as
described in Sect. 4.1 oﬀers adaptive key indistinguishability under chosen-
ciphertext attacks in the random oracle model. More precisely, let H and
H⋆be random oracles, then for every adaptive chosen-ciphertext adversary A
attacking protocol IE in games INDb
IE according to Deﬁnition 1 with param-
eters (L = ∞, λ, D = 1), there exists a selective chosen-ciphertext adver-
sary B attacking bounded-depth HIBE IE′ in games INDb
IE′ according to Def-
inition 1 with parameters (L′, λ′, D′) = (⌈log(2κ/ε)⌉+ ε, λ + 1, 2) such that
Advind
IE (A) ≤qGen · qChall · ((llong)2 · (qH)ε) ·

Advind
IE′(B) + qChall·qH⋆
|K|

where κ
is the security parameter, ε is the construction’s epoch-depth parameter, qChall,
qGen, qH and qH⋆are queries to oracles Chall, Gen and random oracles H and H⋆
by adversary A, respectively, llong is the level-depth of the longest identity string
queried to oracle Chall by adversary A, and the running time of B is about that
of A.
6
Key-Updatable KEM from UPIBE
A Key-Updatable Key Encapsulation Mechanism (KU-KEM) [30,37] is a KEM
K = (K.gen, K.enc, K.dec, K.up) with additional update algorithms K.up for
encapsulation keys and decapsulation keys. The computation of each update
ek ′ ←$ K.up(ek, ad) resp. dk ′ ←$ K.up(dk, ad) is determined by a bit string ad
that is arbitrarily chosen by the user. One can think of these update bit strings
as new information (aka. associated data) that is added to the context of the
ongoing session. Updates of encapsulation keys and decapsulation keys can be
conducted independently without information being transmitted between hold-
ers of encapsulation and decapsulation key. The feature of independent updates
with respect to bit strings constitutes the crucial diﬀerence to signiﬁcantly weaker
notions like Updatable PKE [14,31] that oﬀer more eﬃcient instantiations. We
refer the interested reader to a discussion by Balli et al. [3] who elaborate on the
shortcomings of Updatable PKE in the context of strongly secure messaging.
As long as both components of a KU-KEM key pair are updated with respect
to the same bit strings—meaning, their context is updated compatibly—, the key
pair remains compatible. More precisely, a generated pair consisting of encap-
sulation key and decapsulation key remains compatible if the list of bit strings
for updates applied on the encapsulation key equals the list of bit strings for
updates applied on the decapsulation key. We follow the slightly stronger vari-
ant of KU-KEM by Balli et al. [3] that furthermore requires for compatibility of
a key pair that the list of bit strings for updates together with the list of sent
and received encapsulation ciphertexts equals on both sides.
For security of KU-KEM, two goals beyond pure key-indistinguishability are
required: (1) Forward-secrecy, meaning that an updated future version of the
current decapsulation key can be exposed to an adversary without harming con-
ﬁdentiality of ciphertexts produced with a current or previous (compatible) ver-
sion of the corresponding encapsulation key—in short, old ciphertexts remain

Unique-Path Identity Based Encryption with Applications
27
secure if future decapsulation keys are exposed; (2) Eﬀective divergence, mean-
ing that an incompatible decapsulation key can be exposed to an adversary
without harming conﬁdentiality of ciphertexts produced with the corresponding
(incompatible) encapsulation key—in short, any diﬀerence in update bit strings
makes encapsulation key and decapsulation key fully independent.
KU-KEM is a special form of UPIBE where KU-KEM update bit strings
are implemented via UPIBE identity sub-strings, KU-KEM decapsulation key
updates are realized via UPIBE delegations, and KU-KEM encapsulation key
updates are realized via UPIBE derivations. The construction of KU-KEM
from UPIBE is, therefore, straight forward: K.gen := IE.gen; K.up(ek, ad) :=
IE.der(ek, ad = id) resp. K.up(dk, ad) := IE.del(dk, ad = id); K.enc(ek) exe-
cutes IE.enc(ek, ϵ) and updates ek via IE.der(ek, ad = c); K.dec(dk, c) executes
IE.dec(dk, c) and updates dk via IE.del(dk, ad = c). (Pseudo-code is given in
the full version [38]. ) This construction was ﬁrst proposed by Poettering and
Rösler [37] and slightly adapted in other works [3,30]. Yet, we are the ﬁrst
to reduce the underlying assumption from general unbounded-depth HIBE to
unbounded-depth UPIBE.
For space reasons, we
defer the formal deﬁnition
of KU-KEM by Balli et al. [3] as well as our proof of Theorem 6 to
the full
version [38]. This proof tightly reduces the security of the KU-KEM construc-
tion to adaptive chosen-ciphertext security of the underlying unbounded-depth
UPIBE scheme.
Theorem 6. KU-KEM protocol K oﬀers one-wayness of encapsulated keys.
More precisely, for every adaptive chosen-ciphertext adversary A attacking
protocol K , there exists an adaptive chosen-ciphertext adversary B attacking
unbounded-depth HIBE IE in games INDb
IE according to Deﬁnition 1 with param-
eters (L′, λ′, D′) = (∞, λ, 1) such that Advkuow
K
(A) ≤Advind
IE (B), where the run-
ning time of B is about that of A.
7
Evaluation
Our evaluation considers (asymptotic and concrete) parameter sizes of one-way
CCA (formally, KUOW) secure KU-KEMs built trivially from unbounded-depth
HIBEs on the one side and KU-KEMs based on our UPIBE construction that
relies on bounded-depth HIBEs from Sect. 5.2 on the other side. Before starting
the concrete analysis, we note that CCA security of (un)bounded-depth HIBEs
can be generically achieved eﬃciently via the BCHK transform [6,9] using a
strongly secure one-time-signature scheme.10
Since we have applicability and performance in mind for our application
towards optimally secure messaging protocols, we include bounded-depth HIBE
schemes that are secure in the random-oracle model (ROM). Moreover, we
looked at all applicable unbounded-depth HIBEs and selected three construc-
tions [24,34,35] that suit the application we have in mind best. Depending on
10 In our concrete setting, for standard-model HIBEs, we use Groth’s pairing-free sig-
nature scheme [26] while for HIBEs in the ROM, we use Schnorr signatures [40].

28
P. Rösler et al.
Table 1. Comparison of CCA secure KU-KEMs with parameter sizes and perfor-
mance instantiated from the standard-model unbounded-depth HIBEs L [35], LP [34],
and GCTC [24] (trivially) and the bounded-depth HIBE BBG [5] (via our KU-KEM-
from-UPIBE approach from Sect. 6). Here, α + ε is the maximum level (and α can be
considered linear in the security parameter), l is the current number of key updates, γ
is the output bit length of a collision-resistant hash function, and ε is the epoch-depth
in our UPIBE. n ≥1 is the performance parameter of GCTC [24]. We use the type-3
pairing setting with e : G1 × G2 →GT for prime-order groups G1, G2, and GT . Here,
we do not consider the tightness of the reductions to the underlying assumptions.
UPIBE Via HIBE
Encapsulation key size
Ciphertext size
Decapsulation key size
Model
Triv.
L [35]
60|G1| + 2|GT | + lλ
(10l + 12)|G1|
(10l + 60)|G2|
StM
Triv.
LP [34]
(2γ + 4)|G1| + (2γ + 6)|G2| + lλ
(7l + 11)|G1|
(7l + 2)|G2|
StM
Triv.
GCTC [24]
(3n + 9 + ⌈l/n⌉)|G1| + 3|GT |
(9⌈(l + 1)/n⌉+ 2)|G1| ((9 + 3n)⌈l/n⌉+ 3n + 9 −3l)|G2|
StM
Ours
BBG [5]
(1 + ⌈l/ε⌉)|G1| + 1|G2|
(3⌈l/ε⌉)|G1|
(O(α · (α + ε)) + ⌈l/ε⌉+ α)|G2|
ROM
UPIBE Via HIBE
Key generation (# exp.)
Encapsulation (# exp.)
Decapsulation (# exp., # pairings)
Ass.
Triv.
L [35]
60 (G1), 80 (G2), 2 (GT )
60l + 62 (G1), 2 (GT )
(61l (G2), 10l + 1)
DLIN
Triv.
LP [34]
(2γ + 4) (G1), (2γ + 6) (G2)
(7l + 11) (G2), 2 (GT )
((7(l + 1) + 2) (G2), (7l + 2) + 1)
SXDH
Triv.
GCTC [24]
6(n + 3) (G2), 1 (GT )
(15⌈l/n⌉+ 3l) (G1), 3 (GT )
(15⌈l/n⌉+ 3l (G2), 9⌈l/n⌉+ 1)
SXDH
Ours
BBG [5]
1 (G1), 1 (G2)
((⌈l/ε⌉+ 5) (G1), 1 (GT )
(ε + α/ε + 2) (G2), 2⌈l/ε⌉)
BDHE
the concrete bounded-depth HIBE scheme, it is a common technique to reduce
public parameter sizes in the ROM [5]. This, however, does not work generi-
cally. Particularly, in the HIBE scheme by Gong et al. (GCTC) [24], the under-
lying encapsulation key structure seemingly prevents this form of parameter
compression. The same seems to be the case for Langrehr-Pan (LP) [34], while
Lewko (L) [35] already has compact encapsulation keys (however, with a large
constant).
For our KU-KEM construction via the UPIBE paradigm (where we only
require a selectively secure HIBE with polynomially bounded depth), the
strongest candidate is the Boneh-Boyen-Goh (BBG) HIBE [5]. Here, encapsula-
tion key size is only two group elements using the ROM. However, we cannot
utilize the ROM to reduce the size of BBG decapsulation keys since these keys
require a certain structure. Hence, the BBG HIBE has linear-size decapsula-
tion keys, but enjoys constant-size encapsulation keys and ciphertexts (all in the
maximal depth).
By considering the most eﬃcient (un)bounded-depth HIBE schemes, we con-
duct a fair comparison between KU-KEMs from trivial UPIBE via unbounded-
depth HIBE and KU-KEMs from our novel UPIBE construction. In Table 1, we
list CCA secure KU-KEMs from CCA secure (un)bounded-depth HIBEs with
relevant size and performance parameters.
We see that all but one known trivial KU-KEM instantiations via [24,34,35]
have ciphertext and decapsulation-key sizes that scale linearly in the number
of delegations (which corresponds to KU-KEM key updates). Only GCTC [24]
has a trade-oﬀfor ciphertext and key sizes via their performance parameter
n. With our non-trivial UPIBE approach from bounded-depth HIBEs, taking
the BBG scheme [5] as instantiation, we obtain ciphertext sizes that only scale
linearly in the number of epochs, which can be adjusted by the depth-parameter ε

Unique-Path Identity Based Encryption with Applications
29
Fig. 4. Comparison of CCA secure KU-KEM encapsulation and decapsulation key as
well as ciphertext sizes in kilobytes (KB) from (un)bounded-depth HIBEs. For the
pairing group, we chose BLS12-381 (which gives around 128 bit security); this means
per element in G1, G2, and GT , we have 382, 764, 4572 bits.
as described in Sect. 4. Moreover, our KU-KEM approach via BBG enjoys very
short encapsulation keys. This yields a signiﬁcant reduction in encapsulation key
and ciphertext sizes for KU-KEMs compared to other approaches (see Table 1).
Detailed Analysis. For our following analysis concerning parameter sizes and per-
formance, from the three trivial standard-model KU-KEMs based on unbounded-
depth HIBEs [24,34,35], we chose GCTC [24] which outperforms the other
two—particularly because of their scalability parameter n that allows to trade-
oﬀciphertext and encapsulation/decapsulation key sizes.11 Hence, the GCTC
scheme is the best suitable reference instantiation of KU-KEM via the trivial
UPIBE construction for a concrete comparison regarding the applications we
have in mind.
Application Requirements. Our focus is on short ciphertexts and encapsulations
keys (for bandwidth reasons) while on the sender and the receiver sides, we
11 Essentially, GCTC [24] improves Lewko [35] towards shorter ciphertext sizes and LP
[34] deals with tightness of the Lewko scheme [35], at the expense of rather large
encapsulation keys (see γ-factor).

30
P. Rösler et al.
Fig. 5. Comparison of CCA secure KU-KEM key generation, encapsulation, and decap-
sulation performance from un-/bounded-depth HIBEs. We estimate that a G1 expo-
nentiation is 10 times more eﬃcient than a pairing.
want fast encapsulation and fast decapsulation, respectively. As we argue now,
our non-trivial UPIBE approach with BBG outperforms the trivial KU-KEM
construction with GCTC in all of the metrics mentioned above. We recall that
our KU-KEM decapsulation is based on the actual ciphertext decapsulation
and an additional key delegation of the underlying HIBE. Moreover, we can
compress the identity string via algorithm IE.der to compute an identity-speciﬁc
encapsulation key for BBG and GCTC. We currently do not see how to perform
this compression for [34,35].
Bandwidth Comparison. We observe that the performance parameter n in GCTC
plays a similar role as our depth parameter ε in UPIBE; hence, we compare it at
the same level. As illustrative examples, we choose ε = n = 6 and ε = n = 40.
From the graphs in Figs. 4 and 5, we see that the encapsulation key for the
BBG-based KU-KEM is very short. The ciphertext size of all KU-KEMs scales
with ε and n. Our BBG-based approach has the shortest ciphertext sizes of all.
For decapsulation key sizes, the GCTC approach is more eﬃcient; however, as
we argued with the application of secure messaging in mind, this is tolerable.
Hence, concerning parameter sizes, we conclude that the BBG approach has
shorter ciphertexts and smaller encapsulation key at the expense of slightly larger
decapsulation keys compared to the trivial GCTC-based KU-KEM approach.
Computation Comparison. In terms of computation complexity (Fig. 5), we see
that the BBG approach signiﬁcantly outperforms the GCTC-based approach for
encapsulation and decapsulation. The (initial) key generation for the BBG-based
and for GCTC-based approaches are comparable eﬃciency-wise and constant in
the number of key updates; our approach needs α many exponentiations while
GCTC’s number of exponentiations scales linearly in their performance parame-
ter n. For encapsulation and decapsulation (where latter uses key delegation and
decryption of the underlying HIBE), the BBG-based KU-KEM is more eﬃcient;
particularly, in situations when a large number of key updates is needed. See

Unique-Path Identity Based Encryption with Applications
31
that the larger ε, the more eﬃcient is the decapsulation of the BBG-based KU-
KEM approach. The reason is that the BBG HIBE ciphertexts are of constant
size and need only a constant number of pairings per ciphertext for decryption.
Summary. In conclusion, a KU-KEM via our unbounded-depth UPIBE construc-
tion, instantiated with the BBG HIBE, has shorter ciphertext and encapsulation-
key sizes compared to the GCTC-based solution with analogous parameter
choices (being the most eﬃcient unbounded-depth HIBE known for trivial
UPIBE) at the expense of a slightly larger decapsulation key. Additionally, the
decapsulation and, particularly, the encapsulation of the BBG-based KU-KEM
are signiﬁcantly more eﬃcient compared to the GCTC-based trivial KU-KEM.
Hence, for our envisioned application of strongly secure messaging, we can toler-
ate slightly larger decapsulation keys while achieving more eﬃcient decapsulation
and encapsulation as those operations happen rather often in KU-KEMs.
Acknowledgements. This work was supported by the ECSEL Joint Undertaking
(JU) under grant agreement No 826610 (Comp4Drones) and by the Austrian Science
Fund (FWF) and netidee SCIENCE under grant agreement P31621-N38 (Profet).
References
1. Agrawal, S., Boneh, D., Boyen, X.: Eﬃcient lattice (H)IBE in the standard model.
In: Gilbert, H. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2010. LNCS, vol. 6110, pp. 553–572. Springer,
Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-13190-5_28
2. Alwen, J., Coretti, S., Dodis, Y.: The double ratchet: security notions, proofs, and
modularization for the signal protocol. In: Ishai, Y., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EURO-
CRYPT 2019. LNCS, vol. 11476, pp. 129–158. Springer, Cham (2019). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-17653-2_5
3. Balli, F., Rösler, P., Vaudenay, S.: Determining the core primitive for optimally
secure ratcheting. In: Moriai, S., Wang, H. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2020. LNCS, vol.
12493, pp. 621–650. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
64840-4_21
4. Boneh, D., Boyen, X.: Eﬃcient selective-ID secure identity-based encryption with-
out random oracles. In: Cachin, C., Camenisch, J.L. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2004.
LNCS, vol. 3027, pp. 223–238. Springer, Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-540-24676-3_14
5. Boneh, D., Boyen, X., Goh, E.-J.: Hierarchical identity based encryption with
constant size ciphertext. In: Cramer, R. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2005. LNCS, vol. 3494,
pp. 440–456. Springer, Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/11426639_26
6. Boneh, D., Canetti, R., Halevi, S., Katz, J.: Chosen-ciphertext security from
identity-based encryption. SIAM J. Comput. 36(5), 1301–1328 (2007)
7. Boneh, D., Franklin, M.: Identity-based encryption from the Weil pairing. In: Kil-
ian, J. (ed.) CRYPTO 2001. LNCS, vol. 2139, pp. 213–229. Springer, Heidelberg
(2001). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44647-8_13
8. Canetti, R., Halevi, S., Katz, J.: A forward-secure public-key encryption scheme.
In: Biham, E. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2003. LNCS, vol. 2656, pp. 255–271. Springer,
Heidelberg (2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-39200-9_16

32
P. Rösler et al.
9. Canetti, R., Halevi, S., Katz, J.: Chosen-ciphertext security from identity-based
encryption. In: Cachin, C., Camenisch, J.L. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2004. LNCS,
vol. 3027, pp. 207–222. Springer, Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-540-24676-3_13
10. Cash, D., Hofheinz, D., Kiltz, E., Peikert, C.: Bonsai trees, or how to delegate a
lattice basis. In: Gilbert, H. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2010. LNCS, vol. 6110, pp. 523–
552. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-13190-5_27
11. Cini, V., Ramacher, S., Slamanig, D., Striecks, C.: CCA-secure (Puncturable)
KEMs from encryption with non-negligible decryption errors. In: Moriai, S., Wang,
H. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2020. LNCS, vol. 12491, pp. 159–190. Springer, Cham
(2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-64837-4_6
12. Derler, D., Jager, T., Slamanig, D., Striecks, C.: Bloom ﬁlter encryption and appli-
cations to eﬃcient forward-secret 0-RTT key exchange. In: Nielsen, J.B., Rijmen,
V. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2018. LNCS, vol. 10822, pp. 425–455. Springer, Cham
(2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-78372-7_14
13. Dodis, Y., Fazio, N.: Public key broadcast encryption for stateless receivers. In:
Feigenbaum, J. (ed.) ACM CCS-9 DRM Workshop 2002 (2002)
14. Dodis, Y., Karthikeyan, H., Wichs, D.: Updatable public key encryption in the
standard model. In: Nissim, K., Waters, B. (eds.) TCC 2021. LNCS, vol. 13044, pp.
254–285. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-90456-2_9
15. Dodis, Y., Katz, J., Xu, S., Yung, M.: Key-insulated public key cryptosystems. In:
Knudsen, L.R. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2002. LNCS, vol. 2332, pp. 65–82. Springer,
Heidelberg (2002). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-46035-7_5
16. Döttling, N., Garg, S.: From selective IBE to full IBE and selective HIBE. In:
Kalai, Y., Reyzin, L. (eds.) TCC 2017. LNCS, vol. 10677, pp. 372–408. Springer,
Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-70500-2_13
17. Döttling, N., Garg, S.: Identity-based encryption from the Diﬃe-Hellman assump-
tion. In: Katz, J., Shacham, H. (eds.) CRYPTO 2017. LNCS, vol. 10401, pp. 537–
569. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-63688-7_18
18. Durak, F.B., Vaudenay, S.: Bidirectional asynchronous ratcheted key agreement
with linear complexity. In: Attrapadung, N., Yagi, T. (eds.) IWSEC 2019. LNCS,
vol. 11689, pp. 343–362. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-26834-3_20
19. Fujisaki, E., Okamoto, T.: Secure integration of asymmetric and symmetric encryp-
tion schemes. In: Wiener, M. (ed.) CRYPTO 1999. LNCS, vol. 1666, pp. 537–554.
Springer, Heidelberg (1999). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48405-1_34
20. Gentry, C.: Practical identity-based encryption without random oracles. In: Vau-
denay, S. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2006. LNCS, vol. 4004, pp. 445–464. Springer, Hei-
delberg (2006). https://doi.org/10.1007/11761679_27
21. Gentry, C., Silverberg, A.: Hierarchical ID-based cryptography. In: Zheng, Y. (ed.)
ASIACRYPT 2002. LNCS, vol. 2501, pp. 548–566. Springer, Heidelberg (2002).
https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-36178-2_34
22. Giacon, F., Heuer, F., Poettering, B.: KEM combiners. In: Abdalla, M., Dahab, R.
(eds.) PKC 2018. LNCS, vol. 10769, pp. 190–218. Springer, Cham (2018). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-76578-5_7
23. Goldwasser, S., Lewko, A., Wilson, D.A.: Bounded-collusion IBE from key homo-
morphism. In: Cramer, R. (ed.) TCC 2012. LNCS, vol. 7194, pp. 564–581. Springer,
Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-28914-9_32
24. Gong, J., Cao, Z., Tang, S., Chen, J.: Extended dual system group and shorter
unbounded hierarchical identity based encryption. Des. Codes Cryptogr. 80(3),
525–559 (2016)

Unique-Path Identity Based Encryption with Applications
33
25. Green, M.D., Miers, I.: Forward secure asynchronous messaging from puncturable
encryption. In: 2015 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, pp. 305–320. IEEE
Computer Society Press, May 2015. https://doi.org/10.1109/SP.2015.26
26. Groth, J.: Simulation-sound NIZK proofs for a practical language and constant size
group signatures. In: Lai, X., Chen, K. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2006. LNCS, vol. 4284,
pp. 444–459. Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/10.1007/11935230_29
27. Günther, F., Hale, B., Jager, T., Lauer, S.: 0-RTT key exchange with full for-
ward secrecy. In: Coron, J.-S., Nielsen, J.B. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2017. LNCS, vol.
10212, pp. 519–548. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
56617-7_18
28. Hofheinz, D., Hövelmanns, K., Kiltz, E.: A modular analysis of the Fujisaki-
Okamoto transformation. In: Kalai, Y., Reyzin, L. (eds.) TCC 2017. LNCS, vol.
10677, pp. 341–371. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
70500-2_12
29. Horwitz, J., Lynn, B.: Toward hierarchical identity-based encryption. In: Knudsen,
L.R. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2002. LNCS, vol. 2332, pp. 466–481. Springer, Heidelberg
(2002). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-46035-7_31
30. Jaeger, J., Stepanovs, I.: Optimal channel security against ﬁne-grained state com-
promise: the safety of messaging. In: Shacham, H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.) CRYPTO
2018. LNCS, vol. 10991, pp. 33–62. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-319-96884-1_2
31. Jost, D., Maurer, U., Mularczyk, M.: Eﬃcient ratcheting: almost-optimal guar-
antees for secure messaging. In: Ishai, Y., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2019.
LNCS, vol. 11476, pp. 159–188. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-17653-2_6
32. Jost, D., Maurer, U., Mularczyk, M.: A uniﬁed and composable take on ratcheting.
In: Hofheinz, D., Rosen, A. (eds.) TCC 2019. LNCS, vol. 11892, pp. 180–210.
Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-36033-7_7
33. Katz, J.: Binary tree encryption: constructions and applications. In: Lim, J.-I., Lee,
D.-H. (eds.) ICISC 2003. LNCS, vol. 2971, pp. 1–11. Springer, Heidelberg (2004).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-24691-6_1
34. Langrehr, R., Pan, J.: Unbounded HIBE with tight security. In: Moriai, S., Wang,
H. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2020. LNCS, vol. 12492, pp. 129–159. Springer, Cham
(2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-64834-3_5
35. Lewko, A.: Tools for simulating features of composite order bilinear groups in the
prime order setting. In: Pointcheval, D., Johansson, T. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2012.
LNCS, vol. 7237, pp. 318–335. Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-642-29011-4_20
36. Poettering, B., Rösler, P.: Asynchronous ratcheted key exchange. Cryptology
ePrint Archive, Report 2018/296 (2018). eprint.iacr.org/2018/296
37. Poettering, B., Rösler, P.: Towards bidirectional ratcheted key exchange. In:
Shacham, H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2018. LNCS, vol. 10991, pp. 3–32.
Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-96884-1_1
38. Rösler, P., Slamanig, D., Striecks, C.: Unique-path identity based encryption
with applications to strongly secure messaging. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper
2023/248 (2023). eprint.iacr.org/2023/248
39. Rösler, P., Slamanig, D., Striecks, C.: Unique-path identity based encryption with
applications to strongly secure messaging. In: Hazay, C., Stam, M. (eds.) EURO-
CRYPT 2023, LNCS 14008, pp. 3–34. Springer, Heidelberg (2023)

34
P. Rösler et al.
40. Schnorr, C.P.: Eﬃcient identiﬁcation and signatures for smart cards. In: Brassard,
G. (ed.) CRYPTO 1989. LNCS, vol. 435, pp. 239–252. Springer, New York (1990).
https://doi.org/10.1007/0-387-34805-0_22
41. Shamir, A.: Identity-based cryptosystems and signature schemes. In: Blakley, G.R.,
Chaum, D. (eds.) CRYPTO 1984. LNCS, vol. 196, pp. 47–53. Springer, Heidelberg
(1985). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-39568-7_5
42. Tessaro, S., Wilson, D.A.: Bounded-collusion identity-based encryption from
semantically-secure public-key encryption: generic constructions with short cipher-
texts. In: Krawczyk, H. (ed.) PKC 2014. LNCS, vol. 8383, pp. 257–274. Springer,
Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-54631-0_15

