Universally Composable
Subversion-Resilient Cryptography
Suvradip Chakraborty1, Bernardo Magri2(B), Jesper Buus Nielsen3,
and Daniele Venturi4
1 ETH Zurich, Z¨urich, Switzerland
2 The University of Manchester, Manchester, UK
bernardo.magri@manchester.ac.uk
3 Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark
4 Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Italy
Abstract. Subversion attacks undermine security of cryptographic pro-
tocols by replacing a legitimate honest party’s implementation with one
that leaks information in an undetectable manner. An important lim-
itation of all currently known techniques for designing cryptographic
protocols with security against subversion attacks is that they do not
automatically guarantee security in the realistic setting where a protocol
session may run concurrently with other protocols.
We remedy this situation by providing a foundation of reverse ﬁrewalls
(Mironov and Stephens-Davidowitz, EUROCRYPT’15) in the universal
composability (UC) framework (Canetti, FOCS’01 and J. ACM’20). More
in details, our contributions are threefold:
– We generalize the UC framework to the setting where each party con-
sists of a core (which has secret inputs and is in charge of generating
protocol messages) and a ﬁrewall (which has no secrets and sanitizes
the outgoing/incoming communication from/to the core). Both the
core and the ﬁrewall can be subject to diﬀerent ﬂavors of corruption,
modeling diﬀerent kinds of subversion attacks. For instance, we cap-
ture the setting where a subverted core looks like the honest core
to any eﬃcient test, yet it may leak secret information via covert
channels (which we call specious subversion).
– We show how to sanitize UC commitments and UC coin tossing
against specious subversion, under the DDH assumption.
– We show how to sanitize the classical GMW compiler (Goldreich,
Micali and Wigderson, STOC 1987) for turning MPC with security
in the presence of semi-honest adversaries into MPC with security
in the presence of malicious adversaries. This yields a completeness
theorem for maliciously secure MPC in the presence of specious sub-
version.
S. Chakraborty—Work done while at IST Austria; supported in part by ERC grant
724307.
B. Magri—Work done while at Aarhus University.
D. Venturi—Supported by the grant SPECTRA from Sapienza University of Rome.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
O. Dunkelman and S. Dziembowski (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2022, LNCS 13275, pp. 272–302, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-06944-4_10

Universally Composable Subversion-Resilient Cryptography
273
Additionally, all our sanitized protocols are transparent, in the sense
that communicating with a sanitized core looks indistinguishable from
communicating with an honest core. Thanks to the composition theorem,
our methodology allows, for the ﬁrst time, to design subversion-resilient
protocols by sanitizing diﬀerent sub-components in a modular way.
1
Introduction
Cryptographic schemes are typically analyzed under the assumption that the
machines run by honest parties are fully trusted. Unfortunately, in real life,
there are a number of situations in which this assumption turns out to be
false. In this work, we are concerned with one of these situations, where the
adversary is allowed to subvert the implementation of honest parties in a
stealthy way. By stealthy, we mean that the outputs produced by a subverted
machine still look like honestly computed outputs, yet, the adversary can use
such outputs to completely break security. Prominent examples include back-
doored implementations [15,16,18] and algorithm-substitution (or kleptographic)
attacks [2–4,22,23]. The standardization of the pseudorandom number genera-
tor Dual EC DRBG, as exposed by Snowden, is a real-world instantiation of the
former, while Trojan horses, as in the case of the Chinese hack chip attack, are
real-world instantiations of the latter.
1.1
Subversion-Resilient Cryptography
Motivated by these situations, starting from the late 90s, cryptographers put con-
siderable eﬀort into building cryptographic primitives and protocols that retain
some form of security in the presence of subversion attacks.
Yet, after nearly 30 years of research, all currently known techniques to obtain
subversion resilience share the limitation of only implying standalone security,
i.e. they only guarantee security of a protocol in isolation, but all bets are oﬀ
when such a protocol is used in a larger context in the presence of subversion
attacks. This shortcoming makes the design of subversion-resilient cryptographic
protocols somewhat cumbersome and highly non-modular. For instance, Ate-
niese, Magri, and Venturi [1] show how to build subversion-resilient signatures,
which in turn were used by Dodis, Mironov and Stephens-Davidowitz [17] to
obtain subversion-resilient key agreement protocols, and by Chakraborty, Dziem-
bowski and Nielsen [11] to obtain subversion-resilient broadcast; however, the
security analysis in both [17] and [11] reproves security of the construction in [1]
from scratch. These examples bring the fundamental question:
Can we obtain subversion resistance in a composable security framework?
A positive answer to the above question would dramatically simplify the design of
subversion-resilient protocols, in that one could try to ﬁrst obtain security under
subversion attacks for simpler primitives, and then compose such primitives in
an arbitrary way to obtain protocols for more complex tasks, in a modular way.

274
S. Chakraborty et al.
1.2
Our Contributions
In this work, we give a positive answer to the above question using so-
called cryptographic reverse ﬁrewalls, as introduced by Mironov and Stephens-
Davidowitz [21]. Intuitively, a reverse ﬁrewall is an external party that sits
between an honest party and the network, and whose task is to sanitize the
incoming/outgoing communication of the party it is attached to, in order to
annhilate subliminal channels generated via subversion attacks. The main chal-
lenge is to obtain sanitation while maintaining the correctness of the underlying
protocol, and in a setting where other parties may be completely under control
of the subverter itself.
While previous work showed how to build reverse ﬁrewalls for diﬀerent cryp-
tographic protocols in standalone security frameworks we provide a founda-
tion of reverse ﬁrewalls in the framework of universal composability (UC) of
Canetti [6,7]. More in details, our contributions are threefold:
– We generalize the UC framework to the setting where each party consists of a
core (which has secret inputs and is in charge of generating protocol messages)
and a ﬁrewall (which has no secrets and sanitizes the outgoing/incoming com-
munication from/to the core). Both the core and the ﬁrewall can be subject to
diﬀerent ﬂavors of corruption, modeling diﬀerent kinds of subversion attacks.
For instance, we capture the setting where a subverted core looks like the
honest core to any eﬃcient test, yet it may leak secret information via covert
channels (which we call specious subversion).
– We show how to sanitize UC commitments and UC coin tossing against
specious subversion, under the decisional Diﬃe-Hellman (DDH) assumption
in the common reference string (CRS) model. Our sanitized commitment pro-
tocol is non-interactive, and requires 2λ group elements in order to commit
to a λ-bit string; the CRS is made of 3 group elements.
– We show how to sanitize the classical compiler by Goldreich, Micali and
Wigderson (GMW) [20] for turning multiparty computation (MPC) with
security against semi-honest adversaries into MPC with security against mali-
cious adversaries. This yields a completeness theorem for maliciously secure
MPC in the presence of specious subversion.
Additionally, all our sanitized protocols are transparent, in the sense that commu-
nicating with a sanitized core looks indistinguishable from communicating with
an honest core. Thanks to the composition theorem, our methodology allows,
for the ﬁrst time, to design subversion-resilient protocols by sanitizing diﬀerent
sub-components in a modular way.
1.3
Technical Overview
Below, we provide an overview of the techniques we use in order to achieve our
results, starting with the notion of subversion-resilient UC security, and then
explaining the main ideas behind our reverse ﬁrewalls constructions.

Universally Composable Subversion-Resilient Cryptography
275
Subversion-resilient UC Security. At a high level we model each logical
party Pi of a protocol Π as consisting of two distinct parties of the UC frame-
work, one called the core Ci and one called the ﬁrewall Fi. These parties can
be independently corrupted. For instance, the core can be subverted and the
ﬁrewall honest, or the core could be honest and the ﬁrewall corrupted. The ideal
functionalities F implemented by such a protocol will also recognize two UC
parties per virtual party and can let their behavior depend on the corruption
pattern. For instance, F could specify that if Ci is subverted and Fi honest,
then it behaves as if Pi is honest on F. Or it could say that if Ci is honest and
Fi corrupt, then it behaves as if Pi is honest but might abort on F. This is a
reasonable choice as a corrupt ﬁrewall can always cut Ci oﬀfrom the network
and force an abort. We then simply ask that Π UC-realizes F. By asking that
Π UC-realizes F we exactly capture that if the core is subverted and the ﬁrewall
is honest, this has the same eﬀect as Pi being honest. See Table 1 for all possible
corruption combinations for Ci and Fi at a glance, and how they translate into
corruptions for Pi in an ideal execution with functionality F.
Unfortunately, it turns out that for certain functionalities it is just impossible
to achieve security in the presence of arbitrary subversion attacks. For instance,
a subverted prover in a zero-knowledge proof could simply output an honestly
computed proof or the all-zero string depending on the ﬁrst bit of the witness.
Since the ﬁrewall would not know a valid witness, these kind of subversion attacks
cannot be sanitized. For this reason, following previous work [11,17,19,21], we
focus on classes of subversion attacks for which a subverted core looks like an
honest core to any eﬃcient test, yet it may signal private information to the
subverter via subliminal channels. We call such corruptions specious. We note
that testing reasonably models a scenario in which the core has been built by
an untrusted manufacturer who wants to stay covert, and where the user tests
it against a given speciﬁcation before using it in the wild.
By deﬁning subversion resilience in a black-box way, via the standard notion
of UC implementation, we also get composition almost for free via the UC com-
position theorem. One complication arises to facilitate modular composition of
protocols. When doing a modular construction of a subversion-resilient protocol,
both the core and the ﬁrewall will be built by modules. For instance, the core
could be built from a core for a commitment scheme and the core for an outer
protocol using the commitment scheme. Each of these cores will come with their
own ﬁrewall: one sanitizes the core of the commitment scheme; the other sani-
tizes the core of the outer protocol. The overall ﬁrewall is composed of these two
ﬁrewalls. It turns out that it is convenient that these two ﬁrewalls can coordi-
nate, as it might be that some of the commitments sent need to have the message
randomized, while others might only have their randomness refreshed. The latter
can be facilitated by giving the ﬁrewall of the commitment scheme a sanitation
interface where it can be instructed by the outer ﬁrewall to do the right sanita-
tion. Note that the protocol implementing the commitment ideal functionality
now additionally needs to implement this sanitation interface.

276
S. Chakraborty et al.
We refer the reader to Sect. 2 for a formal description of our model. Note
that another natural model would have been to have Pi split into three parts
(or tiers), Ci, Ui, and Fi, where: (i) Ui is a user program which gets inputs and
sends messages on the network; (ii) Ci is a core holding cryptographic keys and
implementations of, e.g., signing and encryption algorithms; and (iii) Fi is a
ﬁrewall used by Ui to sanitize messages to and from Ci in order to avoid covert
channels. The above better models a setting where we are only worried that
some part of the computer might be subverted. The generalisation to this case
is straightforward given the methodology we present for the case with no user
program Ui. Since we only look at subversions which are indistinguishable from
honest implementations, having the “unsubvertable” Ui appears to give no extra
power. We therefore opted for the simpler model for clarity. Further discussion
on the three-tier model can be found the full version [12].
Strong sanitation. The main challenge when analyzing subversion security of a
protocol in our framework is that, besides maliciously corrupting a subset of the
parties, the adversary can, e.g., further speciously corrupt the honest parties.
To overcome this challenge, we introduce a simple property of reverse ﬁrewalls
which we refer to as strong sanitation. Intuitively, this property says that no
environment, capable of doing specious corruptions of an honest core in the real
world, can distinguish an execution of the protocol with one where an honest
core is replaced with a so-called incorruptible core (that simply behaves honestly
in case of specious corruption). The latter, of course, requires that the ﬁrewall
of the honest core is honest.
We then prove a general lemma saying that, whenever a ﬁrewall has strong
sanitation, it is enough to prove security in our model without dealing with
specious corruptions of honest parties. This lemma signiﬁcantly simpliﬁes the
security analysis of protocols in our model.
Commitments In Sect. 3, we show how to obtain subversion-resilient UC com-
mitments. First, we specify a sanitizable string commitment functionality FsCOM.
This functionality is basically identical to the standard functionality for UC com-
mitments [8], except that the ﬁrewall is allowed to sanitize the value s that the
core commits to, using a blinding factor r; the eﬀect of this sanitation is that,
when the core opens the commitment, the ideal functionality reveals ˆs = s ⊕r.
Note that this is the sanitation allowed by the sanitation interface. An imple-
mentation will further have to sanitise the randomness of outgoing commitments
to avoid covert channels.
Second, we construct a protocol ΠsCOM that UC realizes FsCOM in the presence
of subversion attacks. Our construction borrows ideas from a recent work by
Canetti, Sarkar and Wang [10], who showed how to construct eﬃcient non-
interactive UC commitments with adaptive security. The protocol, which is in
the CRS model and relies on the standard DDH assumption, roughly works as
follows. The CRS is a tuple of the form (g, h, T1, T2), such that T1 = gx and
T2 = hx′ for x ̸= x′ (i.e., a non-DH tuple). In order to commit to a single

Universally Composable Subversion-Resilient Cryptography
277
bit b, the core of the committer encodes b as a value u ∈{−1, 1} and outputs
B = gα · T u
1 and H = hα · T u
2 , where α is the randomness. The ﬁrewall sanitizes
a pair (B, H) by outputting B = B−1 · gβ and H = H−1 · hβ, where β is chosen
randomly; note that, upon receiving an opening (b, α) from the core, the ﬁrewall
can adjust it by returning (1−b, −α+β). Alternatively, the ﬁrewall can choose to
leave the bit b unchanged and only refresh the randomness of the commitment;
this is achieved by letting B = B · gβ and H = H · hβ; in this case, the opening
is adjusted to (b, α + β). In the security proof, we distinguish two cases:
– In case the committer is maliciously corrupt, the simulator sets the CRS as
in the real world but additionally knows the discrete log t of h to the base
g. Such a trapdoor allows the simulator to extract the bit b corresponding to
the malicious committer by checking whether H/T2 = (B/T1)t (in which case
b = 1) or H · T2 = (B · T1)t (in which case b = 0). If none of the conditions
hold, no opening exists.
– In case the committer is honest, the simulator sets the CRS as a DH-tuple.
Namely, now T1 = gx and T2 = hx for some x known to the simulator. The
latter allows the simulator to fake the commitment as B = gα and H = hα,
and later adjust the opening to any given u ∈{−1, 1} (and thus b ∈{0, 1})
by letting α′ = α −u · x.
The above ideas essentially allow to build a simulator for the case of two parties,
where one is maliciously corrupt and the other one has an honest core and a semi-
honest ﬁrewall. These ideas can be generalized to n parties (where up to n −1
parties are maliciously corrupt, while the remaining party has an honest core
and a semi-honest ﬁrewall) using an independent CRS for each pair of parties.
Finally, we show that the ﬁrewall in our protocol is strongly sanitizing and thus
all possible corruption cases reduce to the previous case. In particular, strong
sanitation holds true because a specious core must produce a pair (B, H) of the
form B = gα ·T ˜u
1 and H = hα ·T ˜u
2 for some ˜u ∈{−1, 1} (and thus ˜b ∈{0, 1}), as
otherwise a tester could distinguish it from an honest core by asking it to open
the commitment; given such a well-formed commitment, the ﬁrewall perfectly
refreshes its randomness (and eventually blinds the message).
As we show in Sect. 3, the above construction can be extended to the case
where the input to the commitment is a λ-bit string by committing to each bit
individually; the same CRS can be reused across all of the commitments.
Coin Tossing. Next, in Sect. 4, we show a simple protocol that UC realizes the
standard coin tossing functionality FTOSS in the presence of subversion attacks.
Recall that the ideal functionality FTOSS samples a uniformly random string s ∈
{0, 1}λ and sends it to the adversary, which can then decide which honest party
gets s (i.e., the coin toss output).
Our construction is a slight variant of the classical coin tossing protocol by
Blum [5]; the protocol is in the FsCOM-hybrid model, and roughly works as follows.
The core of each party commits to a random string si ∈{0, 1}λ through the ideal
functionality FsCOM. Then, the ﬁrewall of the coin toss instructs the ﬁrewall of

278
S. Chakraborty et al.
the commitment to blind si using a random blinding factor ri ∈{0, 1}λ which is
revealed to the core. At this point, each (willing) party opens the commitment,
which translates into FsCOM revealing ˆsj = sj ⊕rj, and each party ﬁnally outputs
s = si ⊕ri ⊕
j̸=i ˆsj.
In the security proof, the simulator can fake the string si of an honest party so
that it matches the output of the coin tossing s (received from FTOSS), the strings
sj received from the adversary (on behalf of a malicious core), and the blinding
factor ri received from the adversary (on behalf of a semi-honest ﬁrewall). This
essentially allows to build a simulator for the case where up to n −1 parties are
maliciously corrupt, while the remaining party has an honest core and a semi-
honest ﬁrewall. Finally, we show that the ﬁrewall in our protocol is strongly
sanitizing and thus all possible corruption cases reduce to the previous case.
Strong sanitation here holds because any string si chosen by a specious core
is mapped to a uniformly random string ˆsi via the sanitation interface of the
functionality FsCOM.
Completeness Theorem. Finally, in Sect. 5, we show how to sanitize the
GMW compiler, which yields a completeness theorem for UC subversion-resilient
MPC. Recall that in the classical GMW compiler one starts with an MPC pro-
tocol Π tolerating t < n semi-honest corruptions and transforms it into an
MPC protocol tolerating t malicious corruptions as follows. First, the players
run an augmented coin-tossing protocol, where each party receives a uniformly
distributed string (to be used as its random tape) and the other parties receive
a commitment to that string. Second, each party commits to its own input and
proves in zero knowledge that every step of the protocol Π is executed correctly
and consistently with the random tape and input each party is committed to.
As observed by Canetti, Lindell, Ostrovsky and Sahai [9], the above compila-
tion strategy cannot immediately be translated in the UC setting, as the receiver
of a UC commitment obtains no information about the value that was commit-
ted to. Hence, the parties cannot prove in zero knowledge statements relative
to their input/randomness commitment. This issue is resolved by introducing
a commit-and-prove ideal functionality, which essentially allows each party to
commit to a witness and later prove arbitrary NP statements relative to the
committed witness.
In order to sanitize the GMW compiler in the presence of subversion attacks,
we follow a similar approach. Namely, we ﬁrst introduce a sanitazable commit-
and-prove functionality FC&P. This functionality is very similar in spirit to the
standard commit-and-prove functionality, except that the ﬁrewall can decide
to blind the witness that the core commits to. In the full version [12], we
show how to realize the sanitizable commit-and-prove functionality in the CRS
model from the DDH assumption, using re-randomizable non-interactive zero-
knowledge arguments for all of NP [13]. In fact, there we exhibit a much more
general construction that can be instantiated from any so-called malleable mixed
commitment, a new notion that we introduce and that serves as a suitable
abstraction of our DDH-based construction from Sect. 3.

Universally Composable Subversion-Resilient Cryptography
279
In the actual protocol, we use both the coin tossing functionality FTOSS and
the sanitizable commit-and-prove functionality FC&P to determine the random
tape of each party as follows. Each core commits to a random string si via FC&P;
the corresponding ﬁrewall blinds si with a random ri that is revealed to the
core. Thus, the players use FTOSS to generate public randomness s∗
i that can be
used to derive the random tape of party Pi as s∗
i ⊕(si ⊕ri). Moreover each core
commits to its own input xi, which however is not blinded by the ﬁrewall. The
above allows each party, during the protocol execution, to prove via FC&P that
each message has been computed correctly and consistently with the committed
input and randomness derived from the public random string s∗
i received from
FTOSS.
The security analysis follows closely the one in [9], except that in our case we
show that any adversary corrupting up to t parties maliciously, and the ﬁrewall
of the remaining honest parties semi-honestly, can be reduced to a semi-honest
adversary attacking Π. Since we additionally show that our ﬁrewall is strongly
sanitizing, which essentially comes from the ideal sanitation interface oﬀered by
FC&P, all possible corruption cases reduce to the previous case.
2
A UC Model of Reverse Firewalls
In this section we propose a foundation of reverse ﬁrewalls in the UC model [7].
We use the UC framework for concreteness as it is the de facto standard. How-
ever, we keep the description high level and do not depend on very particular
details of the framework. Similar formalizations could be given in other frame-
works deﬁning security via comparison to ideal functionalities, as long as these
ideal functionalities are corruption aware: they know which parties are corrupted
and their behavior can depend on it.
2.1
Quick and Dirty Recap of UC
A protocol Π consists of code for each of the parties P1, . . . , Pn. The parties
can in turn make calls to ideal functionalities G. More precisely, the code of
the program is a single machine. As part of its input, it gets a party identiﬁer
pid which tells the code which party it should be running the code for. This
allows more ﬂexibility for dynamic sets of parties. Below, we will only consider
programs with a ﬁxed number of parties. We are therefore tacitly identifying n
parties identiﬁers pid1, . . . , pidn with the n parties P1, . . . , Pn, i.e., Pi = pidi. We
prefer the notation Pi for purely idiomatic reasons.
A party Pi can call an ideal functionality. To do so it will specify which
G to call (technically it writes down the code of G and a session identiﬁer sid
distinguishing diﬀerent calls), along with an input x. Then, (sid, pid, x) is given
to G. If G does not exists, then it is created from its code.
There is an adversary A which attacks the protocol. It can corrupt parties via
special corruption commands. How parties react to these corruptions is ﬂexible;
the parties can in principle be programmed to react in any eﬃcient way. As an

280
S. Chakraborty et al.
example, in response to input active-corrupt, we might say that the party in
the future will output all its inputs to the adversary, and that it will let the
adversary specify what messages the party should send. The adversary can also
control ideal functionalities, if the ideal functionalities expose an interface for
that. It might for instance be allowed to inﬂuence at what time messages are
delivered on an ideal functionality of point-to-point message transmission.
There is also an environment E which gives inputs to the parties and sees
their outputs. The environment can talk freely to the adversary. A real world
execution ExecΠ,A,E is driven by the environment which can activate parties or
ideal functionalities. The parties and ideal functionalities can also activate each
other. The details of activation are not essential here, and can be found in [7].
The protocol Π is meant to implement an ideal functionality F. This is for-
mulated by considering a run of F with dummy parties which just forward mes-
sages between E and F. In addition, there is an adversary S, called the simulator,
which can interact with F on the adversarial interface, and which can interact
freely with E as an adversary can. The simulation is the process ExecF,S,E,
where we do not specify the dummy protocol but use F for the dummy proto-
col composed with F. We say that Π UC-realizes F if there exists an eﬃcient
simulator which makes the simulation look like the real world execution to any
eﬃcient environment:
∃S∀E : ExecΠ,A,E ≈ExecF,S,E,
where A is the dummy adversary (that simply acts as a proxy for the envi-
ronment), and where the quantiﬁcations are over poly-time interactive Turing
machines.
Consider a protocol Π that realizes an ideal functionality F in a setting where
parties can communicate as usual, and additionally make calls to an unbounded
number of copies of some other ideal functionality G. (This model is called the G-
hybrid model.) Furthermore, let Γ be a protocol that UC-realizes G as sketched
above, and let ΠG→Γ be the composed protocol that is identical to Π, with
the exception that each interaction with the ideal functionality G is replaced
with a call to (or an activation of) an appropriate instance of the protocol Γ.
Similarly, any output produced by the protocol Γ is treated as a value provided
by the functionality G. The composition theorem states that in such a case, Π
and ΠG→Γ have essentially the same input/output behavior. Namely, Γ behaves
just like the ideal functionality G even when composed with an arbitrary protocol
Π. A special case of this theorem states that if Π UC-realizes F in the G-hybrid
model, then ΠG→Γ UC-realizes F.
2.2
Modeling Reverse Firewalls
To model reverse ﬁrewalls, we will model each party Pi as two separate parties
in the UC model: the core Ci and the ﬁrewall Fi. To be able to get composability
for our framework via UC composition, we model them as separate parties each
with their own party identiﬁer (pid, F) and (pid, C). We use pid to denote the two

Universally Composable Subversion-Resilient Cryptography
281
Fig. 1. Implementing a normal functionality F using a sanitizable hybrid functionality
G and a sanitizing protocol Π = (C, F). Cores and ﬁrewalls talk to sanitizable function-
alities directly. Cores can additionally talk to the environment to exchange inputs and
outputs. Firewalls only talk to ideal functionalities. We think of ideal functionalities as
sanitizing the communication with the core via the ﬁrewall. This is illustrated in the
ﬁgure by information from the core going to the ﬁrewall, and information to the core
coming via the ﬁrewall. There is no formal requirement to what extent this happens;
it is up to the ideal functionality to decide what type of sanitation is possible, if any.
of them together. Below we write, for simplicity, Pi to denote the full party, Ci
to denote the core, and Fi to denote the ﬁrewall. Being two separate parties, the
core and the ﬁrewall cannot talk directly. It will be up to the ideal functionality
G used for communication to pass communication with the core through the
corresponding ﬁrewall before acting on the communication. It might be that
when G gets a message from Ci it will output this message to Fi and allow
Fi to change the message, possibly under some restrictions. We say that Fi
sanitizes the communication, and we call the interface connecting Fi for G the
sanitation interface of G. We call such an ideal functionality a “sanitizable” ideal
functionality.
Consider a party (Ci, Fi) with core Ci and ﬁrewall Fi connected to a sanitizing
ideal functionality G. The idea is that the ﬁrewall gets to sanitize all communica-
tion of the core Ci. The UC model seemingly allows a loophole, as the core could
make a call to some other ideal functionality H instead of talking to G. As we
discuss later, this behavior is ruled out if Ci is specious, so we will not explicitly
disallow it. If our model is later extended to allow stronger (non-specious) types
of subversion, then one would probably have to explicitly forbid Ci to use this
loophole.
When using a sanitizable ideal functionality, it is convenient to be able to
distinguish the interface of the ideal functionality from the parties using the
interface. We call the interface of G to which the core of Pi is connected the
input-output interface, IO. We call the party connected to it Ci. We call the
interface of G to which the ﬁrewall of Pi is connected the sanitation interface, S.
We call the party connected to it Fi. This is illustrated in Fig. 1.
2.3
Specious Corruptions
A major motivation for studying subversion resilience is to construct ﬁrewalls
which ensure that security is preserved even if the core is subverted. In this
section, we describe and discuss how we model subversion in the UC framework.

282
S. Chakraborty et al.
In a nutshell, we let the adversary replace the code of the core. Clearly, if
the core is arbitrarily corrupted, it is impossible to guarantee any security. We
therefore have to put restrictions on the code used to subvert the core. One
can consider diﬀerent types of subversions. In this work, we will consider a par-
ticularly “benign” subversion, where the subverted core looks indistinguishable
from the honest core to any eﬃcient test. This is a particularly strong version of
what has been called “functionality preservation” in other works [11,17,19,21].
As there are slightly diverting uses of this term we will coin a new one to avoid
confusion.
The central idea behind our notion is that we consider corruptions where
a core Ci has been replaced by another implementation Ci which cannot be
distinguished from Ci by black-box access to Ci or Ci. We use the term specious
for such corruptions, as they superﬁcially appear to be honest, but might not
be.
More in details, we deﬁne specious corruptions via testing. Imagine a test T
which is given non-rewinding black-box access to either Ci or Ci, and that tries
to guess which one it interacted with. We say that a subversion is specious if it
survives all eﬃcient tests. This is a very strong notion. One way to motivate this
notion could be that Ci might be built by an untrusted entity, but the buyer of
Ci can test it up against a speciﬁcation. If the untrusted entity wants to be sure
to remain covert, it would have to do a subversion that survives all tests. We
assume that the test does not have access to the random choices made by Ci. This
makes the model applicable also to the case where Ci is a blackbox or uses an
internal physical process to make random choices. We will allow the entity doing
the subversion to have some auxiliary information about the subversion and its
use of randomness. This will, for instance, allow the subversion to communicate
with the subverter in a way that cannot be detected by any test (e.g., using a
secret message acting as a trigger).
For a machine T and an interactive machine C, we use TC to denote that T
has non-rewinding black-box access to C. If during the run of TC the machine
C requests a random bit, then a uniformly random bit is sampled and given to
C. Such randomness is not shown to T. We deﬁne the following game for an
eﬃciently sampleable distribution D and a test T.
– Sample (C, a) ←D, where a is an auxiliary string.
– Sample a uniformly random bit b ∈{0, 1}:
• If b = 0, then run TC to get a guess g ∈{0, 1}.
• If b = 1, then run TC to get a guess g ∈{0, 1}.
– Output c = b ⊕g.
Let TestD,T denote the probability that c = 0, i.e., the probability that the
guess at b is correct.
Deﬁnition 1 (Specious subversion).
We say that D is computationally
specious if for all PPT tests T it holds that TestD,T −1/2 is negligible.

Universally Composable Subversion-Resilient Cryptography
283
We return to the discussion of the loophole for specious cores of creating
other ideal functionalities H that are not sanitizing. Note that if a core creates
an ideal functionality that it is not supposed to contact, then this can be seen
by testing. Therefore, such a core is not considered specious. Hence, the notion
of specious closes the loophole.
The notion of specious is strong, as it requires that no test T can detect the
subversion. At ﬁrst glance it might even look too strong, as it essentially implies
that the subversion is correct. However, as we show next, a specious subversion
can still signal to the outside in an undetectable manner. To formalize this
notion, we deﬁne the following game for an eﬃciently sampleable distribution
D, an adversary A and a decoder Z.
– Sample (C, a) ←D, where a is an auxiliary string.
– Sample a uniformly random bit b ∈{0, 1}:
• If b = 0, then run AC to get a signal s ∈{0, 1}∗.
• If b = 1, then run AC to get a signal s ∈{0, 1}∗.
– Run Z(a, s) to get a guess g ∈{0, 1}.
– Output c = b ⊕g.
Let SignalD,A,Z denote the probability that c = 0, i.e., the probability that the
guess at b is correct.
Deﬁnition 2 (Signaling). We say that D is computationally signalling if there
exists a PPT adversary A and a PPT decoder Z such that SignalD,A,Z −1/2 is
non-negligible.
Lemma 1. There exist a machine C, and an eﬃciently sampleable distribution
D, such that D is both computationally specious and signaling.
Proof (Proof sketch). Consider a machine C that when queried outputs a fresh
uniformly random y ∈{0, 1}λ. Let Φ = {φκ : {0, 1}λ →{0, 1}λ}κ∈{0,1}λ be
a family of pseudorandom permutations. Consider the subversion C of C that
hardcodes a key κ ∈{0, 1}λ and: (i) when initialised samples a uniformly ran-
dom counter x ∈{0, 1}λ; (ii) when queried, it returns φκ(x) and increments x.
Moreover, let D be the distribution that picks κ ∈{0, 1}λ at random and outputs
(C, a = κ).
Note that the distribution D is specious, as the key κ is sampled at random
after T has been quantiﬁed. In particular, the outputs of φκ are indistinguishable
from random to T. The distribution D is also clearly signaling, as it can be seen
by taking the adversary A that queries its target oracle twice and sends the
outputs y1 and y2 as a signal to the decoder. The decoder Z, given a = κ,
computes xi = φ−1
κ (yi) (for i = 1, 2) and outputs 0 if and only if x2 = x1 + 1.
We can also deﬁne what it means for a set of subversions to be specious.
Deﬁnition 3 (Specious subversions). Given an eﬃciently sampleable distri-
bution D with outputs of the form (C1, . . . , Cm, a) ←D, we let Di be the distribu-
tion sampling (C1, . . . , Cm, a) ←D and then outputting (Ci, (i, a)). We say that
D is specious if each Di is specious.

284
S. Chakraborty et al.
We now deﬁne the notion of a specious corruption. In this paper, we assume
that all specious corruptions are static.
Deﬁnition 4 (Specious corruption). We say that a party accepts specious
corruptions if, whenever it gets input (Specious, C) from the adversary, it
replaces its code by C. If the input (Specious, C) is not the ﬁrst one received by
the party, then it ignores it. We say that an environment E prepares specious cor-
ruptions if it operates as follows. First, it writes (Specious, D) on a special tape,
where D is specious. Then, it samples (C1, . . . , Cm, a) ←D and writes this on
the special tape too. Finally, it inputs (Specious, C1, . . . , Cm) to the adversary.
The above has to be done on the ﬁrst activation, before any other communication
with protocols or the adversary. We call this a specious environment.
In case of emulation with respect to the dummy adversary, we further require
that if the environment instructs the dummy adversary to input (Specious, C)
to a party, then C is from the list in (Specious, C1, . . . , Cm). We say that an
adversary interacting with a specious environment does specious corruptions if
whenever the adversary inputs (Specious, C) to a party, then C is from the list
(Specious, C1, . . . , Cm) received from the specious environment. We call such an
adversary specious. In particular, an adversary which never inputs (Specious, C)
to any party is specious. We also call an environment specious if it does not write
(Specious, D) on a special tape as the ﬁrst thing, but in this case we require that
it does not input anything of the form (Specious, C1, . . . , Cm) to the adversary,
and that it never instructs the dummy adversary to input (Specious, C) to any
party.
In addition we require that specious environments and adversaries only do
static corruptions and that all corruptions are of the form.
– Core Malicious and ﬁrewall Malicious.
– Core Honest and ﬁrewall SemiHonest.
– Core Specious and ﬁrewall Honest.
– Core Honest and ﬁrewall Malicious.
We assume that all cores accept specious corruptions, and no other parties accept
specious corruptions.
We add a few comments to the deﬁnition. First, let us explain why we only
require security for the above four corruption patterns. Of all the corruption
patterns shown in Table 1 giving rise to a Malicious party, the one with core
Malicious and ﬁrewall Malicious gives the adversary strictly more power than
any of the other ones, so we only ask for simulation of that case. Similarly, of
the 3 corruption patterns giving rise to an Honest party, the ones with the core
Honest and Specious and the ﬁrewall SemiHonest and Honest respectively
are diﬀerent, as neither gives powers to the adversary which are a subset of the
other, so we ask for simulation of both. The remaining case of Honest core and
Honest ﬁrewall we can drop, as it is a special case of the Honest core and
SemiHonest ﬁrewall. The only corruption pattern giving rise to an Isolate

Universally Composable Subversion-Resilient Cryptography
285
Table 1. Corruption patterns for cores and ﬁrewalls in our model, and their translation
in the ideal world. The highlighted rows are the cases that one needs to consider when
proving security using our framework.
Core C
Firewall F
Party P in F
Honest
Honest
Honest
Honest
SemiHonest
Honest
Specious
Honest
Honest
Honest
Malicious
Isolate
Specious
SemiHonest
Malicious
Specious
Malicious
Malicious
Malicious
Honest
Malicious
Malicious SemiHonest
Malicious
Malicious
Malicious
Malicious
party is when the core is Honest and the ﬁrewall is Malicious; we therefore
ask to simulate this case too.
Second, note that it might look odd that we ask the environment to sample
the subversion Ci. Could we not just ask that, when it inputs (Specious, Ci)
to a core, then Ci is specious? It turns out that this would give a trivial notion
of specious corruption. Recall that in the notion of specious, we quantify over
all tests. If we ﬁrst ﬁx C, and then quantify over all tests when deﬁning that it
is specious, then the universal quantiﬁer could be used to guess random values
shared between C and the adversary, like the key κ used in Lemma 1 (demon-
strating that a specious subversion can still be signaling). Therefore, a single C
specious subversion cannot be signalling. Hence, asking for a speciﬁc subversion
to be specious would make the notion of specious corruption trivial. By instead
asking that a distribution D is specious, we can allow C and the adversary to
sample joint randomness (like a secret key κ) after the test T has already been
quantiﬁed. Namely, recall that in the test game we ﬁrst ﬁx a T, and only then
do we sample D. This allows specious corruptions which can still signal to the
adversary, as demonstrated above. The reason why we ask the environment to
sample D and not the adversary has to do with UC composition, which we return
to later.
2.4
Sanitizing Protocols Implementing Regular Ideal Functionalities
For illustration, we ﬁrst describe how to implement a regular ideal functionality
given a sanitizing ideal functionality. Later, we cover the case of implementing
a sanitizing ideal functionality given a sanitizing ideal functionality, see Fig. 1.
Consider a sanitizing protocol Π, using a sanitizable ideal functionality G,
that implements a regular ideal functionality F with n parties P1, . . . , Pn. By
regular, we mean that F itself does not have a sanitation interface. Note that it

286
S. Chakraborty et al.
makes perfect sense for a sanitizing protocol Π, using a sanitizable ideal func-
tionality G, to implement a regular ideal functionality. The ﬁrewall is an aspect
of the implementation Π and the sanitizable hybrid ideal functionality G. In
particular, this aspect could be completely hidden by the implementation of Π.
However, typically the behavior when the ﬁrewall is honest and corrupted is
not the same. A corrupted ﬁrewall can isolate the core by not doing its job.
We therefore call a party Pi where Ci is honest and Fi is corrupt an “isolated”
party. We insist that if Ci is specious and Fi is honest, then it is as if Pi is honest.
Hence, F should behave as if Pi is honest. We would therefore like the behavior
of F to depend only on whether Pi is honest, isolated, or corrupt. To add some
structure to this, we introduce the notion of a wrapped ideal functionality and
a wrapper.
A wrapped ideal functionality F should only talk to parties Pi. The wrapper
Wrap will talk to a core Ci and a ﬁrewall Fi. The wrapper runs F internally, and
we write Wrap(F). The inputs to and from Ci on Wrap(F) are forwarded to the
interface for Pi on F. The only job of Wrap is to introduce the same parties as in
the protocol and translate corruptions of Ci and Fi into corruptions on Pi. We
say that parties Pi in an ideal execution with F can be Honest, Malicious or
Isolate. The wrapped ideal functionality Wrap(F) translates corruptions using
the following standard corruption translation table.
Honest: If Ci is Honest and Fi Honest, let Pi be Honest on F.
Malicious: If Ci is Malicious, corrupt Pi as Malicious on F.
Isolated: If Ci is Honest and Fi is Malicious, corrupt Pi as Isolate on F.
Sanitation: If Ci is Specious and Fi is Honest, let Pi be Honest on F.
No Secrets: If Ci is Honest and Fi is SemiHonest, let Pi be Honest on F.
We discuss the ﬁve cases next. The Honest and Malicious cases are
straightforward; if both the core and the ﬁrewall are honest, then treat Pi as
an honest party on F. Similarly, if the core is malicious, then treat Pi as a mali-
cious party on F. The Isolated case corresponds to the situation where the core
is honest and the ﬁrewall is corrupted, and thus the ﬁrewall is isolating the core
from the network. This will typically correspond to a corrupted party. However,
in some cases, some partial security might be obtainable, like the inputs of the
core being kept secret. We therefore allow an Isolate corruption as an explicit
type of corruption. The standard behavior of F on an Isolate corruption is to
do a Malicious corruption of Pi in F.
The Sanitation case essentially says that the job of the ﬁrewall is to turn
a specious core into an honest core. This, in particular, means that the ﬁrewall
should remove any signaling. We add the No Secrets case to avoid trivial solu-
tions where the ﬁrewall is keeping, e.g., secret keys used in the protocol. We
want secret keys to reside in the core, and that ﬁrewalls only sanitize communi-
cation of the core. We also do not want that the core just hands the inputs to
the ﬁrewall and lets it run the protocol. A simple way to model this is to require
that the protocol should tolerate a semi-honest corruption of the ﬁrewall when
the core is honest. We do not require that we can tolerate a specious core and a

Universally Composable Subversion-Resilient Cryptography
287
semi-honest ﬁrewall. Removing signaling from a core will typically require ran-
domizing some of the communication. For this, the ﬁrewall needs to be able to
make secret random choices. Note that, with this modeling, a core and a ﬁrewall
can be seen as a two-party implementation of the honest party, where one can
tolerate either a specious corruption of the core or a semi-honest corruption of
the ﬁrewall.
Deﬁnition 5 (Wrapped subversion-resilient UC security). Let F be an
ideal functionality for n parties P1, . . . , Pn. Let Π be a sanitizing protocol with
n cores C1, . . . , Cn and n ﬁrewalls F1, . . . , Fn. Let G be a sanitizable ideal func-
tionality which can be used by Π as in Fig. 1. We say that Π wsrUC-realizes
F in the G-hybrid model if Π UC-realizes Wrap(F) in the G-hybrid model with
the restriction that we only quantify over specious environments and specious
adversaries.
The typical behavior of a sanitizing ideal functionality is that, when it
receives a message from the core, it will output the received message to the
ﬁrewall, or output some partial information about the message to the ﬁrewall.
Later, it will receive some new message or sanitation instruction from the ﬁrewall.
Given this, it constructs the actual information to pass to the core functionality
of G. This might later end up at a ﬁrewall of another party, and after sanita-
tion end up at the core of that party. The latter is illustrated in Fig. 1, and an
example is given below. Note that this is not a formal requirement, but just a
description of idiomatic use of sanitation to give an intuition on the use of the
model.
To illustrate the use of sanitizable ideal functionalities, we specify an ideal
functionality FSAT for sanitizable authenticated communication. The communi-
cation between cores goes via the ﬁrewall which might change the messages.
Note that ﬁrewalls can be sure which other ﬁrewall they talk to, but corrupted
ﬁrewalls can lie to their local core about who sent a message. In fact, they can
pretend a message arrived out of the blue. We also equip FSAT with the possibility
for distributing setup, as this is needed in some of our protocols. We assume a
setup generator Setup which samples the setup and gives each party their corre-
sponding value. The ﬁrewalls also get a value. This, e.g., allows to assume that
the ﬁrewalls know a CRS. Since we do not want ﬁrewalls to keep secrets, we leak
their setup values to the adversary. This would not be a problem if the setup
values is a CRS.
Functionality FSAT
– Initially sample ((v1, w1), . . . , (vn, wn)) ←Setup() and output vi on IOi and wi
on Si. Leak wi to the adversary.
– On input (Send, a, Pj) on IOi, output (Send, a, Pj) on Si. To keep the descrip-
tion simple we assume honest parties sends the same a at most once. Adding
fresh message identiﬁers can be used for this in an implementation.

288
S. Chakraborty et al.
– On input (Send, b, Pk) on Si, leak (Send, Pi, b, Pk) to the adversary and store
(Send, Pi, b, Pk).
– On
input
(Deliver, (Send, Pi, b, Pk))
from
the
adversary,
where
(Send, Pi, b, Pk) is stored, delete this tuple and output (Receive, Pi, b)
on Sk.
– On input (Receive, Pm, c) on Sk, output (Receive, Pm, c) on IOi.
Fig. 2. Implementing F via protocol Π = (CF, FF) using G.
Remark 1 (on FSAT). We note that all protocols in this work, even if not explicitly
stated, are described in the FSAT-hybrid model. Moreover, whenever we say that
the core sends a message to the ﬁrewall (or vice-versa) we actually mean that
they communicate using FSAT.
2.5
General Case
We now turn our attention to implementing sanitizable ideal functionalities.
When a protocol Π implements a sanitizable ideal functionality, we call Π a
sanitizable protocol. Notice the crucial diﬀerence between being a sanitizable
protocol and a sanitizing protocol. A sanitizable protocol Π implements the
sanitization interface Si of F. Whereas a sanitizing protocol Π would have a
ﬁrewall using the sanitization interface Si of G.
When implementing a sanitizable ideal functionality F, the protocol should
implement the sanitation interface SF for F. This means that the protocol will
be of the form Π = (IO, S) where IO = (IO1, . . . , IOn) and S = (S1, . . . , Sn).
Notice that Ci and Fi formally are separate parties, so they cannot talk directly.
It is natural that it is the ﬁrewall of the implementation Π = (IO, S) which
handles this. The ﬁrewall has access to the sanitation interface of G, which it
can use to sanitize Π. This means that F gets what could look like a double role
now. First, it sanitizes Π using SG. Second, it has to implement the sanitation
interface SF of Π (matching that of F). Note, however, that this is in fact the
same job. The sanitation interface SF of Π is used to specify how Π should be
sanitized. It is natural that FF needs to knows this speciﬁcation. It then uses SG
to implement the desired sanitation. This is illustrated in Fig. 2.

Universally Composable Subversion-Resilient Cryptography
289
Fig. 3. The wrapper Wrap(F, L1, . . . , Ln).
When deﬁning security of a protocol implementing a sanitizable ideal func-
tionality, we do not need to use a wrapper as when implementing a normal ideal
functionality, as F already has the same parties as in the protocol. It is however
still convenient to use a wrapper to add some structure to how we specify a
sanitizable ideal functionality. We assume a central part which does the actual
computation, and outer parts which sanitize the inputs from Pi before they are
passed to the central part.
Deﬁnition 6 (Well-formed sanitizing ideal functionality). A well-formed
sanitizing ideal functionality consists of an ideal functionality F, called the cen-
tral part, with an interface Pi for each party. The interface Pi can be Honest,
Malicious, or Isolate. There are also n outer parts L1, . . . , Ln where Li has
an interface IOi for the core and Si for the ﬁrewall. The outer part Li can only
talk to the central part on Pi and the outer parts cannot communicate with each
other. The interface IOi can be Honest, Malicious, or Specious. The inter-
face Si can be Honest, Malicious, or SemiHonest. The corruption of F.IOi
is computed from that of Li.IOi and Li.Si using the standard corruption trans-
lation table (Table 1).
Fig. 4. Implementing G via protocol Γ = (CG, FG) using H.
Deﬁnition 7 (Subversion-resilient UC security). Let F be an ideal func-
tionality for n cores CF
1 , . . . , CF
n and n ﬁrewalls FF
1 , . . . , FF
n , and let Π be a
sanitizing protocol with n cores CF
1 , . . . , CF
n and n ﬁrewalls FF
1 , . . . , FF
n . Let G be
a sanitizable ideal functionality which can be used by Π as in Fig. 2. We say that
Π srUC-realizes F in the G-hybrid model if F can be written as a well-formed
sanitizing ideal functionality, and Π UC-realizes F in the G-hybrid model with
the restriction that we only quantify over specious environments and specious
adversaries.

290
S. Chakraborty et al.
2.6
Composition
We now address composition. In Fig. 2, we illustrate implementing F in the G-
hybrid model. Similarly, in Fig. 4, we implement G given H. In Fig. 5, we illustrate
the eﬀect of composition. We can let Ci = CF
i ◦CG
i and Fi = FF
i ◦FG
i . Then, we
again have a sanitizing protocol ΠG→Γ = (C, F). For composition to work, we
need that specious corruptions respect the composition of a core.
Fig. 5. Implementing F via protocol ΠG→Γ using H.
Deﬁnition 8 (Specious corruption of a composed core). We say that an
adversary does a specious corruption of a composed core Ci = CF
i ◦CG
i if it inputs
(Specious, CF
i , CG
i ), where both CF
i and CG
i are specious. In response CF
i replaces
its code with CF
i , and CG
i replaces its code with CG
i .
Note that one could imagine a specious corruption of a composed core Ci which
could not be written as the composition of specious subversions CF
i and CG
i .
Theorem 1 (srUC Composition). Let F and G be ideal functionalities, and
let Π and Γ be protocols. Assume that all are subroutine respecting and subrou-
tine exposing as deﬁned in [6]. If Π srUC-realizes F, and Γ srUC-realizes G,
then ΠG→Γ srUC-realizes F.
The proof of Theorem 1 appears in the full version [12].
Note that if, e.g., G in the composition is well-formed and therefore wrapped,
then it is the wrapped functionality which is considered at all places. Therefore,
in Fig. 4 the ideal functionality G being implemented will be the wrapped ideal
functionality, and in Fig. 2 the hybrid ideal functionality G being used would
again be the wrapped one. There is no notion of “opening up the wrapping”
during composition. If F is a regular ideal functionality then Wrap(F) can be
written as a well-formed sanitizing ideal functionality. Therefore wsrUC security
relative to F implies srUC security relative to Wrap(F). During composition it
would be Wrap(F) which is used as a hybrid functionality. This is basically the
same as having F under the standard corruption translation.

Universally Composable Subversion-Resilient Cryptography
291
Fig. 6. A core with its matching ﬁrewall or with the identity ﬁrewall.
2.7
Computational Transparency
A central notion in the study of reverse ﬁrewalls is the notion of transparency.
The ﬁrewall is only supposed to modify the behavior of a subverted core. If the
ﬁrewall is attached to an honest core, it must not change the behavior of the
core. We deﬁne transparency in line with [21], namely, an honest core without a
ﬁrewall attached should be indistinguishable from an honest core with a ﬁrewall
attached.
Notice that this does not make sense if the party is implementing a saniti-
zable ideal functionality, like in Fig. 2. Without a ﬁrewall FF
1 , no entity would
implement the interface SF
1 , which would make a core without a ﬁrewall trivially
distinguishishable from a core with a ﬁrewall. Presumably, the interface SF
1 is
present because diﬀerent inputs on this interface will give diﬀerent behaviors.
We therefore only deﬁne transparency of ﬁrewalls implementing a regular ideal
functionality, as in Fig. 1. Note also that if G in Fig. 1 has a complex interac-
tion with Fi, then an execution without Fi might not make sense. Therefore, we
additionally only consider transparency in the FSAT-hybrid model. In this model
we can let Fi be an identity ﬁrewall which does not modify the communication.
This has the desired notion of no ﬁrewall being present.
Deﬁnition 9 (Transparency). Let (Ci, Fi) be a party for the FSAT-hybrid
model. Let Πi be the protocol for the FSAT-hybrid model where party number i
is (Ci, Fi), and all other parties are dummy parties. Let ID be the ﬁrewall which
always outputs any message it receives as input. Let Π′
i be the protocol for the
FSAT-hybrid model where party number i is (Ci, ID), and all other parties are
dummy parties. These two protocols are illustrated in Fig. 6. We say that Fi is
computationally transparent if, for all poly-time environments E which do not
corrupt Ci or Fi/ID, it holds that ExecE,Πi,A ≈ExecE,Π′
i,A, where A is the
dummy adversary.

292
S. Chakraborty et al.
Fig. 7. An honest core with its matching ﬁrewall or a specious core with the same
ﬁrewall.
2.8
Strong Sanitation
Another central notion in the study of reverse ﬁrewalls is the notion that we call
sanitation. Namely, if you hide a specious core behind a ﬁrewall, then it looks
like an honest core behind a ﬁrewall. So far, we have deﬁned this implicitly by
saying that a specious corruption of a core plus an honest ﬁrewall should be
simulatable by having access to an honest party on the ideal functionality being
implemented. This actually does not imply that the network cannot distinguish
between a specious core or an honest core behind the ﬁrewall. It only says that
the eﬀect of a specious core behind a ﬁrewall are not dire enough that you cannot
simulate given an honest party in the ideal world.
In this section, we give a game-based deﬁnition of sanitation capturing the
stronger notion that, behind a ﬁrewall, a specious core looks like an honest core.
Recall that a core Ci is capable of receiving a specious corruption (Specious, C)
from the environment, in which case it replaces its code by C. For such a core,
let C be the incorruptible core which when it receives a specious corruption
(Specious, C) will ignore it and keep running the code of C.
Deﬁnition 10 (Strong sanitation). Let (Ci, Fi) by a party for the G-hybrid
model. Let Ci be the corresponding incorruptible core. Let Πi be the protocol for
the FSAT-hybrid model where party number i is (Ci, Fi), and all other parties are
dummy parties. Let Π′
i be the protocol for the FSAT-hybrid model where party
number i is (Ci, Fi), and all other parties are dummy parties. Note that if the
environment does a (Specious, C) corruption of core number i, then in Πi core
i will run C, whereas in Π′
i it will run Ci. These two outcomes are illustrated in
Fig. 7. We say that Fi is strongly sanitising if, for all poly-time environments E
which do not corrupt Fi, but which are allowed a specious corruption of the core,
it holds that ExecE,Πi,A ≈ExecE,Π′
i,A, where A is the dummy adversary.
It is easy to see that the deﬁnition is equivalent to requiring that, for all
poly-time environments E which do not corrupt Ci or Fi/ID, it holds that
ExecE,Πi,A ≈ExecE,Π′
i,A, where A is the dummy adversary.
Lemma 2. Consider a protocol Π where for all parties (Ci, Fi) it holds that Fi
has strong sanitation. Then it is enough to prove security for these cases:
– Core Malicious and ﬁrewall Malicious.
– Core Honest and ﬁrewall SemiHonest.

Universally Composable Subversion-Resilient Cryptography
293
– Core Honest and ﬁrewall Malicious.
If in addition we assume the standard corruption behavior for Isolate, it is
enough to prove the cases:
– Core Malicious and ﬁrewall Malicious.
– Core Honest and ﬁrewall SemiHonest.
If in addition the protocol Π is for the FSAT-hybrid model and has computational
transparency, then it is enough to prove the case:
– Core Malicious and ﬁrewall Malicious.
– Core Honest and ﬁrewall Honest.
Proof. We prove the ﬁrst claim. Note that relative to Deﬁnition 7 we removed
the case with the core Specious and the ﬁrewall Honest. We show that this
reduces to the case with core Honest and the ﬁrewall Honest. First replace
each Ci by Ci. This cannot be noticed due to strong sanitation. Then notice that
we can replace an environment E doing specious corruption by E′ which just
internally do not pass on (Specious, C) to the core. Namely, it does not matter
if Ci ignores the commands or we let E′ do it. Then, we can replace Ci by Ci as
there are no commands to ignore. So it is enough to prove security for the core
Honest and the ﬁrewall Honest. This case follows from the case with the core
Specious and the ﬁrewall Honest as being honest is a special case of being
specious.
The second claim follows from the fact that under standard corruption behav-
ior for Isolate the party Pi on the ideal functionality is Malicious when the
ﬁrewall is Malicious. So the simulator has the same power when simulating
an honest core and malicious ﬁrewall as when simulating a malicious core and a
malicious ﬁrewall. Then note that being an honest core is a special case of being
a malicious core.
In the last claim, we have to prove that assuming computational transparency
one does not have to prove the case with the core Honest and the ﬁrewall
SemiHonest. One can instead prove the case with the core Honest and the
ﬁrewall Honest. To see this note that, by deﬁnition of transparency, we can
replace the ﬁrewall with the identity ﬁrewall ID. For this ﬁrewall, an Honest
corruption is as powerful as a SemiHonest corruption. This is because the only
eﬀect of a semi-honest corruption of ID is to leak the internal value wi from the
setup and the communication sent via ID. The ideal functionality FSAT already
leaks that information when ID is honest.
3
String Commitment
In this section, we show how to build UC string commitments with security in
the presence of subversion attacks. In particular, after introducing the sanitizable
commitment functionality, we exhibit a non-interactive commitment (with an
associated reverse ﬁrewall) that UC realizes this functionality in the CRS model,
under the DDH assumption.

294
S. Chakraborty et al.
3.1
Sanitizable Commitment Functionality
The sanitazable commitment functionality FsCOM, which is depicted below, is an
extension of the standard functionality for UC commitments [8]. Roughly, FsCOM
allows the core of a party to commit to a λ-bit string si; the ideal functionality
stores si and informs the corresponding ﬁrewall that the core has sent a commit-
ment. Hence, via the sanitation interface, the ﬁrewall of that party is allowed to
forward to the functionality a blinding factor ri ∈{0, 1}λ that is used to blind
si, yielding a sanitized input ˆsi = si ⊕ri. At this point, all other parties are
informed by the functionality that a commitment took place. Finally, each party
is allowed to open the commitment via the functionality, in which case all other
parties learn the sanitized input ˆsi.
Functionality FsCOM
The sanitizable
string commitment functionality

FsCOM
runs with parties
P1, . . . , Pn (each consisting of a core Ci and a ﬁrewall Fi), and an adversary
S. The functionality consists of the following communication interfaces for the
cores and the ﬁrewalls respectively.
Interface IO
– Upon receiving a message (Commit, sid, cid, Ci, si) from Ci, where si ∈{0, 1}λ,
record the tuple (sid, cid, Ci, si) and send the message (Receipt, sid, cid, Ci) to
Fi. Ignore subsequent commands of the form (Commit, sid, cid, Ci, ·).
– Upon receiving a message (Open, sid, cid, Ci) from Ci, proceed as follows: If
the tuple (sid, cid, Ci, ˆsi) is recorded and the message (Blind, sid, cid, Ci, ·) was
sent to 
FsCOM, then send the message (Open, sid, cid, Ci, ˆsi) to all Cj̸=i and S.
Otherwise, do nothing.
Interface S
– Upon receiving a message (Blind, sid, cid, Ci, ri) from Fi, where ri
∈
{0, 1}λ,
proceed
as
follows:
If
the
tuple
(sid, cid, Ci, si, ·)
is
recorded,
then modify the tuple to be (sid, cid, Ci, ˆsi
=
si ⊕ri) and send the
message (Blinded, sid, cid, Ci, ri) to Ci, and (Receipt, sid, cid, Ci) to all
Cj̸=i and S; otherwise do nothing. Ignore future commands of the form
(Blind, sid, cid, Ci, ·).
3.2
Protocol from DDH
Next, we present a protocol that UC-realizes FsCOM in the FSAT-hybrid model.
For simplicity, let us ﬁrst consider the case where there are only two parties.
The CRS in our protocol is a tuple crs = (g, h, T1, T2) satisfying the following
properties:

Universally Composable Subversion-Resilient Cryptography
295
– The element g is a generator of a cyclic group G with prime order q, and
h, T1, T2 ∈G. Moreover, the DDH assumption holds in G.1
– In the real-world protocol, the tuple (g, h, T1, T2) corresponds to a non-DH
tuple. Namely, it should be the case that T1 = gx and T2 = hx′, for x ̸= x′.
– In the security proof, the simulator will set the CRS as (g, h, T1, T2), where
T1 = gx and T2 = hx. By the DDH assumption, this distribution is compu-
tationally indistinguishable from the real-world distribution. In addition, the
simulator will be given the trapdoor (x, t) for the CRS crs = (g, h, T1, T2),
such that h = gt and T1 = gx.
As explained in Sect. 1.3, the above ideas can be generalized to the multiparty
setting by using a diﬀerent CRS for each pair of parties.
Protocol ΠsCOM (Sanitizable UC Commitment Protocol)
The protocol is executed between parties P1, . . . , Pn each consisting of a core Ci
and a ﬁrewall Fi. In what follows, let party Pj = (Cj, Fj) be the committer, and
all other parties Pk̸=j act as veriﬁers.
Public
inputs:
Group
G
with
a
generator
g,
ﬁeld
Zq,
and
crs
=
(crsj,k)j,k∈[n],k̸=j = (gj,k, hj,k, T1,j,k, T2,j,k)j,k∈[n],k̸=j.
Private inputs: The committer (or core) Cj has an input s ∈{0, 1}λ which we
parse as s = (s[1], · · · , s[λ]). We will encode each bit s[i] ∈{0, 1} with a value
u[i] ∈{−1, 1}, so that u[i] = 1 if s[i] = 1 and u[i] = −1 if s[i] = 0. The ﬁrewall
Fj has an input r = (r[1], · · · , r[λ]) ∈{0, 1}λ (i.e., the blinding factor).
Commit phase: For all i ∈[λ], the core Cj samples a random αj,k[i] ←Zq and
computes the values Bj,k[i] = g
αj,k[i]
j,k
·T u[i]
1,j,k and Hj,k[i] = h
αj,k[i]
j,k
·T u[i]
2,j,k. Hence, it
sends cj,k = (cj,k[1], · · · , cj,k[λ]) to the ﬁrewall Fj where cj,k[i] = (Bj,k[i], Hj,k[i]).
For all i ∈[λ], the ﬁrewall Fj picks random βj,k = (βj,k[1], · · · , βj,k[λ]) ∈Zλ
q and
does the following:
– If r[i] = 0, it lets Bj,k[i] = Bj,k[i] · g
βj,k[i]
j,k
and 
Hj,k[i] = Hj,k[i] · h
βj,k[i]
j,k
;
– Else if r[i] = 1, it lets Bj,k[i] = Bj,k[i]−1·g
βj,k[i]
j,k
and 
Hj,k[i] = Hj,k[i]−1·h
βj,k[i]
j,k
.
Hence, Fj sends ˆcj,k = (ˆcj,k[1], · · · , ˆcj,k[λ]) to all other parties Pk̸=j, where
ˆcj,k[i] = ( Bj,k[i], 
Hj,k[i]).
Opening phase: The core Cj sends (s, αj,k) to the ﬁrewall Fj, where s ∈{0, 1}λ
and αj,k ∈Zλ
q . Upon receiving (s, αj,k) from Cj, the ﬁrewall Fj parses s =
(s[1], · · · , s[λ]) and αj,k = (αj,k[1], · · · , αj,k[λ]). Thus, for all i ∈[λ], it does
the following:
– If r[i] = 0, it lets ˆs[i] = s[i] and ˆαj,k[i] = αj,k[i] + βj,k[i];
– Else if r[i] = 1, it lets ˆs[i] = −s[i] and ˆαj,k[i] = −αj,k[i] + βj,k[i].
Hence, Fj sends (ˆs, ˆαj,k) to all other parties Pk̸=j, where ˆs = (ˆs[1], · · · , ˆs[λ]) and
ˆαj,k = (ˆαj,k[1], · · · , ˆαj,k[λ]).
1 Recall that the DDH assumption states that the distribution ensembles {g, h, gx, hx :
x ←Zq} and {g, h, gx, hx′ : x, x′ ←Zq} are computationally indistinguishable.

296
S. Chakraborty et al.
Veriﬁcation
phase:
Upon
receiving
(ˆcj,k, (ˆs, ˆαj,k))
from
Pj,
each
party
Pk̸=j
parses
ˆcj,k
=
(( Bj,k[1], 
Hj,k[1]), · · · , ( Bj,k[λ], 
Hj,k[λ])),
ˆαj,k = (ˆαj,k[1], · · · , ˆαj,k[λ]), and encodes ˆs = (ˆs[1], · · · , ˆs[λ]) ∈{0, 1}λ as
ˆu = (ˆu[1], · · · , ˆu[λ]) ∈{−1, 1}λ. Hence, for all i ∈[λ], it veriﬁes whether
Bj,k[i] = g
ˆαj,k[i]
j,k
· T ˆu[i]
1,j,k and 
Hj,k[i] = h
ˆαj,k[i]
j,k
· T ˆu[i]
2,j,k. If for any i ∈[λ], the above
veriﬁcation fails, party Pk aborts; otherwise Pk accepts the commitment.
Theorem 2. The protocol ΠsCOM srUC-realizes the FsCOM functionality in the
FSAT-hybrid model in the presence of up to n −1 static malicious corruptions.
We defer the proof of Theorem 2 to the full version [12].
4
Coin Tossing
In this section, we build a sanitizing protocol that implements the regular coin
tossing functionality. Our protocol is described in the FsCOM-hybrid model, and
therefore must implement the ﬁrewall that interacts with the FsCOM functionality.
4.1
The Coin Tossing Functionality
We start by recalling the regular FTOSS functionality below. Intuitively, the func-
tionality waits to receive an initialization message from all the parties. Hence,
it samples a uniformly random λ-bit string s and sends s to the adversary.
The adversary now can decide to deliver s to a subset of the parties. The lat-
ter restriction comes from the fact that it is impossible to toss a coin fairly so
that no adversary can cause a premature abort, or bias the outcome, without
assuming honest majority [14].
Functionality FTOSS
The coin tossing functionality FTOSS runs with parties P1, . . . , Pn, and an adver-
sary S. It consists of the following communication interface.
– Upon receiving a message (Init, sid, Pi) from Pi: If this is the ﬁrst such message
from Pi then record (sid, Pi) and send (Init, Pi) to S. If there exist records
(sid, Pj) for all (Pj)j∈[n], then sample a uniformly random bit string s ∈{0, 1}λ
and send s to the adversary S.
– Upon receiving a message (Deliver, sid, Pi) from S (and if this is the ﬁrst such
message from S), and if there exist records (sid, Pj) for all (Pj)j∈[n], send s to
Pi; otherwise do nothing.

Universally Composable Subversion-Resilient Cryptography
297
4.2
Sanitizing Blum’s Protocol
Next, we show how to sanitize a variation of the classical Blum coin tossing
protocol [5]. In this protocol, each party commits to a random string si and
later opens the commitment, thus yielding s = s1 ⊕· · · ⊕sn. The ﬁrewall here
samples an independent random string ri which is used to blind the string si
chosen by the (possibly specious) core. We defer the security proof to the full
version [12].
Protocol ΠTOSS (Sanitizing Blum’s Coin Tossing)
The protocol is described in the 
FsCOM-hybrid model, and is executed between
parties P1, . . . , Pn each consisting of a core Ci and a ﬁrewall Fi. Party Pi = (Ci, Fi)
proceeds as follows (the code for all other parties is analogous).
1. The
core
Ci
samples
a
random
string
si
∈
{0, 1}λ
and
sends
(Commit, sidi, cidi, Ci, si) to 
FsCOM.
2. Upon receiving (Receipt, sidi, cidi, Ci) from 
FsCOM, the ﬁrewall Fi samples a
random string ri ∈{0, 1}λ and sends (Blind, sidi, cidi, Ci, ri) to 
FsCOM.
3. Upon
receiving
(Blinded, sidi, cidi, Ci, ri)
from

FsCOM,
as
well
as
(Receipt, sidj, cidj, Cj) for all other cores Cj̸=i, the core Ci sends the
message (Open, sidi, cidi, Ci) to 
FsCOM.
4. Upon receiving (Open, sidj, cidj, Cj, ˆsj) from 
FsCOM, for each core Cj̸=i, the
core Ci outputs s := si ⊕ri ⊕
j̸=i ˆsj. (If any of the cores Cj do not open
its commitment, then Ci sets ˆsj = 0λ.)
Theorem 3. The protocol ΠTOSS wsrUC-realizes the FTOSS functionality in the
(FSAT, FsCOM)-hybrid model in the presence of up to n −1 malicious corruptions.
5
Completeness Theorem
In this section, we show how to sanitize the classical compiler by Goldreich,
Micali and Wigderson (GMW) [20], for turning MPC protocols with security
against semi-honest adversaries into ones with security against malicious adver-
saries. On a high level, the GMW compiler works by having each party commit
to its input. Furthermore, the parties run a coin tossing protocol to determine
the randomness to be used in the protocol; since the random tape of each party
must be secret, the latter is done in such a way that the other parties only learn
a commitment to the other parties’ random tape. Finally, the commitments to
each party’s input and randomness are used to enforce semi-honest behavior:
Each party computes the next message using the underlying semi-honest proto-
col, but also proves in zero knowledge that this message was computed correctly
using the committed input and randomness.

298
S. Chakraborty et al.
5.1
Sanitizable Commit and Prove
The GMW compiler was analyzed in the UC setting by Canetti, Lindell, Ostro-
vsky and Sahai [9]. A diﬃculty that arises is that the receiver of a UC commit-
ment obtains no information about the value that was committed to. Hence, the
parties cannot prove in zero knowledge statements relative to their input/ran-
domness commitment. This issue is solved by introducing a more general commit-
and-prove functionality that essentially combines both the commitment and
zero-knowledge capabilities in a single functionality. In turn, the commit-and-
prove functionality can be realized using commitments and zero-knowledge
proofs.
In order to sanitize the GMW compiler, we follow a similar approach. Namely,
we introduce a sanitazable commit-and-prove functionality (denoted FC&P and
depicted below) and show that this functionality suﬃces for our purpose. Intu-
itively, FC&P allows the core Ci of each party Pi to (i) commit to multiple secret
inputs x, and (ii) prove arbitrary NP statements y (w.r.t. an underlying rela-
tion R that is a parameter of the functionality) whose corresponding witnesses
consist of all the values x. Whenever the core Ci commits to a value x, the ﬁre-
wall Fi may decide to blind x with a random string r (which is then revealed
to the core). Similarly, whenever the core proves a statement y, the ﬁrewall Fi
may check if the given statement makes sense, in which case, and assuming the
statement is valid, the functionality informs all other parties that y is indeed a
correct statement proven by Pi.
Functionality FC&P
The sanitizable commit-and-prove functionality 
FC&P is parameterized by an NP
relation R, and runs with parties P1, . . . , Pn (each consisting of a core Ci and
a ﬁrewall Fi) and an adversary S. The functionality consists of the following
communication interfaces for the cores and the ﬁrewalls respectively.
Interface IO
– Upon receiving a message (Commit, sid, cid, Ci, x) from Ci, where x ∈{0, 1}∗,
record the tuple (sid, cid, Ci, x) and send the message (Receipt, sid, cid, Ci) to
Fi. Ignore future commands of the form (Commit, sid, cid, Ci, ·).
– Upon receiving a message (Prove, sid, Ci, y) from Ci, if there is at least one
record (sid, cid, Ci, ·) and a corresponding (Blind, sid, cid, Ci, ·) message was
sent to 
FC&P, then send the message (Sanitize, sid, Ci, y) to Fi.
Interface S
– Upon receiving a message (Blind, sid, cid, Ci, r) from Fi, where r ∈{0, 1}∗,
proceed as follows: if the tuple (sid, cid, Ci, x) is recorded, modify the tuple
to be (sid, cid, Ci, ˆx = x ⊕r) and send the message (Blinded, sid, cid, Ci, r) to
Ci, and (Receipt, sid, cid, Ci) to all Cj̸=i and S; otherwise do nothing. Ignore
future commands of the form (Blind, sid, cid, Ci, ·).
– Upon receiving a message (Continue, sid, Ci, y) from Fi, retrieve all tuples
of the form (sid, ·, Ci, ˆx) and let x be the list containing all (possibly sani-

Universally Composable Subversion-Resilient Cryptography
299
tized) witnesses ˆx. Then compute R(y, x): if R(y, x) = 1 send the message
(Proved, sid, Ci, y) to all Cj̸=i and S, otherwise ignore the command.
In the full version [12], we show how to realize the sanitazable commit-and-
prove functionality from malleable dual-mode commitments, a primitive which we
introduce, and re-randomizable NIZKs for all of NP. Our commitment protocol
from Sect. 3 can be seen as a concrete instantiation of malleable dual-mode
commitments based on the DDH assumption.
5.2
Sanitizing the GMW Compiler
We are now ready to sanitize the GMW compiler. Let Π be an MPC protocol.
The (sanitized) protocol ΠGMW is depicted below and follows exactly the ideas
outlined above adapted to the UC framework with reverse ﬁrewalls.
Protocol ΠGMW (Sanitizing the GMW compiler)
The protocol is described in the ( 
FC&P, FTOSS)-hybrid model, and is executed
between parties P1, . . . , Pn each consisting of a core Ci and a ﬁrewall Fi. Party
Pi = (Ci, Fi) proceeds as follows (the code for all other parties is analogous).
Random tape generation: When activated for the ﬁrst time, party Pi generates
its own randomness with the help of all other parties:
1. The core Ci picks a random si ∈{0, 1}λ and sends (Commit, sidi, cidi, si) to

FC&P.
2. Upon receiving (Receipt, sidi, cidi, Ci) from 
FC&P, the ﬁrewall Fi picks a ran-
dom ri ∈{0, 1}λ and sends (Blind, sidi, cidi, Ci, ri) to 
FC&P.
3. All the cores interact with FTOSS in order to obtain a public random string
s∗
i that is used to determine the random tape of Ci. Namely, each core Cj,
for j ∈[n], sends (Init, sidi,j, Pj) to FTOSS and waits to receive the message
(Delivered, sidi,j, Pj, s∗
i ) from the functionality.
4. Upon receiving (Blinded, sidi, cidi, Ci, ri) from 
FC&P, the core Ci deﬁnes ˆri =
s∗
i ⊕(si ⊕ri).
Input
commitment: When activated with input xi, the core Ci sends
(Commit, sidi, cid′
i, xi) to

FC&P and adds xi to the (initially empty) list of
inputs xi (containing the inputs from all the previous activations of the pro-
tocol). Upon receiving (Receipt, sidi, cid′
i, Ci) from 
FC&P, the ﬁrewall Fi sends
(Blind, sidi, cid′
i, Ci, 0|xi|) to 
FC&P.
Protocol execution: Let τ ∈{0, 1}∗be the sequence of messages that were
broadcast in all activations of Π until now (where τ is initially empty).
1. The core Ci runs the code of Π on its input list xi, transcript τ, and ran-
dom tape ˆri (as determined above). If Π instructs Pi to broadcast a message,
proceed to the next step.
2. For each outgoing message μi that Pi sends in Π, the core Ci sends
(Prove, sidi, Ci, (μi, s∗
i , τ)) to

FC&P, where the relation parameterizing the

300
S. Chakraborty et al.
functionality is deﬁned as follows:
R := {((μi, s∗
i , τ), (xi, si, ri)) : μi = Π(xi, τ, s∗
i ⊕(si ⊕ri))} .
In words, the core Ci proves that the message μi is the correct next message
generated by Π when the input sequence is xi, the random tape is ˆri = s∗
i ⊕
(si ⊕ri), and the current transcript is τ. Thus, Ci appends μi to the current
transcript τ.
3. Upon receiving (Sanitize, sidi, Ci, (μi, s∗
i , τ)) from 
FC&P, the ﬁrewall Fi veri-
ﬁes that s∗
i is the same string obtained via FTOSS and that τ consists of all
the messages that were broadcast in all the activations up to this point. If
these conditions are not met, Fi ignores the message and otherwise it sends
(Continue, sidi, Ci, (μi, s∗
i , τ)) to 
FC&P and appends μi to the current tran-
script τ.
4. Upon receiving (Proved, sidj, Cj, (μj, s∗
i , τ)) from 
FC&P, both the core Ci and
the ﬁrewall Fi append μj to the transcript τ and repeat the above steps.
Output: Whenever Π outputs a value, 
ΠGMW generates the same output.
A few remarks are in order. First, and without loss of generality, we assume
that the underlying protocol Π is reactive and works by a series of activations,
where in each activation, only one of the parties has an input; the random tape
of each party is taken to be a λ-bit string for simplicity. Second, each party needs
to invoke an independent copy of FC&P; we identify these copies as sidi, where
we can for instance let sidi = sid||i. Third, we slightly simplify the randomness
generation phase using the coin tossing functionality FTOSS. In particular, each
core Ci commits to a random string si via FC&P; the corresponding ﬁrewall Fi
blinds si with a random string ri. Thus, the parties obtain public randomness
s∗
i via FTOSS, yielding a sanitized random tape ˆri = s∗
i ⊕(si ⊕ri) for party Pi.
Note that it is crucial that the parties obtain independent public random strings
s∗
i in order to determine the random tape of party Pi. In fact, if instead we
would use a single invocation of FTOSS yielding common public randomness s,
two malicious parties Pi and Pj could pick the same random tape by choosing
the same values si, ri, sj, rj. Clearly, the latter malicious adversary cannot be
reduced to a semi-honest adversary.
The theorem below states the security of the GMW compiler with reverse ﬁre-
walls. The proof is deferred to the full version [12].
Theorem 4. Let F be any functionality for n parties. Assuming that Π UC
realizes F in the presence of up to t ≤n −1 semi-honest corruptions, then the
compiled protocol ΠGMW wsrUC realizes F in the (FSAT, FC&P, FTOSS)-hybrid model
in the presence of up to t malicious corruptions.
6
Conclusions and Future Work
We have put forward a generalization of the UC framework by Canetti [6,7],
where each party consists of a core (which has secret inputs and is in charge of

Universally Composable Subversion-Resilient Cryptography
301
generating protocol messages) and a reverse ﬁrewall (which has no secrets and
sanitizes the outgoing/incoming communication from/to the core). Both the core
and the ﬁrewall can be subject to diﬀerent ﬂavors of corruption, modeling the
strongly adversarial setting where a subset of the players is maliciously corrupt,
whereas the remaining honest parties are subject to subversion attacks. The
main advantage of our approach is that it comes with very strong composition
guarantees, as it allows, for the ﬁrst time, to design subversion-resilient protocols
that can be used as part of larger, more complex protocols, while retaining
security even when protocol sessions are running concurrently (under adversarial
scheduling) and in the presence of subversion attacks.
Moreover, we have demonstrated the feasibility of our approach by designing
UC reverse ﬁrewalls for cryptographic protocols realizing pretty natural ideal
functionalities such as commitments and coin tossing, and, in fact, even for arbi-
trary functionalities. Several avenues for further research are possible, including
designing UC reverse ﬁrewalls for other ideal functionalities (such as oblivious
transfer and zero knowledge), removing (at least partially) trusted setup assump-
tions, and deﬁning UC subversion-resilient MPC in the presence of adaptive
corruptions.
References
1. Ateniese, G., Magri, B., Venturi, D.: Subversion-resilient signature schemes. In:
ACM CCS 2015. ACM Press, October 2015
2. Bellare, M., Jaeger, J., Kane, D.: Mass-surveillance without the state: strongly
undetectable algorithm-substitution attacks. In: ACM CCS 2015. ACM Press,
October 2015
3. Bellare, M., Paterson, K.G., Rogaway, P.: Security of symmetric encryption against
mass surveillance. In: Garay, J.A., Gennaro, R. (eds.) CRYPTO 2014, Part I.
LNCS, vol. 8616, pp. 1–19. Springer, Heidelberg (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-662-44371-2 1
4. Berndt, S., Liskiewicz, M.: Algorithm substitution attacks from a steganographic
perspective. In: ACM CCS 2017. ACM Press, October/November 2017
5. Blum, M.: Coin ﬂipping by telephone. In: CRYPTO 1981. U.C. Santa Barbara,
Dept. of Elec. and Computer Eng. (1981)
6. Canetti, R.: Universally composable security: a new paradigm for cryptographic
protocols. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2000/067 (2000). https://eprint.iacr.
org/2000/067
7. Canetti, R.: Universally composable security: a new paradigm for cryptographic
protocols. In: 42nd FOCS. IEEE Computer Society Press, October 2001
8. Canetti, R., Fischlin, M.: Universally composable commitments. In: Kilian, J. (ed.)
CRYPTO 2001. LNCS, vol. 2139, pp. 19–40. Springer, Heidelberg (2001). https://
doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44647-8 2
9. Canetti, R., Lindell, Y., Ostrovsky, R., Sahai, A.: Universally composable two-party
and multi-party secure computation. In: 34th ACM STOC. ACM Press, May 2002
10. Canetti, R., Sarkar, P., Wang, X.: Eﬃcient and round-optimal oblivious trans-
fer and commitment with adaptive security. In: Moriai, S., Wang, H. (eds.) ASI-
ACRYPT 2020, Part III. LNCS, vol. 12493, pp. 277–308. Springer, Cham (2020).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-64840-4 10

302
S. Chakraborty et al.
11. Chakraborty,
S.,
Dziembowski,
S.,
Nielsen,
J.B.:
Reverse
ﬁre-
walls for actively secure MPCs. In: Micciancio, D., Ristenpart, T. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2020, Part II. LNCS, vol. 12171, pp. 732–762. Springer, Cham (2020).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-56880-1 26
12. Chakraborty, S., Magri, B., Nielsen, J.B., Venturi, D.: Universally composable
subversion-resilient cryptography. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2022). https://www.
iacr.org
13. Chase, M., Kohlweiss, M., Lysyanskaya, A., Meiklejohn, S.: Malleable proof sys-
tems and applications. In: Pointcheval, D., Johansson, T. (eds.) EUROCRYPT
2012. LNCS, vol. 7237, pp. 281–300. Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-642-29011-4 18
14. Cleve, R.: Limits on the security of coin ﬂips when half the processors are faulty
(extended abstract). In: 18th ACM STOC. ACM Press, May 1986
15. Degabriele, J.P., Paterson, K.G., Schuldt, J.C.N., Woodage, J.: Backdoors in pseu-
dorandom number generators: possibility and impossibility results. In: Robshaw,
M., Katz, J. (eds.) CRYPTO 2016, Part I. LNCS, vol. 9814, pp. 403–432. Springer,
Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53018-4 15
16. Dodis, Y., Ganesh, C., Golovnev, A., Juels, A., Ristenpart, T.: A formal treat-
ment of backdoored pseudorandom generators. In: Oswald, E., Fischlin, M. (eds.)
EUROCRYPT 2015, Part I. LNCS, vol. 9056, pp. 101–126. Springer, Heidelberg
(2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-46800-5 5
17. Dodis, Y., Mironov, I., Stephens-Davidowitz, N.: Message transmission with reverse
ﬁrewalls—secure communication on corrupted machines. In: Robshaw, M., Katz, J.
(eds.) CRYPTO 2016, Part I. LNCS, vol. 9814, pp. 341–372. Springer, Heidelberg
(2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53018-4 13
18. Fischlin, M., Janson, C., Mazaheri, S.: Backdoored hash functions: immunizing
HMAC and HKDF. In: CSF 2018 Computer Security Foundations Symposium.
IEEE Computer Society Press (2018)
19. Ganesh, C., Magri, B., Venturi, D.: Cryptographic reverse ﬁrewalls for interactive
proof systems. In: ICALP 2020. LIPIcs, Schloss Dagstuhl, July 2020
20. Goldreich, O., Micali, S., Wigderson, A.: How to play any mental game or A
completeness theorem for protocols with honest majority. In: 19th ACM STOC.
ACM Press, May 1987
21. Mironov, I., Stephens-Davidowitz, N.: Cryptographic reverse ﬁrewalls. In: Oswald,
E., Fischlin, M. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2015, Part II. LNCS, vol. 9057, pp. 657–686.
Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-46803-6 22
22. Young, A., Yung, M.: The dark side of “black-box” cryptography or: should we
trust capstone? In: Koblitz, N. (ed.) CRYPTO 1996. LNCS, vol. 1109, pp. 89–103.
Springer, Heidelberg (1996). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-68697-5 8
23. Young, A., Yung, M.: Kleptography: using cryptography against cryptography.
In: Fumy, W. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 1997. LNCS, vol. 1233, pp. 62–74. Springer,
Heidelberg (1997). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-69053-0 6

