Watermarking PRFs Against Quantum
Adversaries
Fuyuki Kitagawa(B) and Ryo Nishimaki(B)
NTT Corporation, Tokyo, Japan
{fuyuki.kitagawa.yh,ryo.nishimaki.zk}@hco.ntt.co.jp
Abstract. We initiate the study of software watermarking against quan-
tum adversaries. A quantum adversary generates a quantum state as a
pirate software that potentially removes an embedded message from a
classical marked software. Extracting an embedded message from quan-
tum pirate software is diﬃcult since measurement could irreversibly alter
the quantum state. In software watermarking against classical adver-
saries, a message extraction algorithm crucially uses the (input-output)
behavior of a classical pirate software to extract an embedded message.
Even if we instantiate existing watermarking PRFs with quantum-safe
building blocks, it is not clear whether they are secure against quantum
adversaries due to the quantum-speciﬁc property above. Thus, we need
entirely new techniques to achieve software watermarking against quan-
tum adversaries.
In this work, we deﬁne secure watermarking PRFs for quantum adver-
saries (unremovability against quantum adversaries). We also present two
watermarking PRFs as follows.
– We construct a privately extractable watermarking PRF against
quantum adversaries from the quantum hardness of the learning with
errors (LWE) problem. The marking and extraction algorithms use
a public parameter and a private extraction key, respectively. The
watermarking PRF is unremovable even if adversaries have (the pub-
lic parameter and) access to the extraction oracle, which returns a
result of extraction for a queried quantum circuit.
– We construct a publicly extractable watermarking PRF against
quantum adversaries from indistinguishability obfuscation (IO) and
the quantum hardness of the LWE problem. The marking and extrac-
tion algorithms use a public parameter and a public extraction key,
respectively. The watermarking PRF is unremovable even if adver-
saries have the extraction key (and the public parameter).
We develop a quantum extraction technique to extract information (a
classical string) from a quantum state without destroying the state too
much. We also introduce the notion of extraction-less watermarking
PRFs as a crucial building block to achieve the results above by combin-
ing the tool with our quantum extraction technique.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2022
O. Dunkelman and S. Dziembowski (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2022, LNCS 13277, pp. 488–518, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-07082-2_18

Watermarking PRFs Against Quantum Adversaries
489
1
Introduction
1.1
Background
Software watermarking is a cryptographic primitive that achieves a digital ana-
log of watermarking. A marking algorithm of software watermarking can embed
an arbitrary message (bit string) into a computer software modeled as a circuit.
A marked software almost preserves the functionality of the original software.
An extraction algorithm of software watermarking can extract the embedded
message from a marked software. Secure software watermarking should guaran-
tee that no adversary can remove the embedded message without signiﬁcantly
destroying the functionality of the original software (called unremovability).
Barak et al. [BGI+12] initiate the study of software watermarking and
present the ﬁrst deﬁnition of cryptographically secure software watermarking.
Hopper et al.
[HMW07] also study the deﬁnition of cryptographically secure
watermarking for perceptual objects. However, both works do not present a
secure concrete scheme. A few works study secure constructions of watermark-
ing for cryptographic primitives [NSS99,YF11,Nis13,Nis19], but they consider
only restricted removal strategies. Cohen et al. [CHN+18] present stronger def-
initions for software watermarking and the ﬁrst secure watermarking schemes
for cryptographic primitives against arbitrary removal strategies. After the cel-
ebrated work, watermarking for cryptographic primitives have been extensively
studied [BLW17,KW21,QWZ18,KW19,YAL+19,GKM+19,YAYX20,Nis20].
Primary applications of watermarking are identifying ownership of objects
and tracing users that distribute illegal copies. Watermarking for cryptographic
primitives also has another exciting application. Aaronson et al. [ALL+21] and
Kitagawa et al. [KNY21] concurrently and independently ﬁnd that we can con-
struct secure software leasing schemes by combining watermarking with quantum
cryptography.1 Secure software leasing [AL21] is a quantum cryptographic prim-
itive that prevents users from generating authenticated pirated copies of leased
software.2 Since watermarking has such an exciting application in quantum cryp-
tography and quantum computers might be an imminent threat to cryptography
due to rapid progress in research on quantum computing, it is natural and fas-
cinating to study secure software watermarking in the quantum setting.
In quantum cryptography, building blocks must be quantum-safe such as
lattice-based cryptography [Reg09]. However, even if we replace building blocks
of existing cryptographic primitives/protocols with quantum-safe ones, we do not
necessarily obtain quantum-safe cryptographic primitives/protocols [BDF+11,
ARU14]. We sometimes need new proof techniques which are diﬀerent
from classical ones due to quantum speciﬁc properties such as no-cloning
and superposition access [Wat09,Zha12b,Zha12a,Unr12,Zha19,CMSZ21]. Even
worse, we must consider entirely diﬀerent security models in some settings.
1 Precisely speaking, Aaronson et al. achieve copy-detection schemes [ALL+21], which
are essentially the same as secure software leasing schemes.
2 Leased software must be a quantum state since classical bit strings can be easily
copied.

490
F. Kitagawa and R. Nishimaki
Zhandry [Zha20] studies traitor tracing [CFN94] in the quantum setting as such
an example. In quantum traitor tracing, an adversary can output a quantum state
as a pirate decoder. Zhandry shows that we need new techniques for achieving
quantum traitor tracing because running a quantum pirate decoder to extract
information may irreversibly alter the state due to measurement.
Zhandry [Zha20] refers to software watermarking as a cryptographic primitive
that has a similar issue to quantum traitor tracing. However, his work focuses
only on traitor tracing and does not study software watermarking against quan-
tum adversaries. If we use software watermarking in the quantum setting, an
adversary can output a quantum state as a pirate circuit where an embedded
message might be removed. However, previous works consider a setting where an
adversary outputs a classical pirate circuit. It is not clear whether watermark-
ing schemes based on quantum-safe cryptography are secure against quantum
adversaries because we need an entirely new extraction algorithm to extract an
embedded message from a quantum pirate circuit. Thus, the main question in
this study is:
Can we achieve secure watermarking for cryptographic primitives against
quantum adversaries?
We aﬃrmatively answer this question in this work.
1.2
Our Result
Our main contributions are two-fold. One is the deﬁnitional work. We deﬁne
watermarking for pseudorandom functions (PRFs) against quantum adversaries,
where adversaries output a quantum state as a pirate circuit that distinguishes
a PRF from a random function.3 The other one is constructing the ﬁrst secure
watermarking PRFs against quantum adversaries. We present two watermarking
PRFs as follows.
– We construct a privately extractable watermarking PRF against quantum
adversaries from the quantum hardness of the learning with errors (LWE)
problem. This watermarking PRF is secure in the presence of the extraction
oracle and supports public marking. That is, the marking and extraction
algorithms use a public parameter and secret extraction key, respectively.
The watermarking PRF is unremovable even if adversaries have access to the
extraction oracle, which returns a result of extraction for a queried quantum
circuit.
– We construct a publicly extractable watermarking PRF against quantum
adversaries from indistinguishability obfuscation (IO) and the quantum hard-
ness of the LWE problem. This watermarking PRF also supports public mark-
ing. That is, the marking and extraction algorithms use a public parameter
3 This deﬁnitional choice comes from the deﬁnition of traceable PRFs [GKWW21].
See Sect. 1.3 and the full version for the detail.

Watermarking PRFs Against Quantum Adversaries
491
and a public extraction key, respectively. The watermarking PRF is unre-
movable (we do not need to consider the mark and extraction oracles since it
supports public marking and public extraction).
The former and latter PRFs satisfy weak pseudorandomness and standard
(strong) pseudorandomness even against a watermarking authority, respectively.
We develop a quantum extraction algorithm to achieve the results above.
Zhandry [Zha20] presents a useful technique for extracting information from
quantum states without destroying them too much. However, we cannot sim-
ply apply his technique to the watermarking setting. Embedded information
(arbitrary string) is chosen from an exponentially large set in the watermark-
ing setting. On the other hand, in the traitor tracing setting, we embed a user
index, which could be chosen from a polynomially large set, in a decryption
key. Zhandry’s technique is tailored to traitor tracing based on private linear
broadcast encryption (PLBE) [BSW06] where user information is chosen from
a polynomially large set with linear structure. Thus, we extend Zhandry’s tech-
nique [Zha20] to extract information chosen from an exponentially large set.
We also introduce the notion of extraction-less watermarking as a crucial tool to
achieve watermarking against quantum adversaries. This tool is a suitable build-
ing block for our quantum extraction technique in our watermarking extraction
algorithm. These are our technical contributions. See Sect. 1.3 for the detail.
Although this paper focuses on watermarking PRFs against quantum adver-
saries, it is easy to extend our deﬁnitions to watermarking public-key encryption
(PKE) against quantum adversaries. In particular, our construction technique
easily yields watermarking PKE (where a decryption circuit is marked) schemes.
However, we do not provide the detail of watermarking PKE in this paper. We
will provide them in the full version.
1.3
Technical Overview
Syntax of Watermarking PRF. We ﬁrst review the syntax of watermarking PRF
used in this work. A watermarking PRF scheme consists of ﬁve algorithms
(Setup, Gen, Eval, Mark, Extract).4 Setup outputs a public parameter pp and an
extraction key xk. Gen is given pp and outputs a PRF key prfk and a public tag
τ. Eval is the PRF evaluation algorithm that takes as an input prfk and x in
the domain and outputs y. By using Mark, we can generate a marked evaluation
circuit that has embedded message m ∈{0, 1}ℓm and can be used to evalu-
ate Eval(prfk, x′) for almost all x′. Finally, Extract is the extraction algorithm
supposed to extract the embedded message from a pirated quantum evaluation
circuit generated from the marked evaluation circuit. By default, in this work,
we consider the public marking setting, where anyone can execute Mark. Thus,
Mark takes pp as an input. On the other hand, we consider both the private
extraction and the public extraction settings. Thus, the extraction key xk used
4 In this paper, standard math font stands for classical algorithms, and calligraphic
font stands for quantum algorithms.

492
F. Kitagawa and R. Nishimaki
by Extract is kept secret by an authority in the private extraction setting and
made public in the public extraction setting.
In this work, we allow Extract to take the public tag τ generated with the
original PRF key corresponding to the pirate circuit. In reality, we execute Extract
for a software when a user claims that the software is illegally generated by
using her/his PRF key. Thus, it is natural to expect we can use a user’s public
tag for extraction. Moreover, pirate circuits are distinguishers, not predictors
in this work. As discussed by Goyal et al. [GKWW21], security against pirate
distinguishers is much preferable compared to security against pirate predictors
considered in many previous works on watermarking. In this case, it seems that
such additional information fed to Extract is unavoidable. For a more detailed
discussion on the syntax, see the discussion in Sect. 3.1.
It is also natural to focus on distinguishers breaking weak pseudorandom-
ness of PRFs when we consider pirate distinguishers instead of pirate predic-
tors. Goyal et al. [GKWW21] already discussed this point. Thus, we focus on
watermarking weak PRF in this work.
Deﬁnition of Unremovability Aagainst Quantum Adversaries. We say that a
watermarking PRF scheme satisﬁes unremovability if given a marked evaluation
circuit C that has an embedded message m, any adversary cannot generate a
circuit such that it is a “good enough circuit”, but the extraction algorithm fails
to output m. In this work, we basically follow the notion of “good enough circuit”
deﬁned by Goyal et al. [GKWW21] as stated above. Let D be the following
distribution for a PRF Eval(prfk, ·) : Dom →Ran.
D:Generate b ←{0, 1}, x ←Dom, and y0 ←Ran. Compute y1 ←Eval(prfk, x).
Output (b, x, yb).
A circuit is deﬁned as good enough circuit with respect to Eval(prfk, ·) if given
(x, yb) output by D, it can correctly guess b with probability signiﬁcantly greater
than 1/2. In other words, a circuit is deﬁned as good enough if the circuit breaks
weak PRF security.
Below, for a distribution D′ whose output is of the form (b, x, y), let
MD′ = (M D′,0, M D′,1) be binary positive operator valued measures (POVMs)
that represents generating random (b, x, y) from D′ and testing if a quantum
circuit can guess b from (x, y). Then, for a quantum state |ψ⟩, the overall distin-
guishing advantage of it for the above distribution D is ⟨ψ| M D,0 |ψ⟩. Thus, a
natural adaptation of the above notion of goodness for quantum circuits might
be to deﬁne a quantum state |ψ⟩as good if ⟨ψ| M D,0 |ψ⟩is signiﬁcantly greater
than 1/2. However, this notion of goodness for quantum circuits is not really
meaningful. The biggest issue is that it does not consider the stateful nature of
quantum programs.
This issue was previously addressed by Zhandry [Zha20] in the context of
traitor tracing against quantum adversaries. In the context of classical traitor
tracing or watermarking, we can assume that a pirate circuit is stateless, or can
be rewound to its original state. This assumption is reasonable. If we have the
software description of the pirate circuit, such a rewinding is trivial. Even if

Watermarking PRFs Against Quantum Adversaries
493
we have a hardware box in which a pirate circuit is built, it seems that such a
rewinding is possible by hard reboot or cutting power. On the other hand, in
the context of quantum watermarking, we have to consider that a pirate circuit
is inherently stateful since it is described as a quantum state. Operations to a
quantum state can alter the state, and in general, it is impossible to rewind the
state into its original state. Regarding the deﬁnition of good quantum circuits
above, if we can somehow compute the average success probability ⟨ψ| M D,0 |ψ⟩
of the quantum state |ψ⟩, the process can change or destroy the quantum state
|ψ⟩. Namely, even if we once conﬁrm that the quantum state |ψ⟩is good by
computing ⟨ψ| M D,0 |ψ⟩, we cannot know the success probability of the quantum
state even right after the computation. Clearly, the above notion of goodness
is not the right notion, and we need one that captures the stateful nature of
quantum programs.
In the work on traitor tracing against quantum adversaries, Zhandry [Zha20]
proposed a notion of goodness for quantum programs that solves the above issue.
We adopt it. For the above POVMs MD, let M′
D be the projective measurement
{Pp}p∈[0,1] that projects a state onto the eigenspaces of M D,0, where each p is
an eigenvalue of M D,0. M′
D is called projective implementation of MD and
denoted as ProjImp(MD). Zhandry showed that the following process has the
same output distribution as MD:
1. Apply the projective measurement M′
D = ProjImp(MD) and obtain p.
2. Output 0 with probability p and output 1 with probability 1 −p.
Intuitively, M′
D project a state to an eigenvector of M D,0 with eigenvalue p,
which can be seen as a quantum state with success probability p. Using M′
D,
Zhandry deﬁned that a quantum circuit is Live if the outcome of the measurement
M′
D is signiﬁcantly greater than 1/2. The notion of Live is a natural extension
of the classical goodness since it collapses to the classical goodness for a classical
decoder. Moreover, we can ensure that a quantum state that is tested as Live still
has a high success probability. On the other hand, the above notion of goodness
cannot say anything about the post-tested quantum state’s success probability
even if the test is passed. In this work, we use the notion of Live quantum circuits
as the notion of good quantum circuits.
Diﬃculty of Quantum Watermarking PRF. From the above discussion, our goal
is to construct a watermarking PRF scheme that guarantees that we can extract
the embedded message correctly if a pirated quantum circuit is Live. In water-
marking PRF schemes, we usually extract an embedded message by applying
several tests on success probability to a pirate circuit. When a pirate circuit is
a quantum state, the set of tests that we can apply is highly limited compared
to a classical circuit due to the stateful nature of quantum states.
One set of tests we can apply without destroying the quantum state is
ProjImp(MD′) for distributions D′ that are indistinguishable from D from the

494
F. Kitagawa and R. Nishimaki
view of the pirate circuit.5 We denote this set as {ProjImp(MD′) | D′
c≈D}.
Zhandry showed that if distributions D1 and D2 are indistinguishable, the
outcome of ProjImp(MD1) is close to that of ProjImp(MD2). By combining
this property with the projective property of projective implementations, as
long as the initial quantum state is Live and we apply only tests contained
in {ProjImp(MD′) | D′
c≈D}, the quantum state remains Live. On the other
hand, if we apply a test outside of {ProjImp(MD′) | D′
c≈D}, the quan-
tum state might be irreversibly altered. This fact is a problem since the set
{ProjImp(MD′) | D′ c≈D} only is not suﬃcient to implement the existing widely
used construction method for watermarking PRF schemes.
To see this, we brieﬂy review the method. In watermarking PRF schemes, the
number of possible embedded messages is super-polynomial, and thus we basically
need to extract an embedded message in a bit-by-bit manner. In the method, such
a bit-by-bit extraction is done as follows. For every i ∈[ℓm], we deﬁne two distri-
butions Si,0 and Si,1 whose output is of the form (b, x, y) as D above. Then, we
design a marked circuit with embedded message m ∈{0, 1}ℓm so that it can be
used to guess b from (x, y) with probability signiﬁcantly greater than 1/2 only for
Si,0 (resp. Si,1) if m[i] = 0 (resp. m[i] = 1). The extraction algorithm can extract
i-th bit of the message m[i] by checking for which distributions of Si,0 and Si,1 a
pirate circuit has a high distinguishing advantage.
As stated above, we cannot use this standard method to extract a mes-
sage from quantum pirate circuits. The reason is that Si,0 and Si,1 are typi-
cally distinguishable. This implies that at least either one of ProjImp(MSi,0) or
ProjImp(MSi,1) is not contained in {ProjImp(MD′) | D′
c≈D}. Since the test
outside of {ProjImp(MD′) | D′ c≈D} might destroy the quantum state, we might
not be able to perform the process for all i, and fail to extract the entire bits of
the embedded message.
It seems that to perform the bit-by-bit extraction for a quantum state, we
need to extend the set of applicable tests and come up with a new extraction
method.
Our Solution: Use of Reverse Projective Property. We ﬁnd that as another appli-
cable set of tests, we have ProjImp(MD′) for distributions D′ that are indistin-
guishable from Drev, where Drev is the following distribution.
Drev: Generate b ←{0, 1}, x ←Dom, and y0 ←Ran. Compute y1 ←
Eval(prfk, x). Output (1 ⊕b, x, yb).
We denote the set as {ProjImp(MD′) | D′
c≈Drev}. Drev is the distribution
the ﬁrst bit of whose output is ﬂipped from that of D. Then, MDrev can be
seen as POVMs that represents generating random (b, x, yb) from D and testing
if a quantum circuit cannot guess b from (x, yb). Thus, we see that MDrev =
(M D,1, M D,0). Recall that MD = (M D,0, M D,1).
5 In the actual extraction process, we use an approximation of projective implemen-
tation introduced by Zhandry [Zha20] since applying a projective implementation is
ineﬃcient. In this overview, we ignore this issue for simplicity.

Watermarking PRFs Against Quantum Adversaries
495
Let D1 ∈{ProjImp(MD′) | D′
c≈D} and Drev
1
be the distribution that
generates (b, x, y) ←D1 and outputs (1⊕b, x, y). Drev
1
is a distribution contained
in {ProjImp(MD′) | D′ c≈Drev}. Similarly to the relation between D and Drev, if
MD1 = (M D1,0, M D1,1), we have MDrev
1
= (M Drev
1 ,1, M Drev
1 ,0). Since M D1,0 +
M D1,1 = I, M D1,0 and M D1,1 share the same set of eigenvectors, and if a vector
is an eigenvector of M D1,0 with eigenvalue p, then it is also an eigenvector of
M D1,1 with eigenvalue 1−p. Thus, if apply ProjImp(MD1) and ProjImp(MDrev
1 )
successively to a quantum state and obtain the outcomes p1 and p′
1, it holds
that p′
1 = 1 −p1. We call this property the reverse projective property of the
projective implementation.
Combining projective and reverse projective properties and the outcome
closeness for indistinguishable distributions of the projective implementation,
we see that the following key fact holds.
Key fact: As long as the initial quantum state is Live and we apply tests
contained in {ProjImp(MD′) | D′
c≈D} or {ProjImp(MD′)|D′
c≈Drev},
the quantum state remains Live. Moreover, if the outcome of applying
ProjImp(MD) to the initial state is p, we get the outcome close to p every
time we apply a test in {ProjImp(MD′) | D′
c≈D}, and we get the outcome
close to 1 −p every time we apply a test in {ProjImp(MD′) | D′ c≈Drev}.
In this work, we perform bit-by-bit extraction of embedded messages by using
the above key fact of the projective implementation. To this end, we introduce the
new notion of extraction-less watermarking PRF as an intermediate primitive.
Via Extraction-Less Watermarking PRF. An extraction-less watermarking PRF
scheme has almost the same syntax as a watermarking PRF scheme, except that
it does not have an extraction algorithm Extract and instead has a simulation
algorithm Sim. Sim is given the extraction key xk, the public tag τ, and an
index i ∈[ℓm], and outputs a tuple of the form (γ, x, y). Sim simulates outputs
of D or Drev for a pirate circuit depending on the message embedded to the
marked circuit corresponding to the pirate circuit. More concretely, we require
that from the view of the pirate circuit generated from a marked circuit with
embedded message m ∈{0, 1}ℓm, outputs of Sim are indistinguishable from those
of D if m[i] = 0 and are indistinguishable from those of Drev if m[i] = 1 for
every i ∈[ℓm]. We call this security notion simulatability for mark-dependent
distributions (SIM-MDD security).
By using an extraction-less watermarking PRF scheme ELWMPRF, we con-
struct a watermarking PRF scheme WMPRF against quantum adversaries as
follows. We use Setup, Gen, Eval, Mark of ELWMPRF as Setup, Gen, Eval, Mark of
WMPRF, respectively. We explain how to construct the extraction algorithm
Extract of WMPRF using Sim of ELWMPRF. For every i ∈[ℓm], we deﬁne Dτ,i as
the distribution that outputs randomly generated (γ, x, y) ←Sim(xk, τ, i). Given
xk, τ, and a quantum state |ψ⟩, Extract extracts the embedded message in the
bit-by-bit manner by repeating the following process for every i ∈[ℓm].

496
F. Kitagawa and R. Nishimaki
– Apply ProjImp(MDτ,i) to |ψi−1⟩and obtain the outcome pi, where |ψ0⟩= |ψ⟩
and |ψi−1⟩is the state after the (i −1)-th loop for every i ∈[ℓm].
– Set m′
i = 0 if pi > 1/2 and otherwise m′
i = 1.
The extracted message is set to m′
1∥· · · ∥m′
ℓm.
We show that the above construction satisﬁes unremovability. Suppose an
adversary is given marked circuit C ←Mark(pp, prfk, m) and generates a quan-
tum state |ψ⟩, where (pp, xk) ←Setup(1λ) and (prfk, τ) ←Gen(pp). Suppose
also that |ψ⟩is Live. This assumption means that the outcome p of applying
ProjImp(MD) to |ψ⟩is 1/2 + ϵ, where ϵ is an inverse polynomial. For every
i ∈[ℓm], from the SIM-MDD security of ELWMPRF, Dτ,i is indistinguishable
from D if m[i] = 0 and is indistinguishable from Drev if m[i] = 1. This means
that Dτ,i ∈{ProjImp(MD′) | D′
c≈D} if m[i] = 0 and Dτ,i ∈{ProjImp(MD′) |
D′
c≈Drev} if m[i] = 1. Then, from the above key fact of the projective imple-
mentation, it holds that pi is close to 1/2 + ϵ > 1/2 if m[i] = 0 and is close to
1/2−ϵ < 1/2 if m[i] = 1. Therefore, we see that Extract correctly extract m from
|ψ⟩. This means that WMPRF satisﬁes unremovability.
The above deﬁnition, construction, and security analysis are simpliﬁed and
ignore many subtleties. The most signiﬁcant point is that we use approximated
projective implementations introduced by Zhandry [Zha20] instead of projective
implementations in the actual construction since applying a projective imple-
mentation is an ineﬃcient process. Moreover, though the outcomes of (approx-
imate) projective implementations for indistinguishable distributions are close,
in the actual analysis, we have to take into account that the outcomes gradually
change every time we apply an (approximate) projective implementation. These
issues can be solved by doing careful parameter settings.
Comparison with the Work by Zhandry [Zha20]. Some readers familiar with
Zhandry’s work [Zha20] might think that our technique contradicts the lesson
from Zhandry’s work since it essentially says that once we ﬁnd a large gap in
success probabilities, the tested quantum pirate circuit might self-destruct. How-
ever, this is not the case. What Zhandry’s work really showed is the following.
Once a quantum pirate circuit itself detects that there is a large gap in success
probabilities, it might self-destruct. Even if an extractor ﬁnds a large gap in
success probabilities, if the tested quantum pirate circuit itself cannot detect the
large gap, the pirate circuit cannot self-destruct. In Zhandry’s work, whenever
an extractor ﬁnds a large gap, the tested pirate circuit also detects the large
gap. In our work, the tested pirate circuit cannot detect a large gap throughout
the extraction process while an extractor can ﬁnd it.
The reason why a pirate circuit cannot detect a large gap in our scheme even
if an extractor can ﬁnd it is as follows. Recall that in the above extraction process
of our scheme based on an extraction-less watermarking PRF scheme, we apply
ProjImp(MDτ,i) to the tested pirate circuit for every i ∈[ℓm]. Each Dτ,i outputs
a tuple of the form (b, x, y) and is indistinguishable from D or Drev depending
on the embedded message. In the process, we apply ProjImp(MDτ,i) for every
i ∈[ℓm], and we get the success probability p if Dτ,i is indistinguishable from D

Watermarking PRFs Against Quantum Adversaries
497
and we get 1 −p if Dτ,i is indistinguishable from Drev. The tested pirate circuit
needs to know which of D or Drev is indistinguishable from the distribution Dτ,i
behind the projective implementation to know which of p or 1−p is the result of
an application of a projective implementation. However, this is impossible. The
tested pirate circuit receives only (x, y) part of Dτ,i’s output and not b part.
(Recall that the task of the pirate circuit is to guess b from (x, y).) The only
diﬀerence between D and Drev is that the ﬁrst-bit b is ﬂipped. Thus, if the b
part is dropped, Dτ,i is, in fact, indistinguishable from both D and Drev. As
a result, the pirate program cannot know which of p or 1 −p is the result of
an application of a projective implementation. In other words, the pirate circuit
cannot detect a large gap in our extraction process.
Instantiating Extraction-Less Watermarking PRF. In the rest of this overview,
we will explain how to realize extraction-less watermarking PRF.
We consider the following two settings similar to the ordinary watermarking
PRF. Recall that we consider the public marking setting by default.
Private-Simulatable: In this setting, the extraction key xk fed into Sim is kept
secret. We require that SIM-MDD security hold under the existence of the
simulation oracle that is given a public tag τ ′ and an index i′ ∈[ℓm] and
returns Sim(xk, τ ′, i′). An extraction-less watermarking PRF scheme in this
setting yields a watermarking PRF scheme against quantum adversaries in
private-extractable setting where unremovability holds for adversaries who
can access the extraction oracle.
Public-Simulatable: In this setting, the extraction key xk is publicly available.
An extraction-less watermarking PRF scheme in this setting yields a water-
marking PRF scheme against quantum adversaries in the public-extractable
setting.
We provide a construction in the ﬁrst setting using private constrained PRF
based on the hardness of the LWE assumption. Also, we provide a construction
in the second setting based on IO and the hardness of the LWE assumption.
To give a high-level idea behind the above constructions, in this overview, we
show how to construct a public-simulatable extraction-less watermarking PRF
in the token-based setting [CHN+18]. In the token-based setting, we treat a
marked circuit C ←Mark(pp, prfk, m) as a tamper-proof hardware token that an
adversary can only access in a black-box way.
Before showing the actual construction, we explain the high-level idea.
Recall that SIM-MDD security requires that an adversary A who is given
C ←Mark(pp, prfk, m) cannot distinguish (γ∗, x∗, y∗) ←Sim(xk, τ, i∗) from an
output of D if m[i∗] = 0 and from that of Drev if m[i∗] = 1. This is the same as
requiring that A cannot distinguish (γ∗, x∗, y∗) ←Sim(xk, τ, i∗) from that of the
following distribution Dreal,i∗. We can check that Dreal,i∗is identical with D if
m[i∗] = 0 and with Drev if m[i∗] = 1.
Dreal,i∗:Generate γ ←{0, 1} and x ←Dom. Then, if γ = m[i∗], generate y ←
Ran, and otherwise, compute y ←Eval(prfk, x). Output (γ, x, y).

498
F. Kitagawa and R. Nishimaki
Essentially, the only attack that A can perform is to feed x∗contained in the
given tuple (γ∗, x∗, y∗) to C and compares the result C(x∗) with y∗, if we ensure
that γ∗, x∗are pseudorandom. In order to make the construction immune to
this attack, letting C ←Mark(pp, prfk, m) and (γ∗, x∗, y∗) ←Sim(xk, τ, i∗), we
have to design Sim and C so that
– If γ = m[i∗], C(x∗) outputs a value diﬀerent from y∗.
– If γ ̸= m[i∗], C(x∗) outputs y∗.
We achieve these conditions as follows. First, we set (γ∗, x∗, y∗) output by
Sim(xk, τ, i∗) so that γ∗and y∗is random values and x∗is an encryption of
y∗∥i∗∥γ∗by a public-key encryption scheme with pseudorandom ciphertext prop-
erty, where the encryption key pk is included in τ. Then, we set C as a token
such that it has the message m and the decryption key sk corresponding to pk
hardwired, and it outputs y∗if the input is decryptable and γ∗̸= m[i∗] holds
for the decrypted y∗∥i∗∥γ∗, and otherwise behaves as Eval(prfk, ·). The actual
construction is as follows.
Let PRF be a PRF family consisting of functions {Fprfk(·) : {0, 1}n →
{0, 1}λ|prfk},
where
λ
is
the
security
parameter
and
n
is
suﬃciently
large. Let PKE
=
(KG, E, D) be a CCA secure public-key encryption
scheme satisfying pseudorandom ciphertext property. Using these ingredients,
We construct an extraction-less watermarking PRF scheme ELWMPRF =
(Setup, Gen, Eval, Mark, Sim) as follows.
Setup(1λ): In this construction, pp := ⊥and xk := ⊥.
Gen(pp): It generates a fresh PRF key prfk of PRF and a key pair (pk, sk) ←
KG(1λ). The PRF key is (prfk, sk) and the corresponding public tag is pk.
Eval((prfk, sk), x): It simply outputs Fprfk(x).
Mark(pp, (prfk, sk), m): It generates the following taken C[prfk, sk, m].
Hard-Coded Constants: prfk, sk, m.
Input: x ∈{0, 1}n.
1. Try to decrypt y∥i∥γ ←D(sk, x) with y ∈{0, 1}λ, i ∈[ℓm], and γ ∈{0, 1}.
2. If decryption succeeds, output y if γ ̸= m[i] and Fprfk(x) otherwise.
3. Otherwise, output Fprfk(x).
Sim(xk, τ, i): It ﬁrst generates γ ←{0, 1} and y ←{0, 1}λ. Then, it parses
τ := pk and generates x ←E(pk, y∥i∥γ). Finally, it outputs (γ, x, y).
We check that ELWMPRF satisﬁes SIM-MDD security. For simplicity, we
ﬁx the message m ∈[ℓm] embedded into the challenge PRF key. Then,
for any adversary A and i∗∈[ℓm], SIM-MDD security requires that given
C[prfk, sk, m] ←Mark(mk, prfk, m) and τ = pk, A cannot distinguish (γ∗, x∗=
E(pk, y∗∥i∗∥γ∗), y∗) ←Sim(xk, τ, i∗) from an output of D if m[i∗] = 0 and is
indistinguishable from Drev if m[i∗] = 1.
We consider the case of m[i∗] = 0. We can ﬁnish the security analysis by
considering the following sequence of mutually indistinguishable hybrid games,

Watermarking PRFs Against Quantum Adversaries
499
where A is given (γ∗, x∗= E(pk, y∗∥i∗∥γ∗), y∗) ←Sim(xk, τ, i∗) in the ﬁrst game,
and on the other hand, is given (γ∗, x∗, y∗) ←D in the last game. We ﬁrst
change the game so that x∗is generated as a uniformly random value instead
of x∗←E(pk, y∗∥i∗∥γ∗) by using the pseudorandom ciphertext property under
CCA of PKE. This is possible since the CCA oracle can simulate access to the
marked token C[prfk, sk, m] by A. Then, we further change the security game so
that if γ∗= 1, y∗is generated as Fprfk(x∗) instead of a uniformly random value by
using the pseudorandomness of PRF. Note that if γ∗= 0, y∗remains uniformly
at random. We see that if γ∗= 1, the token C[prfk, sk, m] never evaluate Fprfk(x∗)
since m[i∗] ̸= γ∗. Thus, this change is possible. We see that now the distribution
of (γ∗, x∗, y∗) is exactly the same as that output by D. Similarly, in the case of
m[i∗] = 1, we can show that an output of Sim(xk, τ, i∗) is indistinguishable from
that output by Drev. The only diﬀerence is that in the ﬁnal step, we change the
security game so that y∗is generated as Fprfk(x∗) if γ∗= 0.
In the actual public-simulatable construction, we implement this idea using iO
and puncturable encryption [CHN+18] instead of token and CCA secure public-
key encryption. Also, in the actual secret-simulatable construction, we basically
follow the same idea using private constrained PRF and secret-key encryption.
1.4
Organization
Due to the space limitation, we omit preliminaries including notations, basics on
quantum informations, and deﬁnitions of standard cryptographic tools. We also
omit most security proofs. See the full version of this paper for omitted contents.
In Sect. 2, we introduce some notions of quantum measurements. In Sect. 3, we
deﬁne watermarking PRF against quantum adversaries. In Sect. 4, we deﬁne
extraction-less watermarking PRF. In Sect. 5, we show we can realize water-
marking PRF against quantum adversaries from extraction-less watermarking
PRF. In Sect. 6, we provide an instantiation of extraction-less watermarking
PRF with private simulation based on the LWE assumption. In Sect. 7, we pro-
vide an instantiation of extraction-less watermarking PRF with public simulation
based on IO and the LWE assumption.
2
Measurement Implementation
Deﬁnition 2.1 (Projective Implementation). Let:
– P = (P , I −P ) be a binary outcome POVM
– D be a ﬁnite set of distributions over outcomes {0, 1}
– E = {ED}D∈D be a projective measurement with index set D.
We deﬁne the following measurement.
1. Measure under the projective measurement E and obtain a distribution D over
{0, 1}.
2. Output a bit sampled from the distribution D.

500
F. Kitagawa and R. Nishimaki
We say this measurement is a projective implementation of P, denoted by
ProjImp(P) if it is equivalent to P.
Theorem 2.1 ([Zha20, Lemma 1]). Any binary outcome POVM P = (P , I−P )
has a projective implementation ProjImp(P).
Deﬁnition 2.2 (Shift Distance). For two distributions D0, D1, the shift dis-
tance with parameter ϵ, denoted by Δϵ
Shift(D0, D1), is the smallest quantity δ such
that for all x ∈R:
Pr[D0 ≤x] ≤Pr[D1 ≤x + ϵ] + δ,
Pr[D0 ≥x] ≤Pr[D1 ≥x −ϵ] + δ,
Pr[D1 ≤x] ≤Pr[D0 ≤x + ϵ] + δ,
Pr[D1 ≥x] ≤Pr[D0 ≥x −ϵ] + δ.
For two real-valued measurements M and N over the same quantum system, the
shift distance between M and N with parameter ϵ is
Δϵ
Shift(M, N) := sup
|ψ⟩
Δϵ
Shift(M(|ψ⟩), N(|ψ⟩)).
Deﬁnition 2.3 ((ϵ, δ)-Almost Projective [Zha20]). A real-valued quantum
measurement M = {M i}i∈I is (ϵ, δ)-almost projective if the following holds. For
any quantum state |ψ⟩, we apply M twice in a row to |ψ⟩and obtain measurement
outcomes x and y, respectively. Then, Pr[|x −y| ≤ϵ] ≥1 −δ.
Theorem 2.2 ([Zha20, Theorem 2]). Let D be any probability distribution and
P be a collection of projective measurements. For any 0 < ϵ, δ < 1, there exists
an algorithm of measurement API ϵ,δ
P,D that satisﬁes the following.
– Δϵ
Shift(API ϵ,δ
P,D, ProjImp(PD)) ≤δ.
– API ϵ,δ
P,D is (ϵ, δ)-almost projective.
– The expected running time of API ϵ,δ
P,D is TP,D ·poly(1/ϵ, log(1/δ)) where TP,D
is the combined running time of D, the procedure mapping i →(P i, I −P i),
and the running time of measurement (P i, I −P i).
Theorem 2.3 ([Zha20, Corollary 1]). Let q be an eﬃciently constructible,
potentially mixed state, and D0, D1 eﬃciently sampleable distributions. If D0
and D1 are computationally indistinguishable, for any inverse polynomial ϵ and
any function δ, we have Δ3ϵ
Shift(API ϵ,δ
P,D0, API ϵ,δ
P,D1) ≤2δ + negl(λ).
Note that the indistinguishability of D0 and D1 needs to hold against dis-
tinguishers who can construct q in the theorem above. However, this fact is not
explicitly stated in [Zha20]. We need to care about this condition if we need
secret information to construct q, and the secret information is also needed to
sample an output from D0 or D1. We handle such a situation when analyzing
the unremovability of our privately extractable watermarking PRF. In that situ-
ation, we need a secret extraction key to construct q and sample an output from
D0 and D1.
We also deﬁne the notion of the reverse almost projective property of API.

Watermarking PRFs Against Quantum Adversaries
501
Deﬁnition 2.4 ((ϵ, δ)-Reverse Almost Projective). Let P = {(Πi, I−Πi)}i
be a collection of binary outcome projective measurements. Let D be a distribu-
tion. We also let Prev = {(I −Πi, Πi)}i. We say API is (ϵ, δ)-reverse almost
projective if the following holds. For any quantum state |ψ⟩, we apply API ϵ,δ
P,D
and API ϵ,δ
Prev,D in a row to |ψ⟩and obtain measurement outcomes x and y, respec-
tively. Then, Pr[|(1 −x) −y| ≤ϵ] ≥1 −δ.
We show that the measurement algorithm API ϵ,δ
P,D in Theorem 2.2 also sat-
isﬁes Deﬁnition 2.4. See the full version for the proof.
3
Deﬁnition of Quantum Watermarking
We introduce deﬁnitions for watermarking PRFs against quantum adversaries
in this section.
3.1
Syntax and Pseudorandomness
Deﬁnition 3.1 (Watermarking PRF). A watermarking PRF WMPRF for
the message space M := {0, 1}ℓm with domain Dom and range Ran is a tuple of
ﬁve algorithms (Setup, Gen, Eval, Mark, Extract).
Setup(1λ) →(pp, xk): The setup algorithm takes as input the security parameter
and outputs a public parameter pp and an extraction key xk.
Gen(pp) →(prfk, τ): The key generation algorithm takes as input the public
parameter pp and outputs a PRF key prfk and a public tag τ.
Eval(prfk, x) →y: The evaluation algorithm takes as input a PRF key prfk and
an input x ∈Dom and outputs y ∈Ran.
Mark(pp, prfk, m) →C: The mark algorithm takes as input the public parameter
pp, a PRF key prfk, and a message m ∈{0, 1}ℓm, and outputs a marked
evaluation circuit C.
Extract(xk, τ, C ′, ϵ) →m′: The extraction algorithm takes as input an extrac-
tion key xk, a tag τ, a quantum circuit with classical inputs and outputs
C ′ = (q, U), and a parameter ϵ, and outputs m′ where m′ ∈{0, 1}ℓm ∪
{unmarked}.
Evaluation Correctness: For any message m ∈{0, 1}ℓm, it holds that
Pr
⎡
⎢⎢⎣C(x) = Eval(prfk, x)

(pp, xk) ←Setup(1λ)
(prfk, τ) ←Gen(pp)
C ←Mark(pp, prfk, m)
x ←Dom
⎤
⎥⎥⎦≥1 −negl(λ).
Remark 3.1 (On Extraction Correctness). Usually, a watermarking PRF scheme
is required to satisfy extraction correctness that ensures that we can correctly
extract the embedded mark from an honestly marked circuit. However, as
observed by Quach et al. [QWZ18], if we require the extraction correctness to

502
F. Kitagawa and R. Nishimaki
hold for a randomly chosen PRF key, it is implied by unremovability deﬁned
below. Note that the unremovability deﬁned below considers a distinguisher as
a pirate circuit. However, it implies the extraction correctness since we can eas-
ily transform an honestly marked circuit into a successful distinguisher. Thus,
we do not explicitly require a watermarking PRF scheme to satisfy extraction
correctness in this work.
Remark 3.2 (On Public Marking). We consider only watermarking PRFs with
public marking as in Deﬁnition 3.1 since we can achieve public marking by
default. The reason is as follows. Suppose that we generate pp, xk, and a mark-
ing key mk at the setup. When we generate a PRF key and a public tag at
Gen, we can ﬁrst generate (pp′, xk′, mk′) ←Setup(1λ) from scratch (ignoring
the original (pp, xk, mk)) and set a PRF key 
prfk := (prfk′, mk′) and a public
tag τ := (pp′, xk′, τ ′) where (prfk′, τ ′) ←Gen(pp′). That is, anyone can generate
a marked circuit from 
prfk = (prfk′, mk′) by Mark(mk′, prfk′, m). Therefore, we
consider public marking by default in our model.
Discussion on Syntax. Deﬁnition 3.1 is a natural quantum variant of classical
watermarking PRFs except that the key generation algorithm outputs a public
tag τ, and the extraction algorithm uses it. Such a public tag is not used in previ-
ous works on watermarking PRFs [CHN+18,KW21,QWZ18,KW19,YAL+19].
A public tag should not harm watermarking PRF security. We justify using τ
as follows.
First, we need to obtain many pairs of input and output to extract
an embedded message from a marked PRF in almost all known (clas-
sical) watermarking constructions [CHN+18,BLW17,KW21,QWZ18,KW19,
YAL+19,GKM+19,Nis20]. This is because we must check whether a tested PRF
circuit outputs particular values for particular inputs which depends on the tar-
get PRF (such particular inputs are known as marked points). Suppose marked
points are ﬁxed and do not depend on a PRF that will be marked. In that case,
an adversary can easily remove an embedded message by destroying functionali-
ties at the ﬁxed marked points that could be revealed via a (non-target) marked
PRF that an adversary generated. Recall that we consider the public marking
setting. The attack was already observed by Cohen et al. [CHN+18].
Second, we consider a stronger adversary model than that in most previous
works as the deﬁnition of traceable PRFs by Goyal et al. [GKWW21]. An adver-
sary outputs a distinguisher-based pirate circuit in our security deﬁnition rather
than a pirate circuit that computes an entire output of a PRF. This is a reﬁned
and realistic model, as Goyal et al. [GKWW21] argued. In this model, we can-
not obtain a valid input-output pair from a pirate circuit anymore. Such a pair
is typical information related to a target PRF. Goyal et al. resolve this issue
by introducing a tracing key that is generated from a target PRF. Note that
parameters of watermarking (pp and xk) should not be generated from a PRF
since we consider many diﬀerent PRF keys in the watermarking PRF setting.
Thus, if we would like to achieve an extraction algorithm and the stronger
security notion simultaneously, an extraction algorithm should somehow take

Watermarking PRFs Against Quantum Adversaries
503
information related to a target PRF as input to correctly extract an embedded
message. In the weaker adversary model, an extraction algorithm can easily
obtain many valid input and output pairs by running a tested circuit many
times. However, in the stronger distinguisher-based pirate circuit model, a pirate
circuit outputs a single decision bit.
To resolve this issue, we introduce public tags. We think it is natural to have
information related to the original PRF key in an extraction algorithm. In reality,
we check a circuit when a user claims that her/his PRF key (PRF evaluation cir-
cuit) is illegally used. Thus, it is natural to expect we can use a user’s public tag
for extraction. This setting resembles watermarking for public-key cryptographic
primitives, where a user public key is available in an extraction algorithm. In
addition, public tags do not harm PRF security in our constructions. It is unclear
whether we can achieve unremovability in the stronger distinguisher-based model
without any syntax change (even in the classical setting).6
Extended Pseudorandomness. We consider extended weak pseudorandomness,
where weak pseudorandomness holds even if the adversary generates pp. This
notion is the counterpart of extended pseudorandomness by Quach et al.
[QWZ18], where pseudorandomness holds in the presence of the extraction ora-
cle. However, our pseudorandomness holds even against an authority unlike
extended pseudorandomness by Quach et al. since we allow adversaries to gen-
erate a public parameter.
Deﬁnition 3.2 (Extended Weak Pseudorandomness against Author-
ity). To deﬁne extended weak pseudorandomness for watermarking PRFs, we
deﬁne the game Expext-wprf
A,WMPRF(λ) as follows.
1. A ﬁrst sends pp to the challenger.
2. The challenger generates (prfk, τ) ←Gen(pp) and sends τ to A.
3. The challenger chooses coin ←{0, 1}. A can access to the following oracles.
Owprf: When this is invoked (no input), it returns (a, b) where a ←Dom and
b := Eval(prfk, a).
Ochall: When this is invoked (no input), it returns:
– (a, b) where a ←Dom and b := Eval(prfk, a) if coin = 0,
– (a, b) where a ←Dom and b ←Ran if coin = 1.
This oracle is invoked only once.
4. When A terminates with output coin′, the challenger outputs 1 if coin = coin′
and 0 otherwise.
6 Even if we consider the weaker adversary model, the same issue appears in the
quantum setting in the end. If we run a quantum circuit for an input and measure
the output, the measurement could irreversibly alter the quantum state and we lost
the functionality of the original quantum state. That is, there is no guarantee that
we can correctly check whether a tested quantum circuit is marked or not after
we obtain a single valid pair of input and output by running the circuit. However,
as we explained above, we want to obtain information related to a target PRF for
extraction. Thus, we need a public tag in the syntax in either case.

504
F. Kitagawa and R. Nishimaki
We say that WMPRF is extended weak pseudorandom if for every QPT A,
we have
Advext-wprf
A,WMPRF(λ) = 2
Pr

Expext-wprf
A,WMPRF(λ) = 1

−1
2
 = negl(λ).
3.2
Unremovability Against Quantum Adversaries
We deﬁne unremovability for watermarking PRFs against quantum adversaries.
We ﬁrst deﬁne quantum program with classical inputs and outputs and then
deﬁne unremovability.
Deﬁnition 3.3 (Quantum Program with Classical Inputs and Out-
puts [ALL+21]). A quantum program with classical inputs is a pair of quantum
state q and unitaries {U x}x∈[N] where [N] is the domain, such that the state of
the program evaluated on input x is equal to U xqU †
x. We measure the ﬁrst regis-
ter of U xqU †
x to obtain an output. We say that {U x}x∈[N] has a compact classical
description U when applying U x can be eﬃciently computed given U and x.
Deﬁnition 3.4 (Unremovability for private extraction). We consider the
public marking and secret extraction setting here. Let ϵ ≥0. We deﬁne the game
Exptnrmv
A,WMPRF(λ, ϵ) as follows.
1. The challenger generates (pp, xk) ←Setup(1λ) and gives pp to the adversary
A. A send m ∈{0, 1}ℓm to the challenger. The challenger generates (prfk, τ) ←
Gen(pp), computes C ←Mark(pp, prfk, m), and sends τ and C to A.
2. A can access to the following oracle.
Oext: On input τ ′ and a quantum circuit C, it returns Extract(xk, C, τ ′, ϵ).
3. Finally, the adversary outputs a “pirate” quantum circuit
, where
is a quantum program with classical inputs and outputs whose ﬁrst regis-
ter (i.e., output register) is C2 and U is a compact classical description of
{U x,y}x∈Dom,y∈Ran.
Let D be the following distribution.
D: Generate b ←{0, 1}, x ←Dom, and y0 ←Ran. Compute y1 ←Eval(prfk, x).
Output (b, x, yb).
We also let P = (P b,x,y, Qb,x,y)b,x,y be a collection of binary outcome projective
measurements, where
P b,x,y = U †
x,y |b⟩⟨b| U x,y
and
Qb,x,y = I −P b,x,y.
Moreover, we let MD = (P D, QD) be binary outcome POVMs, where
P D =

r∈R
1
|R|P D(r)
and
QD = I −P D.
Live: When applying the measurement ProjImp(MD) to q, we obtain a value p
such that p ≥1
2 + ϵ.

Watermarking PRFs Against Quantum Adversaries
505
GoodExt: When Computing
, it holds that m′ ̸= unmarked.
BadExt:
When
Computing
,
it
holds
that
m′
/∈
{m, unmarked}.
We say that WMPRF satisﬁes unremovability if for every ϵ > 0 and QPT A,
we have
Pr[BadExt] ≤negl(λ)
and
Pr[GoodExt] ≥Pr[Live] −negl(λ).
Intuitively, (P b,x,y, Qb,x,y) is a projective measurement that feeds (x, y) to
and checks whether the outcome is b or not (and then uncomputes). Then,
MD can be seen as POVMs that results in 0 with the probability that
can
correctly guess b from (x, yb) for (b, x, yb) generated randomly from D.
Remark 3.3 (On Attack Model). We check whether
correctly distinguishes a
real PRF value from a random value or not by applying ProjImp(MD) to q. This
attack model follows the reﬁned and more realistic attack model by Goyal et al.
[GKWW21]. The adversary outputs a pirate circuit that computes an entire
PRF value in all previous works except their work.
The distinguisher-based pirate circuit model is compatible with the (quan-
tum) pirate decoder model of traitor tracing. Thus, our attack model also follows
the attack model of quantum traitor tracing (the black box projection model)
by Zhandry [Zha20, Sect. 4.2].7
As in the traitor tracing setting [Zha20], ProjImp(MD) is ineﬃcient in gen-
eral. We can handle this issue as Zhandry did. We will use an approximate
version of ProjImp(MD) to achieve an eﬃcient reduction. In addition, we cannot
apply both ProjImp(MD) and Extract to
simultaneously. However, the condi-
tion Pr[GoodExt] ≥Pr[Live] −negl(λ) claims that an embedded mark cannot be
removed as long as the pirate circuit is alive. This ﬁts the spirit of watermarking.
See Zhandry’s paper [Zha20, Sect. 4] for more discussion on the models.
Remark 3.4 (On Selective Message). As we see in Deﬁnition 3.4, we consider
the selective setting for private extraction case, where A must send the target
message m to the challenger before A accesses to the oracle Oext and after pp
is given. This is the same setting as that by Quach et al. [QWZ18]. We can
consider the fully adaptive setting, where A can send the target message m after
it accesses to the oracle Oext, as Kim and Wu [KW19]. However, our privately
extractable watermarking PRF satisﬁes only selective security. Thus, we write
only the selective variant for the private extraction case.
Deﬁnition 3.5 (Unremovability for Public Extraction). This is the same
as Deﬁnition 3.4 except we use the game Exppub-ext-nrmv
A,WMPRF
(λ, ϵ) deﬁned in the same
way as Exptnrmv
A,WMPRF(λ, ϵ) except the following diﬀerences.
7 In the watermarking setting, an extraction algorithm can take the description of a
pirate circuit as input (corresponding to the software decoder model [Zha20, Sect.
4.2]), unlike the black-box tracing model of traitor tracing. However, we use a pirate
circuit in the black box way for our extraction algorithms. Thus, we follow the black
box projection model by Zhandry [Zha20].

506
F. Kitagawa and R. Nishimaki
– In item 1, A is given xk together with pp.
– Item 2 is removed.
4
Deﬁnition of Extraction-Less Watermarking
We introduce the notion of extraction-less watermarking PRF as an intermediate
primitive towards watermarking PRFs secure against quantum adversaries.
4.1
Syntax and Pseudorandomness
Deﬁnition 4.1 (Extraction-Less Watermarking PRF). An extraction-less
watermarking PRF WMPRF for the message space {0, 1}ℓm with domain Dom
and range Ran is a tuple of ﬁve algorithms (Setup, Gen, Eval, Mark, Sim), where
the ﬁrst four algorithms have the same input/output behavior as those deﬁned in
Deﬁnition 3.1 and Sim has the following input/output behavior.
Sim(xk, τ, i) →(γ, x, y):The simulation algorithm Sim takes as input the extrac-
tion key xk, a tag τ, and an index i, and outputs a tuple (γ, x, y).
Evaluation Correctness: It is deﬁned in exactly the same way as the evalua-
tion correctness for watermarking PRF deﬁned in Deﬁnition 3.1.
Extended Pseudorandomness. Extended pseudorandomness for extraction-less
watermarking PRF is deﬁned in exactly the same way as that for watermarking
PRF, that is Deﬁnition 3.2.
4.2
Simulatability for Mark-Dependent Distributions (SIM-MDD
Security)
We introduce the security notion for extraction-less watermarking PRF that
we call simulatability for mark-dependent distributions. Let D and Drev be the
following distributions.
D: Generate b ←{0, 1}, x ←Dom, and y0 ←Ran. Compute y1 ←Eval(prfk, x).
Output (b, x, yb).
Drev: Generate (b, x, y) ←D. Output (1 ⊕b, x, y).
Namely, D is the distribution that outputs a random value if the ﬁrst bit b = 0
and a PRF evaluation if the ﬁrst bit b = 1, and Drev is its opposite (i.e., a PRF
evaluation if b = 0 and a random value if b = 1). SIM-MDD security is a security
notion that guarantees that an adversary given C ←Mark(mk, prfk, m) cannot
distinguish an output of Sim(xk, τ, i) from that of D if m[i] = 0 and from that of
Drev if m[i] = 1.
Deﬁnition 4.2 (SIM-MDD
Security
with
Private
Simulation). To
deﬁne
SIM-MDD
security
with
private
simulation,
we
deﬁne
the
game
Exptsim-mdd
i∗,A,WMPRF(λ) as follows, where i∗∈[ℓm].

Watermarking PRFs Against Quantum Adversaries
507
1. The challenger generates (pp, xk) ←Setup(1λ) and sends pp to A. A sends
m ∈{0, 1}ℓm to the challenger. The challenger generates (prfk, τ) ←Gen(pp)
and computes C ←Mark(mk, prfk, m). The challenger sends τ and C to A.
2. A can access to the following oracle.
Osim: On input τ ′ and i′ ∈[ℓm], it returns Sim(xk, τ ′, i′).
3. Let Dreal,i∗be the following distribution. Note that Dreal,i∗is identical with
D if m[i∗] = 0 and with Drev if m[i∗] = 1.
Dreal,i∗: Generate γ ←{0, 1} and x ←Dom. Then, if γ = m[i∗], generate
y ←Ran, and otherwise, compute y ←Eval(prfk, x). Output (γ, x, y).
The challenger generates coin ←{0, 1}. If coin = 0, the challenger sam-
ples (γ, x, y) ←Dreal,i∗. If coin = 1, the challenger generates (γ, x, y) ←
Sim(xk, τ, i∗). The challenger sends (γ, x, y) to A.
4. When A terminates with output coin′, the challenger outputs 1 if coin = coin′
and 0 otherwise.
Note that A is not allowed to access to Osim after A is given (γ, x, y).
We say that WMPRF is SIM-MDD secure if for every i∗∈[ℓm] and QPT A,
we have
Advsim-mdd
i∗,A,WMPRF(λ) = 2
Pr

Exptsim-mdd
i∗,A,WMPRF(λ) = 1

−1
2
 = negl(λ).
We consider the selective setting above as unremovability for private extrac-
tion in Deﬁnition 3.4 since we use SIM-MDD security with private simulation to
achieve unremovability for private simulation.
Remark 4.1 (On Multi Challenge Security). We can prove that the above deﬁ-
nition implies the multi-challenge variant where polynomially many outputs of
Sim(xk, τ, i∗) are required to be indistinguishable from those of Dreal,i∗. This is
done by hybrid arguments where outputs of Sim(xk, τ, i∗) are simulated using
Osim and those of Dreal,i∗are simulated using C. To apply Theorem 2.3, we
need the multi challenge variant. However, we consider the single challenge vari-
ant due to the implication above. A similar remark is applied to the variants of
SIM-MDD security introduced below.
SIM-MDD Security with Private Simulation Under the API Oracle. Let the API
oracle be an oracle that is given (ϵ, δ, τ ′, i′) and a quantum state q, and returns
the result of API ϵ,δ
P,Dτ′,i′(q) and the post measurement state, where P is deﬁned
in the same way as that in Deﬁnition 3.4 and Dτ ′,i′ be the distribution that
outputs randomly generated (γ, x, y) ←Sim(xk, τ ′, i′). The API oracle cannot be
simulated using the simulation oracle Osim since we need superposition of out-
puts of Sim to compute API ϵ,δ
P,Dτ′,i′(q). When constructing watermarking PRFs
with private simulation from extraction-less watermarking PRFs, the underlying
extraction-less watermarking PRF scheme needs to satisfy SIM-MDD security
with private simulation under the API oracle that we call QSIM-MDD security
with private simulation. The reason is as follows. In the security analysis of the

508
F. Kitagawa and R. Nishimaki
construction, the indistinguishability guarantee provided by SIM-MDD security
needs to hold for an adversary against the resulting watermarking scheme who
can access the extraction oracle. This means that it also needs to hold for an
adversary who can access the API oracle since API is repeatedly invoked in the
extraction algorithm of the resulting scheme.
Fortunately, as we will see, we can generically convert an extraction-less
watermarking PRF scheme satisfying SIM-MDD security with private simu-
lation into one satisfying QSIM-MDD security with private simulation, using
QPRFs. Thus, when realizing an extraction-less watermarking PRF scheme
as an intermediate step towards privately extractable watermarking PRFs, we
can concentrate on realizing one satisfying SIM-MDD security with private
simulation.
Remark 4.2. There is a similar issue in the traitor tracing setting. If PLBE is a
secret-key based one, we need a counterpart of QSIM-MDD in secret-key based
PLBE to achieve traitor tracing with a secret tracing algorithm against quantum
adversaries by using Zhandry’s framework [Zha20]. Note that Zhandry focuses
on public-key based PLBE in his work [Zha20].
Deﬁnition 4.3 (QSIM-MDD Security with Private Simulation). Let
Dτ,i be a distribution deﬁned as follows.
Dτ,i: Output (γ, x, y) ←Sim(xk, τ, i).
Then, we deﬁne the game Expq-sim-mdd
i∗,A,WMPRF(λ) in the same way as Expsim-mdd
i∗,A,WMPRF(λ)
except that in addition to Osim, A can access to the following oracle in the step
2.
Oapi: On input (ϵ, δ, τ ′, i′) and a quantum state q, it returns the result of
API ϵ,δ
P,Dτ′,i′(q) and the post measurement state, where P is deﬁned in the same
way as that in Deﬁnition 3.4.
We say that WMPRF is QSIM-MDD secure with private simulation if for
every i∗∈[ℓm] and QPT A, we have
Advq-sim-mdd
i∗,A,WMPRF(λ) = 2
Pr

Expq-sim-mdd
i∗,A,WMPRF(λ) = 1

−1
2
 = negl(λ).
We have the following theorem.
Theorem 4.1. Assume there exists an extraction-less watermarking PRF
scheme satisfying SIM-MDD security with private simulation and a QPRF.
Then, there exists an extraction-less watermarking PRF scheme satisfying
QSIM-MDD security with private simulation.
We prove this theorem in the full version.
Deﬁnition 4.4 (SIM-MDD Security with Public Simulation). We deﬁne
the game Expsim-mdd-pub
i∗,A,WMPRF(λ) in the same way as Exptsim-mdd
i∗,A,WMPRF(λ) except the fol-
lowing diﬀerences, where i∗∈[ℓm].

Watermarking PRFs Against Quantum Adversaries
509
– In item 1, A is given xk together with pp.
– Item 2 is removed.
We say that WMPRF satisﬁes SIM-MDD security with public simulation if
for every i∗∈[ℓm] and QPT A, we have
Advsim-mdd-pub
i∗,A,WMPRF(λ) = 2
Pr

Expsim-mdd-pub
i∗,A,WMPRF(λ) = 1

−1
2
 = negl(λ).
5
Watermarking PRF from Extraction-Less
Watermarking PRF
We show how to construct watermarking PRF secure against quantum adver-
saries from extraction-less watermarking PRF.
Let ELWMPRF = (Setup, Gen, Eval, Mark, Sim) be an extraction-less water-
marking PRF scheme whose message space is {0, 1}ℓm+1. We construct a water-
marking
PRF
scheme
WMPRF = (WM.Setup, WM.Gen, WM.Eval, WM.Mark,
Extract) whose message space is {0, 1}ℓm as follows. We use Setup, Gen, and Eval
as WM.Setup, WM.Gen, and WM.Eval, respectively. Thus, the domain and range
of WMPRF are the same as those of ELWMPRF. Also, we construct WM.Mark and
Extract as follows.
WM.Mark(pp, prfk, m):
– Output C ←Mark(pp, prfk, m∥0).
Extract(xk, C, τ, ϵ):
– Let ϵ′ = ϵ/4(ℓm + 1) and δ′ = 2−λ.
– Parse (q, U) ←C.
– Let P be deﬁned in the same way as that in Deﬁnition 3.4 and Dτ,i be
the following distribution for every i ∈[ℓm + 1].
Dτ,i: Output (γ, x, y) ←Sim(xk, τ, i).
– Compute pℓm+1 ←API ϵ′,δ′
P,Dτ,ℓm+1(q). If pℓm+1 < 1
2+ϵ−4ϵ′, return unmarked.
Otherwise, letting q0 be the post-measurement state, go to the next step.
– For all i ∈[ℓm], do the following.
1. Compute pi ←API ϵ′,δ′
P,Dτ,i(qi−1). Let qi be the post-measurement state.
2. If pi > 1
2 + ϵ −4(i + 1)ϵ′, set m′
i = 0. If pi < 1
2 −ϵ + 4(i + 1)ϵ′, set
m′
i = 1. Otherwise, exit the loop and output m′ = 0ℓm.
– Output m′ = m′
1∥· · · ∥m′
ℓm.
We have the following theorems.
Theorem 5.1. If ELWMPRF satisﬁes extended weak pseudorandomness against
authority, then so does WMPRF.
Theorem 5.2. If ELWMPRF is an extraction-less watermarking PRF that satis-
ﬁes QSIM-MDD security, WMPRF is a privately extractable watermarking PRF.

510
F. Kitagawa and R. Nishimaki
Theorem 5.3. If ELWMPRF is an extraction-less watermarking PRF that satis-
ﬁes SIM-MDD security with public simulation, WMPRF is a publicly extractable
watermarking PRF.
It is clear that Theorem 5.1 holds since the evaluation algorithm of WMPRF
is the same as that of ELWMPRF and extended weak pseudorandomness is insen-
sitive to how the marking and extraction algorithms are deﬁned. Thus, we omit
a formal proof.
The proofs of Theorem 5.2 and 5.3 are almost the same. Thus, we only
provide the proof for the former, and omit the proof for the latter.
Proof of Theorem 5.2. Let ϵ > 0. Let A be a QPT adversary attacking the
unremovability of WMPRF. The description of Exptnrmv
A,WMPRF(λ, ϵ) is as follows.
1. The challenger generates (pp, xk) ←Setup(1λ) and gives pp to the adversary
A. A sends m ∈{0, 1}ℓm to the challenger. The challenger generates (prfk, τ) ←
Gen(pp), computes C ←Mark(pp, prfk, m∥0), and sends C to A.
2. A can access to the following oracle.
Oext.On input τ ′ and a quantum circuit C, it returns Extract(xk, C, τ ′, ϵ).
3. Finally, the adversary outputs a quantum circuit
We deﬁne D, P, MD, and the three events Live, GoodExt, and BadExt in the
same way as Deﬁnition 3.4.
The proof of Pr[GoodExt] ≥Pr[Live] −negl(λ). Extract outputs unmarked if and
only if pℓ+1 < 1
2 + ϵ −4ϵ′, that is we have Pr[GoodExt] = Pr[pℓ+1 ≥1
2 + ϵ −4ϵ′].
Let p the probability obtained by applying ProjImp(MD) to q. Then, we have
Pr[Live] = Pr[p ≥1
2 + ϵ]. Let p be the outcome obtained if we apply API ϵ′,δ′
P,D to
q. From the property of API, we have
Pr[Live] = Pr

p ≥1
2 + ϵ

≤Pr

p ≥1
2 + ϵ −ϵ′

+ negl(λ).
D and Dτ,ℓm+1 are computationally indistinguishable from the QSIM-MDD secu-
rity of ELWMPRF since outputs of Sim(xk, τ, i) is indistinguishable from those of
D if m[i] = 0. This indistinguishability holds even under the existence of Oapi.
Then, from Theorem 2.3, we have
Pr

p ≥1
2 + ϵ −ϵ′

≤Pr

pℓ+1 ≥1
2 + ϵ −4ϵ′

+ negl(λ) = Pr[GoodExt] + negl(λ).
By combining the above two equations, we obtain Pr[GoodExt] ≥Pr[Live] −
negl(λ).
The reason D and Dτ,ℓ+1 need to be computationally indistinguishable under
the existence of Oapi to apply Theorem 2.3 is as follows. In this application of
Theorem 2.3, the quantum state appeared in the statement of it is set as q
contained in the quantum circuit C output by A. Then, Theorem 2.3 (implic-
itly) requires that D and Dτ,ℓ+1 be indistinguishable for distinguishers who can

Watermarking PRFs Against Quantum Adversaries
511
construct q. To construct q, we need to execute A who can access to Oext in
which API is repeatedly executed. This is the reason D and Dτ,ℓ+1 need to be
indistinguishable under the existence of Oapi.
The proof of Pr[BadExt] ≤negl(λ). We deﬁne the event BadExti as follows for
every i ∈[ℓm].
BadExti:When Running
, the following conditions hold.
– pℓ+1 ≥1
2 + ϵ −4ϵ′ holds.
– m′
j = mj holds for every j ∈[i −1].
– Extract exits the i-th loop or m′
i ̸= mi holds.
Then, we have Pr[BadExt] ≤
i∈[ℓ] Pr[BadExti]. Below, we estimate Pr[BadExti].
We ﬁrst consider the case of mi−1 = 0 and mi = 0. Assume m′
i−1 = mi−1 = 0
holds. Then, we have pi−1 > 1
2 + ϵ −4iϵ′. Let p′
i−1 ←API ϵ′,δ′
P,Dτ,i−1(qi−1). From,
the almost-projective property of API, we have
Pr

p′
i−1 > 1
2 + ϵ −4iϵ′ −ϵ′

≥1 −δ′.
When mi−1 = 0 and mi = 0, Dτ,i−1 and Dτ,i are computationally indistinguish-
able since both of them are computationally indistinguishable from D by the
QSIM-MDD security of ELWMPRF. This indistinguishability holds under the
existence of Oapi. Thus, from Theorem 2.3, we have
1 −δ′ ≤Pr

p′
i−1 > 1
2 + ϵ −(4i + 1)ϵ′

≤Pr

pi > 1
2 + ϵ −4(i + 1)ϵ′

+ negl(λ).
This means that Pr[BadExti] = negl(λ) in this case. Note that the reason the
indistinguishability of Dτ,i−1 and Dτ,i needs to hold under Oapi is that Theorem
2.3 requires it hold for distinguishers who can construct qi−1.
Next, we consider the case of mi−1 = 0 and mi = 1. Assume m′
i−1 = mi−1 = 0
holds. Then, we have pi−1 > 1
2+ϵ−4iϵ′. We then deﬁne an additional distribution
Drev
τ,i as follows.
Drev
τ,i : Generate (γ, x, y) ←Sim(xk, τ, i). Output (1 ⊕γ, x, y).
That is, the ﬁrst bit of the output is ﬂipped from Dτ,i. Then, for any random
coin r, we have (P Drev
τ,i(r), QDrev
τ,i(r)) = (QDτ,i(r), P Dτ,i(r)). This is because we have
Qb,x,y = I −P b,x,y = P 1⊕b,x,y for any tuple (b, x, y). Therefore, API ϵ′,δ′
P,Drev
τ,i−1 is
exactly the same process as API ϵ′,δ′
Prev,Dτ,i−1. Let p′
i−1 ←API ϵ′,δ′
P,Drev
τ,i−1(qi−1). From,
the reverse-almost-projective property of API, we have
Pr

p′
i−1 < 1
2 −ϵ + 4iϵ′ + ϵ′

≥1 −δ′.
When mi−1 = 0 and mi = 1, Drev
τ,i−1 and Dτ,i are computationally indistinguish-
able since both of them are computationally indistinguishable from the following
distribution Drev by the QSIM-MDD security of ELWMPRF.

512
F. Kitagawa and R. Nishimaki
Drev: Generate (γ, x, y) ←D. Output (1 ⊕γ, x, y).
This indistinguishability holds under the existence of Oapi. Thus, from Theorem
2.3, we have
1 −δ′ ≤Pr

p′
i−1 < 1
2 −ϵ + (4i + 1)ϵ′

≤Pr

pi < 1
2 −ϵ + 4(i + 1)ϵ′

+ negl(λ).
This means that Pr[BadExti] = negl(λ) also in this case. Note that the reason the
indistinguishability of Drev
τ,i−1 and Dτ,i needs to hold under Oapi is that Theorem
2.3 requires it hold for distinguishers who can construct qi−1.
Similarly, we can prove that Pr[BadExti] = negl(λ) holds in the case of
(mi−1, mi) = (1, 0) and (mi−1, mi) = (1, 1).
Overall, we see that Pr[BadExt] = negl(λ) holds in all cases.
■
6
Extraction-Less Watermarking PRF from LWE
We present an extraction-less watermarking PRF, denoted by PRFcprf, whose
message space is {0, 1}ℓm with domain {0, 1}ℓin and range {0, 1}ℓout. We use the
following tools, which can be instantiated with the QLWE assumption:
– Private CPRF CPRF
=
(CPRF.Setup, CPRF.Eval, CPRF.Constrain, CPRF.
CEval). For ease of notation, we denote CPRF evaluation circuit CPRF.Eval
(msk, ·) and constrained evaluation circuits CPRF.CEval(skf, ·) by G
:
{0, 1}ℓin →{0, 1}ℓout and G/∈V : {0, 1}ℓin →{0, 1}ℓout, respectively, where x ∈V
iﬀf(x) = 1.
– SKE scheme SKE = (SKE.Gen, SKE.Enc, SKE.Dec). The plaintext space and
ciphertext space of SKE are {0, 1}ℓske and {0, 1}ℓin, respectively, where ℓske =
log ℓm + 1.
– PKE scheme PKE = (Gen, Enc, Dec). The plaintext space of PKE is {0, 1}2λ.
Construction Overview. We already explained the high-level idea for how to real-
ize extraction-less watermarking PRFs in Sect. 1.3. However, the construction
of PRFcprf requires some additional eﬀorts. Thus, before providing the actual
construction, we provide a high-level overview of PRFcprf.
Recall that letting C ←Mark(pp, prfk, m) and (γ∗, x∗, y∗) ←Sim(xk, τ, i∗),
we have to design Sim and C so that
– If γ = m[i∗], C(x∗) outputs a value diﬀerent from y∗.
– If γ ̸= m[i∗], C(x∗) outputs y∗.
In the token-based construction idea, we achieve these conditions by setting x∗
as an encryption of y∗∥i∗∥γ∗and designing C as a token such that it outputs y∗
if the input is decryptable and γ∗̸= m[i∗] holds for the decrypted value y∗∥i∗∥γ∗,
and otherwise behaves as the original evaluation circuit. However, in PRFcprf, we
use a constrained evaluation circuit of CPRF as C, and thus we cannot program

Watermarking PRFs Against Quantum Adversaries
513
output values for speciﬁc inputs. Intuitively, it seems that Sim needs to use the
original PRF key prfk to achieve the above two conditions.
To solve the issue, we adopt the idea used by Quach et al. [QWZ18]. In
PRFcprf, the setup algorithm Setup generates (pk, sk) ←Gen(1λ) of PKE, and
sets pp = pk and xk = sk. Then, the PRF key generation algorithm is given
pk, generates G ←CPRF.Setup(1λ, 1κ) along with ske.k ←SKE.Gen(1λ), and
sets the public tag τ as an encryption of (G, ske.k) under pk. The evaluation
algorithm of PRFcprf is simply that of CPRF.
Now, we explain how to design Sim and C ←Mark(pp, prfk, m) to satisfy
the above two conditions. Given xk = sk, τ = Enc(pk, prfk) and i, Sim is able
to extract prfk = (G, ske.k). Then, Sim generates γ ←{0, 1} and sets x ←
SKE.Enc(ske.k, i∥γ) and y ←G(x). We set C as a constrained version of G for a
circuit D that outputs 1 if the input x is decryptable by ske.k and γ = m[i] holds
for decrypted value i∥γ, and otherwise outputs 0. For an input x, the constrained
version of G outputs the correct output G(x) if and only if D(x) = 0. We can
check that PRFcprf satisﬁes the above two conditions.
The above construction does not satisfy extended weak pseudorandomness
against authority since the authority can extract the original CPRF key G by
xk = sk. However, this problem can be ﬁxed by constraining G. We see that
Sim needs to evaluate G for valid ciphertexts of SKE. Thus, to implement the
above mechanism, it is suﬃcient to set the public tag τ as an encryption of ske.k
and a constrained version of G for a circuit Dauth that output 0 if and only if
the input is decryptable by ske.k. Then, the authority can only extract such a
constrained key. By requiring sparseness for SKE, the constrained key cannot be
used to break the pseudorandomness of PRFcprf for random inputs. This means
that PRFcprf satisﬁes extended weak pseudorandomness against an authority.
Note that we only need a single-key CPRF for PRFcprf since either a user or the
authority (not both) is a malicious entity in security games.
The description of PRFcprf is as follows.
Setup(1λ):
– Generate (pk, sk) ←Gen(1λ).
– Output (pp, xk) := (pk, sk).
Gen(pp):
– Parse pp = pk.
– Generate G ←CPRF.Setup(1λ, 1κ). In our construction, κ is the size of
circuit D[ske.k, m] described in Fig. 2, which depends on ℓm (and λ).
– Generate ske.k ←SKE.Gen(1λ).
– Construct a circuit Dauth[ske.k] described in Fig. 1.
– Compute G/∈Vauth
:=
CPRF.Constrain(G, Dauth[ske.k]), where Vauth
⊂
{0, 1}ℓin is a set such that x ∈Vauth iﬀDauth[ske.k](x) = 1.
– Output prfk := (G, ske.k) and τ ←Enc(pk, (G/∈Vauth, ske.k)).
Eval(prfk, x ∈{0, 1}ℓin): Recall that G is a keyed CPRF evaluation circuit.
– Parse prfk = (G, ske.k).
– Output y := G(x).
Mark(pp, prfk, m):

514
F. Kitagawa and R. Nishimaki
– Parse pp = pk and prfk = (G, ske.k).
– Construct a circuit D[ske.k, m] described in Fig. 2.
– Compute G/∈V ←CPRF.Constrain(G, D[ske.k, m]), where V ⊂{0, 1}ℓin is a
set such that x ∈V iﬀD[ske.k, m](x) = 1.
– Output C = G/∈V.
Sim(xk, τ, i):
– Parse xk = sk.
– Compute (G/∈Vauth, ske.k) ←Dec(sk, τ).
– Choose γ ←{0, 1}.
– Compute x ←SKE.Enc(ske.k, i∥γ) and y ←G/∈Vauth(x).
– Output (γ, x, y).
Fig. 1. The description of Dauth
Fig. 2. The description of D
The evaluation correctness of PRFcprf follows from the sparseness of SKE
and the correctness of CPRF. For the security of PRFcprf, we have the following
theorems.
Theorem 6.1. SKE is a secure SKE scheme with pseudorandom ciphertext,
CPRF is a selectively single-key private CPRF, PKE is a CCA secure PKE
scheme, then PRFcprf is an extraction-less watermarking PRF satisfying SIM-
MDD security.
Theorem 6.2. If CPRF is a selective single-key private CPRF, PRFcprf satisﬁes
extended weak pseudorandomness.
We prove Theorems 6.1 and 6.2 in the full version.

Watermarking PRFs Against Quantum Adversaries
515
7
Extraction-Less Watermarking PRF with Public
Simulation from IO
We construct an extraction-less watermarking PRF satisfying SIM-MDD secu-
rity with public simulation. In the construction, we use puncturable encryption
(PE) [CHN+18]. We provide the deﬁnition of PE in the full version.
We describe our extraction-less watermarking PRF PRFio for message space
{0, 1}ℓm with domain {0, 1}ℓin and range {0, 1}ℓout below. We use the following
tools:
– PPRF PRF = PRF.(Gen, Eval, Puncture). We denote a PRF evaluation circuit
PRF.Evalprfk(·) by F : {0, 1}ℓin →{0, 1}ℓout, a PRF evaluation circuit with
punctured key PRF.Evalprfk̸=x(·) by F̸=x (that is, we omit prfk and simply
write F(·) instead of Fprfk(·)) for ease of notations.
– PE scheme PE = PE.(Gen, Puncture, Enc, Dec). The plaintext and ciphertext
space of PE are {0, 1}ℓpt and {0, 1}ℓct, respectively, where ℓpt = ℓ+ log ℓm + 1
and ℓin := ℓct (ℓct = poly(ℓ, log ℓm)).
– Indistinguishability obfuscator iO.
– PRG PRG : {0, 1}ℓ→{0, 1}ℓout.
Setup(1λ):
– Output (pp, xk) := (⊥, ⊥).
Gen(pp):
– Parse pp = ⊥.
– Compute F ←PRF.Gen(1λ).
– Generate (pe.ek, pe.dk) ←PE.Gen(1λ).
– Output prfk := (F, pe.dk) and τ := pe.ek.
Eval(prfk, x ∈{0, 1}ℓin):
– Parse prfk = (F, pe.dk).
– Compute and output y ←F(x).
Mark(pp, prfk, m ∈{0, 1}ℓm):
– Parse pp = ⊥and prfk = (F, pe.dk).
– Construct a circuit D[F, pe.dk, m] described in Fig. 3.
– Compute and output C := iO(D[F, pe.dk, m]).
Sim(xk, τ, i):
– Parse xk = ⊥and τ = pe.ek.
– Choose γ ←{0, 1} and s ←{0, 1}ℓ.
– Compute y := PRG(s).
– Compute x ←PE.Enc(pe.ek, s∥i∥γ).
– Output (γ, x, y)
The size of the circuit D is appropriately padded to be the maximum size of all
modiﬁed circuits, which will appear in the security proof.

516
F. Kitagawa and R. Nishimaki
Fig. 3. The description of D
The evaluation correctness of PRFio immediately follows from the sparseness
of PE and the functionality of iO.8 PRFio trivially satisﬁes pseudorandomness
(against an authority) since Setup outputs nothing, τ is a public key pe.ek, and
Eval is independent of (pe.ek, pe.dk) (pe.dk is not used in Eval). Moreover, we
have the following theorem.
Theorem 7.1. If PRF is a secure PPRF, PRG is a secure PRG, PE is a secure
PE with strong ciphertext pseudorandomness, and iO is a secure IO, then PRFio
is an extraction-less watermarking PRF satisfying SIM-MDD security with public
simulation.
We prove Theorem 7.1 in the full version.
References
[AL21] Ananth, P., La Placa, R.L.: Secure software leasing. In EUROCRYPT
2021, Part II, pp. 501–530 (2021)
[ALL+21] Aaronson, S., Liu, J., Liu, Q., Zhandry, M., Zhang, R.: New approaches
for quantum copy-protection. In: CRYPTO 2021, Part I, pp. 526–555.
Virtual Event (2021)
[ARU14] Ambainis, A., Rosmanis, A., Unruh, D.: Quantum attacks on classical
proof systems: the hardness of quantum rewinding. In: 55th FOCS, pp.
474–483 (2014)
[BDF+11] Boneh, D., Dagdelen, ¨O., Fischlin, M., Lehmann, A., Schaﬀner, C.,
Zhandry, M.: Random oracles in a quantum world. In: ASIACRYPT, pp.
41–69 (2011)
[BGI+12] Barak, B., et al.: On the (IM) possibility of obfuscating programs. J. ACM
59(2), 6:1–6:48 (2012)
[BLW17] Boneh, D., Lewi, K., Wu, D.J.: Constraining pseudorandom functions
privately. In: PKC 2017, Part II, pp. 494–524 (2017)
8 In fact, PRFio satisﬁes a stronger evaluation correctness than one written in Deﬁnition
4.1. The evaluation correctness holds even for any PRF key prfk and input x ∈Dom
like the statistical correctness by Cohen et al. [CHN+18].

Watermarking PRFs Against Quantum Adversaries
517
[BSW06] Boneh, D., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Fully collusion resistant traitor tracing
with short Ciphertexts and private keys. In: EUROCRYPT 2006, pp.
573–592 (2006)
[CFN94] Chor, B., Fiat, A., Naor, M.: Tracing traitors. In: CRYPTO 1994, pp.
257–270 (1994)
[CHN+18] Cohen, A., Holmgren, J., Nishimaki, R., Vaikuntanathan, V., Wichs, D.:
Watermarking cryptographic capabilities. SIAM J. Comput. 47(6), 2157–
2202 (2018)
[CMSZ21] Chiesa, A., Ma, F., Spooner, N., Zhandry, M.: Post-quantum succinct
arguments: breaking the quantum rewinding barrier. In: FOCS 2021
(2021)
[GKM+19] Goyal, R., Kim, S., Manohar, N., Waters, B., Wu, D.J.: Watermarking
public-key cryptographic primitives. In: CRYPTO 2019, Part III, pp. 367–
398 (2019)
[GKWW21] Goyal, R., Kim, S., Waters, B., Wu, D.J.: Beyond software watermarking:
traitor-tracing for pseudorandom functions. In: Asiacrypt 2021, LNCS,
Springer Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-92062-3
[HMW07] Hopper, N., Molnar, D., Wagner, D.: From weak to strong watermarking.
In: TCC 2007, pp. 362–382 (2007)
[KNY21] Kitagawa, F., Nishimaki, R., Yamakawa, T.: Secure software leasing from
standard assumptions. In: Nissim, K., Waters, B. (eds.) TCC 2021. LNCS,
vol. 13042, pp. 31–61. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-90459-3 2
[KW19] Kim, S., Wu, D.J.: Watermarking PRFs from lattices: stronger security
via extractable PRFs. In: CRYPTO 2019, Part III, pp. 335–366 (2019)
[KW21] Kim, S., Wu, D.J.: Watermarking cryptographic functionalities from stan-
dard lattice assumptions. J. Cryptol. 34(3), 28 (2021)
[Nis13] Nishimaki, R.: How to watermark cryptographic functions. In: EURO-
CRYPT 2013, pp. 111–125 (2013)
[Nis19] Nishimaki, R.: How to watermark cryptographic functions by bilinear
maps. IEICE Trans. 102 A(1):99–113 (2019)
[Nis20] Nishimaki, R.: Equipping public-key cryptographic primitives with water-
marking (or: a hole is to watermark). In: TCC 2020, Part I, pp. 179–209
(2020)
[NSS99] Naccache, D., Shamir, A., Stern, J.P.: How to copyright a function? In:
PKC 1999, pp. 188–196 (1999)
[QWZ18] Quach, W., Wichs, D., Zirdelis, G.: Watermarking PRFs under standard
assumptions: public marking and security with extraction queries. In:
TCC 2018, Part II, pp. 669–698 (2018)
[Reg09] Regev, O.: On lattices, learning with errors, random linear codes, and
cryptography. J. ACM 56(6), 34:1–34:40 (2009)
[Unr12] Unruh, D.: Quantum proofs of knowledge. In: EUROCRYPT 2012, pp.
135–152 (2012)
[Wat09] Watrous, J.: Zero-knowledge against quantum attacks. SIAM J. Comput.
39(1), 25–58 (2009)
[YAL+19] Yang, R., Au, M.H., Lai, J., Xu, Q., Yu, Z.: Collusion resistant watermark-
ing schemes for cryptographic functionalities. In: ASIACRYPT 2019, Part
I, pp. 371–398 (2019)
[YAYX20] Yang, R., Au, M.H., Yu, Z., Xu, Q.: Collusion resistant watermarkable
PRFs from standard assumptions. In: CRYPTO 2020, Part I, pp. 590–
620 (2020)

518
F. Kitagawa and R. Nishimaki
[YF11] Yoshida, M., Fujiwara, T.: Toward digital watermarking for cryptographic
data. IEICE Trans. 94-A(1):270–272 (2011)
[Zha12a] Zhandry, M.: How to construct quantum random functions. In: 53rd
FOCS, pp. 679–687 (2012)
[Zha12b] Zhandry, M.: Secure identity-based encryption in the quantum random
oracle model. In: CRYPTO 2012, pp. 758–775 (2012)
[Zha19] Zhandry, M.: How to record quantum queries, and applications to quan-
tum indiﬀerentiability. In: CRYPTO 2019, Part II, pp. 239–268 (2019)
[Zha20] Zhandry, M.: Schr¨odinger’s pirate: how to trace a quantum decoder. In:
TCC 2020, Part III, pp. 61–91 (2020)

