Witness-Succinct Universally-Composable
SNARKs
Chaya Ganesh1
, Yashvanth Kondi2, Claudio Orlandi2
, Mahak Pancholi2,
Akira Takahashi3(B)
, and Daniel Tschudi4
1 Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, India
chaya@iisc.ac.in
2 Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark
{ykondi,orlandi,mahakp}@cs.au.dk
3 University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland
takahashi.akira.58s@gmail.com
4 Concordium, Zug, Switzerland
dt@concordium.com
Abstract. Zero-knowledge Succinct Non-interactive ARguments of
Knowledge (zkSNARKs) are becoming an increasingly fundamental tool
in many real-world applications where the proof compactness is of
the utmost importance, including blockchains. A proof of security for
SNARKs in the Universal Composability (UC) framework (Canetti,
FOCS’01) would rule out devastating malleability attacks. To retain
security of SNARKs in the UC model, one must show their simulation-
extractability such that the knowledge extractor is both black-box and
straight-line, which would imply that proofs generated by honest provers
are non-malleable. However, existing simulation-extractability results on
SNARKs either lack some of these properties, or alternatively have to
sacriﬁce witness succinctness to prove UC security.
In this paper, we provide a compiler lifting any simulation-extractable
NIZKAoK into a UC-secure one in the global random oracle model,
importantly, while preserving the same level of witness succinctness.
Combining this with existing zkSNARKs, we achieve, to the best of our
knowledge, the ﬁrst zkSNARKs simultaneously achieving UC-security
and constant sized proofs.
The authors would like to thank abhi shelat for helpful discussions about an early
version of this work. We thank anonymous reviewers of Eurocrypt 2023 for valuable
comments and suggestions.
The work described in this paper has received funding from: the Concordium Blockhain
Research Center, Aarhus University, Denmark; the Carlsberg Foundation under the
Semper Ardens Research Project CF18-112 (BCM); the European Research Council
(ERC) under the European Unions’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme
under grant agreement No 803096 (SPEC); Core Research Grant CRG/2020/004488,
SERB, Department of Science and Technology; Infosys Young Investigator Award,
Infosys Foundation, Bangalore; the Protocol Labs Research Grant Program PL-RGP1-
2021-064.
c
⃝International Association for Cryptologic Research 2023
C. Hazay and M. Stam (Eds.): EUROCRYPT 2023, LNCS 14005, pp. 315–346, 2023.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-30617-4_11

316
C. Ganesh et al.
1
Introduction
The UC framework and UC Secure NIZKs. The Universal Composability
(UC) framework [28] allows for the modular design and analysis of complex cryp-
tographic protocols, and guarantees security in the presence of arbitrarily many
sessions running concurrently. The environment Z (representing everything that
is external to the execution of the protocol of interest) interacts with the pro-
tocol, at the conclusion of which it outputs a decision bit, indicating whether it
thinks it has interacted with a “real-life” adversary A and parties running the
protocol, or with an “ideal-process” adversary (or simulator) Sim and parties
accessing the so-called ideal functionality F specifying the ideal outcome of a
given protocol.
This paper focuses on non-interactive zero-knowledge proofs (NIZK) [16,17]
in the UC framework. In the standalone setting, security of NIZKs is guaranteed
by showing standard properties separately such as completeness, zero-knowledge,
and (knowledge) soundness under some setup assumptions, like a common ref-
erence string (CRS) or the Random Oracle Model (ROM). However, several
restrictions and stronger properties come into play once the NIZK functionality
is to be realized in the UC model. A common methodology to design NIZKs in
the ROM is to start with an interactive argument which is proven ZK/knowl-
edge sound, and then compile this interactive argument into a non-interactive
proof. This means that NIZKs that are proven secure using rewinding (either
for ZK or for extraction) are at odds with UC, because the environment Z is
an interactive distinguisher between the real execution protocol and the ideal
process, and therefore a simulator Sim in the security proof cannot rewind Z.
Thus, straight-line simulation and extraction are required for a NIZK to be UC
secure. Informally, a proof system is straight-line extractable if one can eﬃciently
extract a valid witness without interacting with any successful prover. On top
of extraction being straight-line, by deﬁnition, UC simulators must be able to
obtain a witness having only black-box access to Z, i.e., without knowing the
concrete code of Z.
Another important ingredient to realize UC security is non-malleability (NM)
[37], which is often referred to as simulation-extractability in context of UC
(NI)ZK [73,35,72,46,56,38]. Essentially, a malleability attack allows an adver-
sary to maul existing proofs observed during the protocol execution, and to forge
a proof on some statement for which they do not know the corresponding witness.
Preventing such attacks is crucial in the UC model: as Z may ask uncorrupted
provers or simulator to produce proofs on arbitrary statement-witness pairs, the
ability to maul such proofs will induce the simulation to fail (i.e., Sim fails to
extract a witness) and thus helps Z distinguish the real execution from the ideal
one. The non-malleable NIZK construction of [35] was shown to be UC secure
in [31]. Subsequently, [54,50] constructed UC secure NIZKs in the presence of
adaptive adversaries, and [50] proved that simulation-extractability is necessary
for UC. In sum, black-box extraction (BBE), straight-line extraction (SLE) and
simulation-extractability (SIMEXT) are the properties a NIZK must satisfy in
order to be UC secure.

Witness-Succinct Universally-Composable SNARKs
317
We now discuss UC security for SNARKs (succinct non-interactive argu-
ments1 of knowledge) where the communication is sublinear (ideally polyloga-
rithmic or constant2) in the size of the non-deterministic witness used to verify
the relation. A SNARK is circuit-succinct if the proof size is sublinear only in the
size of the circuit representing the statement; if it is sublinear in the length of the
witness too, it is witness-succinct. Many SNARK constructions in the literature
rely on knowledge assumptions to prove witness extraction, i.e. their extractors
rely on examining the concrete code of the adversary in order to extract a wit-
ness. As discussed earlier, this is a barrier to achieving UC security, as simulation
in the UC framework can not depend on the code of the environment.
One simple folklore method to obtain UC-secure circuit-succinct NIZK given
a SNARG (a SNARK that only guarantees soundness, not proof-of-knowledge)
and a (perfectly correct) public key encryption scheme is the following: a public
key pk serves as a common reference string, given which the prover computes
a ciphertext ct to encrypt the witness w under randomness r. The prover then
computes a SNARG π that proves that the message encrypted by ct is indeed
a witness to the statement, and outputs (ct, π). This tuple now constitutes a
straight-line extractable NIZK, as the extractor (given sk) can simply decrypt
ct to obtain w—intuitively this w must be a valid witness since ct is a perfectly
binding commitment to w, and so if w is not a valid witness then π would be
proving a false theorem. Notice that this proof additionally inherits the circuit
succinctness property of the SNARG, as ct is of size O(|w|) and π is the SNARG
itself. This approach was described by De Santis et al. [35] in the context of
lifting ordinary NIZK to simulation-sound NIZK, and implemented as part of
the C∅C∅framework for circuit-succinct UC NIZK by Kosba et al. [63], with
optimizations for concrete eﬃciency using the state-of-the-art SNARKs at the
time. C∅C∅further proposed an optimized method to obtain non-malleability,
by additionally proving that the encrypted string is a valid signature on the
statement. Putting all these features together, C∅C∅serves as the ﬁrst generic
UC lifting compiler preserving circuit succinctness.
A major limitation of this technique is that it is inherently limited to pro-
ducing proofs that are at least as large as the witness, by virtue of the witness
having to be ‘decryptable’ from the ciphertext. Constructing witness-succinct
proofs that enjoy black-box straight-line extraction appears to require a fun-
damentally diﬀerent approach. Indeed, Kosba et al. remarked that there is “no
known UC-secure zero-knowledge proof construction that is circuit and witness-
succinct, even under non-standard assumptions” [63, pg. 2], and left open the
question of whether such an object is even feasible to construct. Given this, one
may ask:
Is it possible to obtain UC-secure witness-succinct NIZKs
under well-studied setup assumptions?
1 Argument systems are proofs where soundness is computational. For proofs to be
shorter than the length of the witness, restricting to arguments is necessary [48,49].
2 Polynomial only in the security parameter.

318
C. Ganesh et al.
The requirement of “well-studied” setup assumptions is meant to capture
those forms of setup that have generally accepted realizations. In this work,
we consider the common reference string (CRS) model, and the random oracle
model (ROM) to fall within the scope of well-studied setup. For SNARKs in par-
ticular, there is already established infrastructure to generate the CRSs required
(via so called “powers of tau” ceremonies implemented by major blockchains such
as ZCash, FileCoin, etc. [21]). There are also established heuristics to instantiate
the ROM in practice with carefully chosen hash functions, and the ROM itself is
arguably amongst the oldest and most comprehensively studied idealized mod-
els [10].
Models we do not Consider. Several SNARK constructions are known to
be secure with non-black-box extraction under knowledge assumptions, or in
idealized models such as the Generic Group Model (GGM) or Algebraic Group
Model (AGM). The UC-AGM framework [1] allows to model the AGM and alge-
braic adversaries in a composable fashion. However, doing so requires the use
of algebraic environments making it incompatible with standard UC. The other
related alternative model is considered in [60] where they formally deﬁne the con-
cept of knowledge-respecting distinguishing environments, enabling the usage of
primitives relying on knowledge assumptions in larger protocols. However, their
entire formalization is built on top of a diﬀerent compositional framework [68]
than UC. Similar to the UC-AGM framework, distinguishers in their model are
globally assumed to explain how they computed each knowledge-implying object
they output, making themselves weaker than environments in the standard UC.
Succinct Arguments of Knowledge with a CRS Alone. Folklore has long
held that NIZKs in the CRS model with black-box straight-line extraction cannot
be witness-succinct, as the witness must be ‘decryptable’ from the proof string
as in the simple approach described earlier. Indeed, all pairing based eﬃcient
SNARKs that are witness-succinct in the standard model with a CRS (like [47,
70]) are not black-box extractable3. The intuition is that for a language whose
witnesses have enough entropy, an argument that is too “short” cannot contain
enough information about a witness: this makes extraction impossible for an
extractor that does not have any additional power, like access to the prover’s
randomness (like in non-black-box extractors) or the ability to rewind the prover
(like in interactive arguments and resulting NIZKs compiled in the ROM). We
refer the reader to the recent work of Campanelli et al. [27] for a formal treatment
of this. Given that black-box extraction is necessary for UC security, we consider
it justiﬁed to consider UC security in the ROM in light of this impossibility.
Succinct Arguments of Knowledge in the ROM. There are several witness-
succinct proof systems in the ROM in the literature such as the classical Prob-
abilistically Checkable Proofs (PCP) based approach of Kilian [61], Micali’s CS
proofs [69], and the recent works on Interactive Oracle Proofs [15]. However
to our knowledge, there are no witness-succinct proof systems in the ROM that
3 Pairing based constructions like PLONK, Sonic, Marlin are not black-box extractable
as well, but they are also in the ROM in addition to requiring a CRS.

Witness-Succinct Universally-Composable SNARKs
319
Table 1. Known properties of existing (witness-succinct) zkSNARKs compared to
example instantiation of our compilation. “BBE” stands for black-box knowledge
extraction; “SLE” for straight-line knowledge extractor; “SIMEXT” for simulation-
extractability. We say a proof system is “transparent” if no trusted generation of CRS
is required. Note that the assumptions for the last row are derived from an example
instantiation of [2, Theorem 4] where they adapt [52] as an underlying SNARK.
Scheme
Assumption
Model
Transparent BBE SLE SIMEXT
STARK [12]
ROM
ROM
✓
✓
✓
unknown
Aurora [14]
ROM
ROM
✓
✓
✓
unknown
RedShift [59]
ROM
ROM
✓
✓
✓
unknown
Bulletproofs [22]
DLOG
ROM
✓
✓
✗
✓[45]
SONIC [67]
AGM & q-DLOG
CRS & ROM
✗
✗
✓
✓[42]
PLONK [41]
AGM
CRS & ROM
✗
✗
✓
✓[42]
Marlin [33]
AGM
CRS & ROM
✗
✗
✓
✓[42]
Groth16 [51]
GGM
CRS(& ROM for NM)
✗
✗
✓
✓[20]
Groth-Maller [53]
XPKE & Poly
CRS
✗
✗
✓
✓
LAMASSU [2]
q-MC & q-MK & BDH & DL
CRS
✗
✗
✓
✓
Ours + [53] + [57]
XPKE & Poly & SDH
CRS & GROM
✗
✓
✓
✓
Ours + [2] + [57]
q-MC & q-MK & BDH & DL & SDH
CRS & GROM
✗
✓
✓
✓
have been formally analyzed in the UC framework. While some of these construc-
tions [69,3,11] are black-box straight-line extractable, simulation-extractability
of these has not been shown. SNARKs in the ROM that are logarithmic in the
statement and witness size are known from conservative computational assump-
tions such as the hardness of computing discrete logarithms [19,22] in the stan-
dalone setting. Bulletproofs [22] are known to be simulation-extractable, but
currently only in the AGM+ROM [44] or in the ROM with rewinding [45]. If a
CRS is assumed in addition to ROM, then constructions like PLONK, Sonic, and
Marlin also provide constant sized (polynomial only in the security parameter)
proofs, but their simulation-extractability is only shown in AGM+ROM [42].
We indicate these properties of existing SNARKs in Table 1. Given this state of
aﬀairs, we can reﬁne our earlier question to the following:
Is it possible to obtain UC-secure NIZKs with constant size proofs
in the random oracle model?
Our Results. In this work, we answer the above question in the aﬃrmative.
In particular, we give a compiler (in the ROM) that lifts any SNARK from
non-black-box to black-box straight-line extraction, with constant (i.e. Oλ(1))
overhead.
Theorem 1.1. (Informal)
Given
a
non-black-box
simulation-extractable
zkSNARK ΠR for a relation R and a succinct polynomial commitment scheme,
there exists a UC-secure, witness-succinct zkSNARK ΠUC-R in the (global ran-
dom oracle (GRO), local setup (FSetup))-hybrid model, where GRO is observable but
non-programmable as in [30] and FSetup models the setup required by the original
zkSNARK ΠR (e.g., a trusted CRS generator or the local random oracle).

320
C. Ganesh et al.
Plugging well-known SNARKs such as [53,2] into our compiler gives us as a
corollary the ﬁrst constant sized UC NIZKs in the (GRO, Fcrs)-hybrid model,
from pairings under knowledge assumptions.
Remarks. There are a few qualiﬁcations to our main theorem:
– Knowledge Assumptions: Any output NIZK produced via our compiler inher-
its the knowledge assumptions used by the input SNARK. However, as knowl-
edge assumptions cannot be used directly in the UC framework (as simulation
cannot depend on the environment), the extraction strategy for our compiled
SNARK does not involve invoking the non-black-box extractor of the input
SNARK. Intuitively, we only make use of the input SNARK’s non-black-box
extractor to argue the indistinguishability of intermediate hybrid experiments
(which can depend on the environment).
– Unique Proofs: Our compiler requires polynomial commitments that support
a new ‘unique proof’ property, i.e. it is hard for an adversary to produce
two distinct proofs for the same evaluation point. This is in fact an analo-
gous notion to unique response deﬁned for ROM-based NIZK proofs to be
simulation-extractable [38,44]. Although this is not a standard property in
the stand-alone setting, we show that it is a natural feature of common poly-
nomial commitment schemes such as KZG [57].
1.1
Technical Overview
We begin with the observation that most SNARKs already have straight-line
zero-knowledge simulators—the veriﬁer of a non-interactive object has no secrets
and so there is nothing to be gained by rewinding or looking at its code—
and therefore simulating an honest prover’s SNARK string in the UC context
is straightforward. Moreover, a plethora of work suggest that many concretely
eﬃcient SNARKs are already simulation extractable (see Table 1). The barrier
to using existing SNARKs in the UC context is that the only known extractors
require either looking into the code of the prover (i.e. non-black-box extraction)
or rewinding the prover. Neither of these extraction techniques can be directly
used within the UC framework, as the simulator in the UC experiment can not
rewind the environment, nor depend on its code.
Previous works have recognized the fact that even though simulation must be
straight-line in the UC framework, their proofs of indistinguishability can make
use of arguments that involve rewinding the environment [36,25]. The underlying
principle is that even though the environment can not be rewound during simu-
lation for the UC experiment, rewinding the environment can still be helpful as
an analytical tool, for example in generating intermediate hybrid distributions
between the real and ideal experiments. To our knowledge, this principle has not
been applied to the case of non-black-box simulation, i.e. generating intermediate
hybrid distributions using the code of the environment.
Our insight is that the existence of a non-black-box extractor guarantees that
in order to produce a SNARK, the environment must fundamentally ‘know’ a
witness—lifting the SNARK to a UC NIZK is then a matter of forcing the

Witness-Succinct Universally-Composable SNARKs
321
environment to use this knowledge. We describe below how we leverage this
insight, by incrementally building upon the simple approach described earlier.
Commitments Instead of Encryption. Recall that the simple approach—
where a proof consists of ciphertext ct and proof π that ct encrypts a witness—
is bottlenecked by the ciphertext having to be ‘decryptable’, which means that
|ct| ∈Ω(|w|). If we relax the decryptability requirement, we can have ct be
a commitment instead. This is helpful, because commitments can be indepen-
dent of the size of the message committed, and therefore succinct. Obtaining
the witness from ct now becomes a matter of extracting a committed message
rather than simply decrypting a ciphertext, and forms the core of the technical
challenge.
Core Tool: Succinct, Provable, Straight-Line Extractable Commit-
ments. Straight-line extractable commitments are typically straightforward to
construct in the random oracle model—simply computing H(w, r) to commit
to w with randomness r suﬃces [71,25]. However H must be a random oracle
to enable straight-line extraction, meaning that one cannot prove statements
about its input. This is an issue as we need to prove that w committed to in ct
is indeed a valid witness. This issue can be solved by assuming that since H is
instantiated with a concrete hash function, it will have a circuit representation
(as is common in the literature on recursive SNARKs [23,34]) however we wish
to avoid such heuristics.
We must therefore construct a ‘provable’ commitment scheme, i.e. one that
has a meaningful circuit representation while also supporting straight-line extrac-
tion of the committed message. Our methodology for designing such a commit-
ment involves two parts (cm, πcm), where cm is a commitment string output by
a standard model commitment algorithm ,, and πcm is a straight-line extractable
proof of knowledge of its opening—notice that now it is meaningful to prove via
a SNARK that cm is a commitment to a valid witness, as , is a standard model
algorithm. Since it is straightforward to achieve |cm| ∈Oλ(1), we will focus on
the design of πcm.
Like much of the SNARK literature, in constructing πcm we leverage the fact
that arithmetization is conducive to succinct proofs. In particular, we instruct
the prover to encode the witness w as the coeﬃcients of a polynomial f(x),
and commit to f within cm (rather than committing to w directly). Assuming a
prime q ∈ω(poly(λ)) is a parameter of the scheme, and d ∈Z a parameter of the
statement, w is interpreted as a vector w ∈Fd
q that characterize the coeﬃcients
of the degree4 d −1 polynomial f ∈Fq[X]. Our straight-line extraction strategy
will be to ensure that the prover queries at least d evaluations of f to the random
oracle (i.e. enough to reconstruct w), by having the veriﬁer check a subset of the
evaluations. Importantly, this validation of f can be performed succinctly; the
veriﬁer need only query Oλ(1) evaluations of f, and each evaluation can be
authenticated at Oλ(1) cost. We sketch our ideas behind these principles below.
4 We remark that the actual compiler needs to inﬂate the degree according to the
number of revealed evaluations in order to retain zero-knowledge, but we omit this
technicality here for ease of exposition.

322
C. Ganesh et al.
Oλ(1) Veriﬁer Queries: The prover ﬁrst evaluates f at n points and commits
to each {f(i)}i∈[n]. The prover is then instructed to reveal r of the committed
evaluations—which are checked for correctness—to guarantee that the commit-
ments contain at least d −1 correct evaluations in total, with overwhelming
probability. Assuming that r ∈[n] is chosen at random, the parameters can be
ﬁxed so that r ∈Oλ(1), due to the following rough analysis: the best adversarial
assignment (for a cheating prover) of the n committed evaluations consists of
only d−1 correct (and n−d+1 ‘junk’) ones, to maximize the number of subsets
of size r that will satisfy a veriﬁer—i.e.
d−1
r

. The total number of possible sub-
sets that the veriﬁer could query is
n
r

, which brings the probability of success
of the best possible cheating strategy to:
d−1
r

n
r

≈dr/r!
nr/r! =
 d
n
r
Now if we ﬁx r as say, λ (so that r ∈Oλ(1)), notice that for any d ∈Z the above
quantity can be upper bounded by 2−λ by setting n ≈2d. In general, as long as
r ∈Ω(λ/ log λ), the same upper bound can be achieved with n ∈poly(d, λ).
Authenticating Evaluation Openings at Oλ(1) Cost via Fischlin’s Tech-
nique [39]: We framed our description above in a PCP-like model, where the
prover writes down n evaluations of f, of which the veriﬁer queries and checks
r of them. As n is clearly not witness-succinct, we need a method by which the
prover can commit to the n evaluations, and succinctly reveal r of them upon
request. In the PCP/IOP literature [69,15], it is common to use Merkle trees
for this task; they provide Oλ(1) sized commitments with r short (Oλ(log n)
sized) openings, and even natively support straight-line extraction. This follows
a ‘cut-and-choose’ paradigm, where the prover commits to n objects, and the
veriﬁer checks r of them in order to guarantee that a total of at least d of the
committed objects are ‘good’. However the Oλ(log n) sized evaluation opening
is a deal breaker (in the context of achieving Oλ(1)-sized proofs) as it grows—
albeit slowly—with the witness size, and appears to be a fundamental hurdle
with such techniques.
In the context of compiling Σ-protocols to NIZKs with straight-line extrac-
tion, Fischlin [39] presented a technique based on proofs of work that shed the
Oλ(log n) cost of Merkle tree openings when checking the validity of a subset
of committed objects. At a very high level, Fischlin’s technique emulates the
combinatorial properties of the cut-and-choose approach, without the logistics
of providing explicit commitments/openings. Fischlin’s idea is that rather than
challenging the prover to reveal a (randomly chosen) r-sized subset of some com-
mitted xi values, the prover is challenged to provide any r values {xi}i∈[r] such
that H(xi) = 0 for each i, where H is a random oracle. This forces the prover to
query multiple ‘good’ xi values to H before ﬁnding r of them that hash to the
zero string, and no explicit decommitment information is necessary.
Applying Fischlin’s technique to our setting yields a protocol of the following
form. Upon ﬁxing cm, for each i ∈[r]: (1) the prover computes π(i)
cm = (zi, f(zi))
with uniform zi and the corresponding evaluation proof π(i)
ev that ensures the

Witness-Succinct Universally-Composable SNARKs
323
polynomial f committed to in cm has been correctly evaluated at zi, and (2)
store (π(i)
cm, π(i)
ev ) and go to the next iteration if H(cm, i, π(i)
cm, π(i)
ev ) = 0 for a
random oracle H with b-bit outputs, and go to step (1) otherwise. Thanks to
the evaluation proof, π(i)
cm is tied to a given commitment cm. In practice, succinct
evaluation proof can be easily implemented by naively invoking the underlying
SNARK prover5 or by instantiating cm with a dedicated polynomial commitment
scheme such as [57], which usually minimizes the overhead in prover’s work.
Computing such a proof is easy for an honest prover, via rejection-sampling with
random (zi, f(zi)) values until r of them that hash to zero are found. As for an
adversarial prover P ∗, the aim is to produce an accepting proof—by ﬁnding r
pre-images of 0—with d −1 or fewer queries to the random oracle. As a loose
upper bound, the probability that P ∗ﬁnds r successes within d −1 queries is
at most the probability that for every i ∈[r], P ∗is able to ﬁnd H(cm, i, ·) = 0
within d −1 queries. For any given i, the probability that P ∗ﬁnds H(cm, i,
·) = 0 within d queries is at most d/2b; therefore the probability that P ∗ﬁnds
H(cm, i, ·) = 0 within d −1 queries for every i ∈[r] simultaneously is at most
(d/2b)r = 2−r(b−log d). The proof sketch here are implicitly assuming that a valid
evaluation proof is determined uniquely once cm, zi, and f(zi) are ﬁxed. Our
formal analysis accounts for this subtlety and we show that [57] indeed satisﬁes
this property.
Assuming that r = λ ∈Oλ(1), the above quantity is bounded by 2−λ when
b = 1 + log d ∈Oλ(log d). The prover’s work is in expectation 2b · r = 21+log d · λ
which is in poly(λ) as well as Oλ(d), i.e. it scales linearly in the witness size. Of
course better parameters are possible; r can be improved by up to a log factor,
as we explore later in the ‘succinctness’ component of the proof of Theorem 3.1.
Putting it Together: The prover produces an Oλ(1)-sized standard model
commitment cm to a degree d polynomial f that encodes the witness, and proves
knowledge of its opening via πcm = (π(i)
cm)i∈[r] – this proof is at the heart of
forcing the environment to use the witness within the context of the protocol.
The proof πcm requires the prover to ‘work’ to ﬁnd r ∈Oλ(1) pre-images of 0 for
random oracle H, where each pre-image is an evaluation of f. The parameters for
this proof-of-work are set so that (except with negligible probability) the prover
queries more than d −1 evaluations of f in its eﬀort to ﬁnd these r pre-images
of zero. Reading these d evaluations of f allows an extractor to reconstruct f—
which is an opening to cm. Finally, the prover gives a SNARK π to prove that
it knows an opening to cm that is the witness to a public statement (through a
suitable witness-polynomial encoding function Enc). If one were to hypothetically
run the non-black-box SNARK extractor on the environment at this point, the
opening to cm that it ﬁnds should be exactly the same as the f reconstructed
via the extractor of πcm; if not, then one would obtain two openings to cm,
in contradiction of the binding property of the commitment scheme. Therefore,
5 For this alternative instantiation, one must use a de-randomized version of the under-
lying SNARK to obtain the unique proof property, as also required by our main
compiler.

324
C. Ganesh et al.
any knowledge that the environment uses in the production of π—perhaps even
outside the protocol—is extracted in a black-box, straight-line fashion via πcm
within the context of the protocol.
1.2
Related Work
Straight-Line Extraction. Our UC-lifting technique is inspired by Fischlin’s
transform [39] based on Proof-of-Work. Kondi and shelat [62] gave an analysis
for using Fischlin’s transformation for compressing proofs in the context of signa-
ture aggregation, and showed how randomizing Fischlin’s technique is conducive
to zero-knowledge. Very recently, Lysyanskaya and Rosenbloom [66,65] present
compilers lifting Σ-protocols to UC-secure (adaptive) NIZKPoK in the global
ROM, where the straight-line extraction is realized via Fischlin’s transform.
Canetti, Sarkar, and Wang [32] realized triply adaptive UC-secure NIZK using a
straight-line extractable commitment in the CRS model. Pass [71] described
a generic way to turn Σ-protocols with special soundness into straight-line
extractable proof systems using RO-based commitment. The technique is some-
what analogous to the veriﬁable encryption of Camenisch and Damgård [24]
where the commitment is instantiated using public-key encryption and thus SLE
holds in the CRS model (where the decryption key serves as a private extraction
key for the knowledge extractor). The transform of Unruh [74] extended [71]
to retain security against an adversary making superposition queries to the RO
(the so-called quantum random oracle model). Recently, Katsumata [58] showed
an eﬃcient SLE transform in the QROM tailored to lattice-based ZK proofs.
Lifting Transformations. Techniques for generically adding black-box simula-
tion extractability to any NIZK were ﬁrst shown in the works of [73,35,50], opti-
mized in the C∅C∅framework [63], and tailored to Groth16 in [5,6]. These tech-
niques augment the relation to an OR language and the trapdoor for one of the
OR clauses is used by the ZK simulator. Extractability is obtained by encrypting
the witness under a public key that is part of the CRS and additionally proving
correct encryption. The LAMASSU [2] framework extends the C∅C∅lifting tech-
nique to work with updatable SNARKs giving a generic compiler from updatable
CRS SNARKS to SE SNARKs. TIRAMISU [9] builds on these frameworks to
additionally lift SNARKs into black-box simulation extractable ones. However,
all these lifting transformations yield SNARKs where one of either witness suc-
cinctess or blackbox extraction is lost, unlike our compiler. There are works on
lifting speciﬁc SNARKs into SE; the work of Groth and Maller [53] presents an
SE SNARK, but the simulation extractability is non-black-box. There is a line of
work on analysing the simulation extractability [20,7,8] of Groth16; all of these
are in idealized models like GGM/AGM, in addition to ROM.
2
Preliminaries
Notations. For positive integers a and b such that a < b we use the integer
interval notation [a, b] to denote {a, a + 1, . . . , b}. We also use [b] as shorthand

Witness-Succinct Universally-Composable SNARKs
325
for [1, b]. If S is a set we write s ←$ S to indicate sampling s from the uniform
distribution deﬁned over S; if A is a randomized (resp. deterministic) algorithm
we write s ←A (resp. s := A) to indicate assigning an output from A to s. The
security parameter λ is 1λ in unary. A function f(λ) is said to be negligible in
λ if for any polynomial poly(λ) it holds that f(λ) < 1/poly(λ) for suﬃciently
large λ > 0. We write “f(λ) < negl(λ)” to indicate f(λ) is negligible in λ. F[X]
denotes polynomials over a ﬁnite ﬁeld F. For an integer d ≥1, F<d[X] ⊆F[X]
denotes polynomials of degree less than d.
2.1
UC Framework
In this work, we use the Universal Composability (UC) framework [28] for secu-
rity proofs. UC follows the simulation-based paradigm where the security of a
protocol is deﬁned with respect to an ideal world where a trusted party, the
functionality F, does the all of the computation. Informally, a protocol securely
realizes F in the real world if for any real world adversary there exist an equiva-
lent ideal world adversary (the simulator). Equivalent meaning that any outside
observer (the environment) cannot distinguish between the real protocol execu-
tion and the ideal execution. UC’s composition theorem ensures that one can
safely compose protocols that have been proven UC-secure.
Global Random Oracle. More precisely, we use the generalized UC (GUC)
framework [29] which allows to model global functionalities that are shared
between diﬀerent protocol instances. We consider a hybrid-model where parties
have access to a (non-programmable) global random oracle GRO as introduced
in [30]. We follow the simpliﬁed description from [25]. The GRO functionality can
be queried by any party and the ideal adversary with two commands: query and
observe. The environment can query GRO by spawning additional dummy par-
ties outside the context of the current protocol execution. GRO answers all new
query command by lazy sampling from the domain and stores them locally in
a list Q. A repeated query requires a simple lookup in Q. Some query queries
are marked “illegitimate” and can be observed via observe command. Next we
explain which query counts as an illegitimate one. Each party is associated with
its party identiﬁer pid and a session identiﬁer sid. When a party queries GRO
with the command (query, x), the query is parsed as (s, x′) where s denotes
the session identiﬁer associated with the party. A query is marked as illegitimate
if the sid ﬁeld of the query diﬀers from the sid associated to the party making
the query. In other words, these are the queries made outside the context of the
current session execution. We formally deﬁne the functionality GRO in Fig. 1.
Remark 2.1. In [30] the random oracle allows ideal functionalities to obtain the
list of illegitimate queries. In order for the adversary to fetch those queries there
needs to be a (dummy) functionality that forwards those queries. In [25] this is
simpliﬁed by allowing the adversary to directly query the random oracle for ille-
gitimate queries. Thus, functionalities no longer need to forward the illegitimate
queries.

326
C. Ganesh et al.
Functionality 1: GRO
GRO is parametrized by the output length ℓ(1λ).
– Query Upon receiving a query (query, x), from some party P = (pid, sid)
or from the adversary Sim do:
• Look up v if there is a pair (x, v) for some v ∈{0, 1}ℓ(1λ) in the (initially
empty) list Q of past queries. Else, choose uniformly v ∈{0, 1}ℓ(1λ)
and store the pair (x, v) in Q.
• Parse x as (s, x′). If sid ̸= s then add (s, x′, v) to the (initially empty)
list of illegitimate queries for SID s, that is denoted by Q|s.
• Return v to P.
– Observe Upon receiving a request (observe, sid) from the adversary Sim,
return the list Q|sid of illegitimate queries for SID sid to the adversary.
Fig. 1. Functionality for Global Random Oracle GRO [25]
Intuitively, these illegitimate queries are required for proving security of our
protocols. The ideal adversary (or the simulator) works by observing GRO queries
made by the corrupt party during the protocol execution. However, the environ-
ment can bypass this by querying GRO via additional dummy parties outside
the current session. The simulator remains oblivious to these additional parties
and thus fails in proving security. However, this behavior of the environment is
accounted for in [25] by marking such queries as illegitimate and disclosing them
to the simulator via observe command. Note that any GRO query for session
id sid made by a party (or the simulator) participating in the session identiﬁed
by sid will never be marked as illegitimate. Thus, any query made the simula-
tor itself is not recorded by the functionality and hence cannot be observed by
anyone. This is crucial for proving indistinguishability between the ideal and the
real world and we elaborate in the proof of Theorem 3.1.
Deﬁnition 2.2. (UC Security in the Global ROM [29,30]). Let F, F′ be
m-party functionalities and Π be a protocol. We say that Π UC-realizes F in
the GRO, F′-hybrid model if for any hybrid-model PPT adversary A, there exists
an ideal process PPT adversary Sim such that for every PPT environment Z, it
holds that:
{IDEALGRO
F,Sim,Z(x, λ, z)}x,λ,z ≈{REALGRO
F′,Π,A,Z(x, λ, z)}x,λ,z
where REAL is the outputs of the honest parties and the adversary A after a
real execution of protocol Π with input x = (x1, . . . , xm) for parties P1, . . . , Pm
where each xi ∈{0, 1}∗, z ∈{0, 1}∗is the auxiliary input for A and λ is the
security parameter. IDEAL is the analogous distribution in an ideal execution

Witness-Succinct Universally-Composable SNARKs
327
with a trusted party that computes F for the parties and hands the output to
the designated players.
2.2
Succinct Non Interactive Zero-Knowledge Proof
A non-interactive proof system for relation R, denoted by ΠR, consists a tuple
of algorithms (PGen, OSetup, P, V).
– pp ←PGen(1λ): Takes as input the security parameter λ and outputs public
parameters pp. Once PGen is invoked we assume that all of the following
algorithms take pp as an implicit input.
– out ←OSetup(in): A stateful setup oracle that takes an input string in and
outputs out.
– π ←POSetup(x, w): Takes as input a statement x and witness w, and outputs
a proof π if (x, w) ∈R.
– b ←VOSetup(x, π): Takes as input a statement x and proof π, and outputs a
bit b, indicating “accept” or “reject”.
We introduce the setup oracle OSetup to the notation of NIZKs to capture
the two typical setup assumptions in an abstract manner. That is, if a proof
system is instantiated in the CRS model, then OSetup internally generates crs
upon receiving a query with any input for the ﬁrst time, and keeps outputting
the same crs regardless of the input. When instantiating the RO model, OSetup
is initialized with an empty query-response table and proceeds as follows. On
receiving in ∈{0, 1}∗, if in has never been queried, sample uniform out ∈{0,
1}ℓ(λ), store (in, out) in the table, and return out. Otherwise, look up the table
to ﬁnd out associated with in, and return out.
We deﬁne three basic security properties for ΠR in the stand-alone setting.
Deﬁnition 2.3. (Completeness). ΠR satisﬁes completeness if for every (x,
w) ∈R, it holds that
Pr

b = 1 : pp ←PGen(1λ); π ←POSetup(x, w); b ←VOSetup(x, π)

= 1.
We deﬁne zero-knowledge by following the syntax of [38,44]. A zero-
knowledge simulator S is deﬁned as a stateful algorithm with initial state st = pp
that operates in two modes. The ﬁrst mode, (out, st′) ←S(1, st, in) takes care of
handling calls to the oracle OSetup on input in. The second mode, (π, st′) ←S(2,
st, x) simulates a proof for the input statement x. For convenience we deﬁne
three “wrapper” oracles. These oracles are stateful and share the internal state
st, which initially contains an empty string.
– S1(in) to denote the oracle that returns the ﬁrst output of S(1, st, in);
– S2(x, w) that returns the ﬁrst output of S(2, st, x) if (x, w) ∈R and ⊥oth-
erwise;
– S′
2(x) that returns the ﬁrst output of S(2, st, x).

328
C. Ganesh et al.
Deﬁnition 2.4. ((Unbounded)
Zero-Knowledge). Let ΠR
=
(PGen,
OSetup, P, V) be a non-interactive proof system for relation R. ΠR is unbounded
non-interactive zero-knowledge (NIZK), if there exists a PPT simulator S with
wrapper oracles S1 and S2 such that for all PPT adversaries A it holds that
Pr
	
b = 1 :
pp ←PGen(1λ);
b ←AOSetup,P(pp)

−Pr
	
b = 1 :
pp ←PGen(1λ);
b ←AS1,S2(pp)

 < negl(λ).
Next, we deﬁne simulation extractability, which essentially guarantees that
proofs are non-malleable. We stress that the present deﬁnition is weaker than
what is necessary for realizing UC security, because the extractor algorithm
here is non-black-box, i.e., it requires looking into the code of the adversary.
The deﬁnition is an abstracted version of [53] and the schemes satisfying their
deﬁnition clearly meet the version below by instantiating S with trapdoor’d CRS
generator in mode 1 and ZK simulator in mode 2.
Deﬁnition 2.5. ((Non-black-box) Simulation Extractability). Consider
a non-interactive proof system ΠR = (PGen, OSetup, P, V) for relation R with an
NIZK simulator S. Let (S1, S′
2) be wrapper oracles for S as deﬁned above. ΠR
is non-black-box simulation-extractable (SIM-EXT) with respect to S, if for any
PPT adversary A, there exists a PPT extractor EA such that
Pr

(x, π) /∈Q ∧(x, w) /∈R
∧b = 1 :
pp ←PGen(1λ); (x, π) ←AS1,S′
2(pp);
b ←VS1(x, π); w ←EA(x, π, stateA, st)

< negl(λ)
where st is the ﬁnal state of the simulator S, stateA is a string containing all
inputs and outputs of A, including random coins, and Q is a set of statement-
proof pairs (x, π) with x being a statement queried by A to the proof simulation
wrapper oracle S′
2, and π being the corresponding simulated proof, respectively.
The ideal functionality FSetup that provides the setup and oracle for non-
interactive proof system ΠR = (PGen, OSetup, P, V) is described in Fig. 2.
Our ﬁnal goal is to compile ΠR with the above basic security properties into
a UC-secure NIZK protocol ΠUC-R. The ideal functionality for Non-interactive
Zero-Knowledge FNIZK is deﬁned in Fig. 3. The functionality is taken from [55]
with a minor diﬀerence being that FNIZK explicitly informs Sim of the associated
session ID.
2.3
Succinct Polynomial Commitment Scheme
The following deﬁnition is adapted from the full version of [33]. The diﬀerence
is that we omit the commitment key trimming algorithm as it is only necessary
for concrete optimization.

Witness-Succinct Universally-Composable SNARKs
329
Functionality 2: FSetup
FSetup is parametrized by a security parameter λ and a degree bound D > 0 and
runs with parties P1, . . . , PN and an ideal process adversary Sim.
– Parameters Upon receiving input (genparams, sid) from a party Pi, if no
pp has been stored, run pp ←PGen(1λ), initialize oracle OSetup with pp, and
store pp. Send (params, sid, pp) to Pi.
– Commitment Key Upon receiving input (genkey, sid) from a party Pi, if
no ck has been stored, run ck ←KGen(1λ, D) and store ck. Send (comkey,
sid, ck) to Pi.
– Setup Upon receiving input (setup, sid, in) from a party Pi, ignore if OSetup
has not been initialized with pp. Otherwise run out ←OSetup(in) using the
current state of OSetup and send (setup, sid, out) to Pi.
Fig. 2. N-party functionality for setup FSetup
Deﬁnition 2.6. (Polynomial Commitment Scheme). A polynomial com-
mitment scheme over ﬁeld F, denoted by PCS, is a tuple of algorithms (KGen,
Com, Eval, Check):
1. ck ←KGen(1λ, D): Takes as input the security parameter λ and the maximum
degree bound D and generates commitment key ck as output.
2. c ←Com(ck, f, d; ρc): Takes as input ck, the polynomial f ∈F<d[X], the
degree bound d ≤D, randomness ρc and outputs a commitment c. In case
the commitment scheme is deterministic ρc = ⊥.
3. π ←Eval(ck, c, d, z, y, f; ρc): Takes as input ck, the commitment c, degree
bound d ≤D, evaluation point z ∈F, claimed polynomial evaluation y ∈F,
the polynomial f, and outputs a non-interactive proof of evaluation π. The
randomness ρc must equal the one previously used in Com.
4. b ←Check(ck, c, d, z, y, π): Takes as input statement (ck, c, d, z, y) and the
proof of evaluation π and outputs a bit b.
satisfying the following properties:
Completeness. For any integer 1 ≤d ≤D, for all polynomials f ∈F<d[X], for
all evaluation points z ∈F, and any randomness ρc
Pr
⎡
⎢⎣b = 1 :
ck ←KGen(1λ, D); c ←Com(ck, f, d; ρc);
y := f(z); π ←Eval(ck, c, d, z, y, f; ρc);
b ←Check(ck, c, d, z, y, π)
⎤
⎥⎦= 1.
Evaluation Binding. For any integer 1 ≤d ≤D, for all PPT adversaries A,

330
C. Ganesh et al.
Functionality 3: FNIZK
FNIZK is parametrized by polynomial-time-decidable relation R ∈{0, 1}∗×{0, 1}∗,
and runs with parties P1, . . . , PN and an ideal process adversary Sim. It stores
proof table Q which is initially empty.
– Proof Upon receiving input (prove, sid, ssid, x, w) from a party Pi, ignore if
(x, w) /∈R. Otherwise, send (prove, sid, x) to Sim. Upon receiving (proof, π)
from Sim, store (x, π) in Q and send (proof, sid, ssid, π) to Pi.
– Veriﬁcation Upon receiving input (verify, sid, ssid, x, π) from a party Pi, if
(x, π) is not stored in Q, then send (verify, sid, x, π) to Sim. Upon receiv-
ing (witness, w) from Sim, if (x, w) ∈R, store (x, π) in Q. Finally, return
(verification, sid, ssid, (x, π) ∈? Q) to Pi.
Fig. 3. N-party functionality for non-interactive zero-knowledge FNIZK
Pr
⎡
⎢⎣
y ̸= y′
∧b = 1
∧b′ = 1
:
ck ←KGen(1λ, D); (c, d, z, y, y′, π, π′) ←A(ck);
b ←Check(ck, c, d, z, y, π);
b′ ←Check(ck, c, d, z, y′, π′)
⎤
⎥⎦≤negl(λ).
Succinctness. A PCS is said to be succinct if both the size of commitment c
and evaluation proof π is of size Oλ(1).
In addition to standard properties above, we need a few more special prop-
erties for our compiler to work. In a later section we show that the widely used
scheme of [57] indeed satisfy these.
Deﬁnition 2.7. (Unique Proof). For all PPT adversaries A,
Pr
⎡
⎢⎢⎢⎣
π ̸= π′
∧b = 1
∧b′ = 1
:
ck ←KGen(1λ, D);
(c, d, z, y, π, π′) ←A(ck);
b ←Check(ck, c, d, z, y, π);
b′ ←Check(ck, c, d, z, y, π′)
⎤
⎥⎥⎥⎦≤negl(λ).
We deﬁne a polynomial encoding scheme, which takes a vector of ﬁeld ele-
ments and outputs an appropriate randomized polynomial. An important prop-
erty, sometimes referred to as bounded independence in the literature [33, §2.3]6,
guarantees that a bounded number of evaluations do not leak any information
about the original polynomial.
Deﬁnition 2.8. (Polynomial Encoding Scheme).
A polynomial encoding
scheme, denoted by PES, is a tuple of algorithms (Enc, Dec) deﬁned over an
evaluation domain DEnc (which also determines the forbidden domain SEnc =
F \ DEnc).
6 This property is also know as k-knowledge bound in [13].

Witness-Succinct Universally-Composable SNARKs
331
– f ←Enc(w, n, ℓ; ρ): Takes as inputs w ∈Fn, dimension of the vector n > 0,
evaluation bound ℓ> 0, and randomness ρ ∈Fℓ, and outputs a polynomial
f ∈F<n+ℓ[X].
– w′ ←Dec(f, n, ℓ): Takes as inputs f ∈F<n+ℓ[X], n > 0, and ℓ> 0, and
deterministically outputs w′ ∈Fn.
We say PES is correct if w = Dec(Enc(w, n, ℓ; ρ), n, ℓ) for any n > 0, ℓ> 0,
w ∈Fn, and ρ ∈Fℓ. PES satisﬁes bounded independence if for any n > 0, ℓ> 0,
and w ∈Fn, and for ρ sampled uniformly from Fℓ, any set of ℓevaluations of
f ←Enc(w, n, ℓ; ρ) in DEnc are independently and uniformly distributed in F.
In this work, we only consider polynomial encoding schemes where the size of the
evaluation domain is exponential in the security parameter, i.e. |DEnc| ∈O(2λ).
Below we recall some candidate encoding schemes that are implicitly employed
in many SNARK constructions.
– Coeﬃcient Encoding PES1 = (Enc1, Dec1): PES can be instantiated using
simple coeﬃcient encoding as in [67]. Here DEnc = F \ {0} and Enc1 outputs
f(X) =
n

i=1
wiXi−1 +
ℓ

i=1
ρiXn+i−1
where w = (wi)i∈[n] and ρ = (ρi)i∈[ℓ]. The decoding algorithm Dec1 outputs
the ﬁrst n coeﬃcients of f. It satisﬁes bounded independence because any set
of ℓevaluations of f are independent of the encoded vector.
– Lagrange Encoding PES2 = (Enc2, Dec2): This encoding method has been
used in e.g. [41,33,26]. Suppose a subset H ⊂F of cardinality n and an
evaluation domain DEnc = F \ (H ∪{0}). Assume that an input w ∈Fn
is indexed by H, i.e., w = (w(a))a∈H. Let La,H ∈F<n[X] for a ∈H be
the Lagrange polynomials corresponding to H and ZH(X) = 
a∈H(X −a)
be a vanishing polynomial of H. Then using ρ = (ρi)i∈[ℓ] as randomness,
Enc2(w, n, ℓ; ρ) outputs
f(X) =

a∈H
w(a) · La,H(X) +
 ℓ

i=1
ρiXi−1

· ZH(X).
The decoding algorithm Dec2 outputs (f(a))a∈H. On the one hand, PES2
satisﬁes correctness since f agrees with w over the forbidden domain SEnc =
H. On the other hand, up to ℓevaluations of f in DEnc reveal nothing about
the encoded vector w. Typically, the evaluation bound ℓshould be set strictly
larger than the number of evaluation proofs the prover explicitly reveals,
because a commitment to the polynomial itself may leak information about
one evaluation (as in the KZG scheme). It turns out that this property helps
us show the hiding property below once combined with a suitable polynomial
commitment scheme.
Evaluation Hiding. We now deﬁne evaluation hiding. Note that this is a
stronger property than the usual hiding deﬁnition (such as the ones in [57,33]):

332
C. Ganesh et al.
essentially, evaluation hiding guarantees that the joint distribution of commit-
ment, evaluation proof, and polynomial evaluations leaks nothing about the
committed polynomial, whereas the usual PCS hiding property does allow eval-
uations to be associated with the committed polynomials. Clearly, if Enc is
deterministic PCS can never be evaluation hiding. This is why the deﬁnition
only makes sense with respect to a speciﬁc encoding scheme. Recent IOP-based
SNARKs such as [41,67,33,26] in fact exploit this property (albeit without for-
mal deﬁnition tailored to PCS) to hide evaluations of a polynomial encoding
secret witness and thus to retain perfect zero knowledge. The deﬁnition is param-
eterized by a function φ : Z+ →Z+ calculating the expansion factor for encoding
randomness: given the number of evaluated points ℓ′ > 0, it determines ℓ> ℓ′
the total number of random ﬁeld elements necessary for hiding the commit-
ted polynomial even after outputting a commitment, ℓ′ evaluation proofs, and ℓ′
evaluations.
Deﬁnition 2.9. (φ-Evaluation Hiding). Let PCS=(KGen, Com, Eval, Check)
= (KGen, Com, Eval, Check) be a polynomial commitment scheme and PES = (Enc,
Dec) be a polynomial encoding scheme. We say PCS is φ-evaluation hiding with
respect to PES if for all PPT adversaries A = (A1, A2),
Pr
⎡
⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎣
b = b′ ∧z ∈D|z|
Enc :
ck ←KGen(1λ, D); (w, z) ←A1(ck);
n := |w|; ℓ:= φ(|z|); d := n + ℓ;
ρw ←$ Fℓ; b ←$ {0, 1};
f ←Enc(b · w, n, ℓ; ρw);
c ←Com(ck, f, d; ρc);
y := f(z);
π ←Eval(ck, c, d, z, y, f; ρc);
b′ ←A2(c, y, π)
⎤
⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎦
≤1
2 + negl(λ)
where A1, A2 share the internal states, y := f(z) denotes setting yi := f(zi) for
all i ∈[|z|], and π ←Eval(ck, c, d, z, y, f; ρc) denotes setting πi ←Eval(ck, c, d,
zi, yi, f; ρc) for all i ∈[|z|].
Non-Extrapolation. We deﬁne a new property related to φ-evaluation hiding
of a PCS scheme with respect to a PES scheme. We require that, given a polyno-
mial commitment and ℓ′ > 0 evaluations and proofs for an encoding of all-zero
vector, no adversary can compute a valid proof for a new evaluation point. In
other words, it is hard for an adversary to extrapolate a new evaluation given
ℓ′ evaluations even when the polynomial is ﬁxed to be the encoding of all-zero
vector. Non-extrapolation naturally follows from evaluation hiding and binding
for many PCS plus PES schemes for the right choice of φ. We show this explicitly
for the KZG polynomial commitment scheme in Section 4.
Deﬁnition 2.10. (φ-Non-Extrapolation). Let PCS
=
(KGen, Com, Eval,
Check)= (KGen, Com, Eval, Check) be a polynomial commitment scheme and

Witness-Succinct Universally-Composable SNARKs
333
PES = (Enc, Dec) be a polynomial encoding scheme. We say PCS supports φ-
non-extrapolation with respect to PES if for all PPT adversaries A = (A1, A2),
and
Pr
⎡
⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎣
v = 1 ∧z ∈D|z|
Enc
∧z∗∈DEnc ∧z∗/∈z
:
ck ←KGen(1λ, D); (n, z) ←A1(ck);
ℓ:= φ(|z|); d := n + ℓ;
ρw ←$ Fℓ;
f ←Enc(0n, n, ℓ; ρw);
c ←Com(ck, f, d; ρc);
y := f(z);
π ←Eval(ck, c, d, z, y, f; ρc);
(z∗, y∗, π∗) ←A2(c, y, π);
v ←Check(ck, c, d, z∗, y∗, π∗)
⎤
⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎦
≤negl(λ)
where A1 and A2 share the internal states, y := f(z), π are as before.
3
Succinctness-Preserving UC NIZK Compiler
In this section, we describe a generic, succinctness-preserving compiler that takes
as inputs: (1) a SIM-EXT NIZK proof system ΠR = (PGen, OSetup, P, V) for
the arithmetic circuit satisﬁability relation R =

(C, w) : C(w) = 1

, and (2) a
PCS = (KGen, Com, Eval, Check) with suitable properties. The resulting protocol,
denoted by ΠUC-R, UC-realizes FNIZK in the (GRO, FSetup))-hybrid model, where
FSetup is described in Fig. 2.
Theorem 3.1. Let ΠR be a SIM-EXT NIZK proof system, for the arithmetic
circuit satisﬁability relation R, with Oλ(1) size proofs. Let PCS be a polyno-
mial commitment scheme with Oλ(1) size commitments and evaluation proofs,
evaluation binding, unique proofs, φ-evaluation hiding, and φ-non-extrapolation
with respect to the encoding scheme PES = (Enc, Dec). Then, ΠUC-R described in
Fig. 4 UC-realizes FNIZK in the ((GRO, FSetup)))-hybrid model for relation R and
has proofs of size Oλ(1).
Proof. We prove the following properties.
Completeness. For a given commitment c and circuit C′, an honest prover fails
to generate a valid proof if, after trying at most T distinct evaluation points zi’s
∈DEnc, it fails to ﬁnd any preimage such that it hashes to 0b. As we will see, T
is required to be only polynomially big in λ and so the prover is guaranteed to
stop in polynomial time. For each iteration i, after ﬁxing c, C′, zi, the values yi =
f(zi) and πi are derived uniquely. Thus, the honest prover fails in this iteration
only if for all the T number of evaluation points GRO(query, (sid, (C′, c, zi, yi, πi,
i))) ̸= 0b . The prover fails overall if it fails in at least one of the iterations. Let
the event of failing in iteration i be denoted by faili. For T = (λ + log(r)) · 2b,
the probability of the honest prover failing can be bounded as below.

334
C. Ganesh et al.
Protocol 1: ΠUC-R
The protocol ΠUC-R is parameterized by: security parameter λ, ﬁnite ﬁeld F, evaluation domain DEnc
for PES, evaluation hiding expansion factor φ : Z+ →Z+, number of parallel repetitions r = r(λ) > 0,
proof-of-work parameter b(λ) > 0, bound T(λ) > 0, and maximum degree bound D > 0 for PCS.
– Proof Upon receiving input (prove, sid, ssid, C, w), ignore if C(w) ̸= 1. Otherwise, Pi does:
1. Send (genparams, sid) to FSetup and wait for answer (params, sid, pp).
2. Send (genkey, sid) to FSetup and wait for answer (comkey, sid, ck).
3. Parse w = w ∈Fn. Let ℓ:= φ(r) and d := n + ℓ. If d > D, abort by outputting (proof, sid,
ssid, ⊥).
4. Generate a polynomial encoding of the witness vector: f ←Enc(w, n, ℓ; ρw), where ρw ←$ Fℓ.
5. Generate a commitment to the polynomial encoding: c ←Com(ck, f, d; ρc), where the random-
ness ρc is sampled uniformly from the domain speciﬁed in PCS.
6. Deﬁne the circuit C′ such that it outputs 1 on input w′ = (w, ρw, ρc) if and only if the following
conditions are met:
C(w) = 1 ∧c = Com(ck, Enc(w, n, ℓ; ρw), d; ρc)
7. Run ΠR.P on input pp, C′, and w′ to obtain a proof π′. Whenever P makes a call to OSetup
with input in, send (setup, sid, in) to receive a response (setup, sid, out) and forward out to P.
8. Initialize empty sets z, y, and πPCS.
9. For each iteration i ∈[r] do:
(a) Initialize counter ctr := 0 and an empty set of used evaluation points Di.
(b) If ctr = T, abort by outputting (proof, sid, ssid, runout_eval).
(c) Sample an evaluation point: zi ←$ DEnc \Di. Update ctr := ctr +1. Update Di := Di ∪{zi}.
(d) Compute yi = f(zi) and evaluation proof πi ←Eval(ck, c, d, zi, yi, f; ρc).
(e) Send (query, (sid, (C′, c, zi, yi, πi, i))) to GRO. Upon receiving v from GRO, if the ﬁrst b bits
of v are not 0b, go to step (b). Otherwise, store zi, yi, and πi in z, y, and πPCS, respectively.
10. Output (proof, sid, ssid, ϖ), where ϖ := (π′, c, z, y, πPCS).
– Veriﬁcation Upon receiving input (verify, sid, ssid, C, ϖ), Pi does:
1 Send (genparams, sid) to FSetup and wait for answer (params, sid, pp).
2 Send (genkey, sid) to FSetup and wait for answer (comkey, sid, ck).
3 Parse ϖ = (π′, c, z, y, πPCS). Derive the witness size n from the description of C. Compute ℓ
and d as Proof would and if d > D abort by outputting (verification, sid, ssid, 0).
4 Deﬁne the circuit C′ as Proof would.
5 Parse z = (zi)i∈[r], y = (yi)i∈[r], and πPCS = (πi)i∈[r].
6 Output (verification, sid, ssid, 1) if all of the following checks pass, otherwise output
(verification, sid, ssid, 0):
(a) ΠR.V on input pp, C′, and π′ outputs 1. Calls to OSetup by V are handled similar to the
above.
(b) For all i ∈[r]: 1 = Check(ck, c, d, zi, yi, πi).
(c) For all i ∈[r]: send (query, (sid, (C′, c, zi, yi, πi, i))) to GRO, and the ﬁrst b bits of the return
value vi are 0b .
Fig. 4. Protocol for UC-secure non-interactive proof in the (GRO, FSetup)-hybrid model.
ΠUC-R internally runs ΠR, PCS, and PES.

Witness-Succinct Universally-Composable SNARKs
335
Pr[fail] ≤
r

i=1
Pr[faili] = r ·

1 −1
2b
T
≈elog(r) ·
1
e(λ+log(r)) ≤2−λ
Thus, an honest prover manages to ﬁnd a preimage of 0b in polynomial time
except with probability 2−λ. We also remark that the completeness error
increases only additively even if the underlying proof system ΠR is statistically
complete.7 We defer the analysis in this case to the full version.
Simulation. We begin by sketching the overall simulation strategy. First, con-
sider simulation for an uncorrupted prover. We simulate the behaviors of FSetup
and π′ component of real-world proofs produced by honest provers using the
underlying NIZK simulator ΠR.S. After the ﬁrst r queries to GRO are pro-
grammed to be 0b, commitments to witness-encoding polynomials are replaced
with simulated commitments to randomized polynomials encoding a dummy
witness (i.e., 0-vector). This transition is justiﬁed by the evaluation hiding prop-
erty (Deﬁnition 2.9). Then we stop programming the GRO responses in the next
hybrid. At this stage, simulation of uncorrupted provers is essentially done.
Next, we describe simulation for an uncorrupted veriﬁer. The requirement here
is to extract a witness from whatever ( ˜C, ˜ϖ = (˜π′, ˜c, ˜z, ˜y, ˜πPCS)) submitted by
uncorrupted veriﬁers unless they have been created during the simulation of uncor-
rupted provers. Here, we ﬁrst rule out the case where at least one of (˜z, ˜y, ˜πPCS)
diﬀers from previously simulated (z, y, πPCS) for the same statement ˜C and ˜c. This
can be shown by constructing a reduction to evaluation binding, evaluation hid-
ing, or unique proof. Finally, the extraction algorithm interpolates the witness-
encoding polynomial f for ˜c by observing GRO queries and decodes f to a candi-
date witness w = w ∈Fn. The analysis concludes by bounding the probability that
extracted w is invalid as follows. We run a non-black-box SIM-EXT extractor EZ of
the underlying proof system against successful Z on statement the extended circuit
˜C′, and proof ˜π′ to obtain another candidate witness w′ = (w∗, ρw, ρc). This fails
in the case that ˜π′ is a previously simulated proof. However, we rule this case out by
relying on non-extrapolation property. Given this, the event ˜C′(w′) = 0 happens
only with negligible probability thanks to the simulation-extractability property.
Hence, assuming ˜C′(w′) = 1, it also holds that ˜C(w∗) = 1 by the deﬁnition of
˜C′. Then we show that w = w∗. Otherwise, one can construct another witness-
encoding polynomial f ∗̸= f that “explains” the same commitment ˜c, breaking
evaluation binding. With this we conclude that the extracted witness w is a valid
witness as w = w∗and ˜C(w∗) = 1.
The above proof sketch describes simulation strategy for a single prover and
veriﬁer. In the formal proof, this is extended to incorporate multiple uncorrupted
provers and veriﬁers in a session.
Let us turn to formal proof. Complete simulation algorithm is given in Fig. 5.
The environment Z starts a session by initializing a certain number of parties and
adversary A. In a particular session sid, the environment Z instructs the parties
with two commands: prove and verify. The real world behavior is as follows.
7 We thank an anonymous reviewer for bringing this observation to our attension.

336
C. Ganesh et al.
An honest party Pi on input (prove, sid, ssid, C, w) from Z executes the honest
prover’s algorithm in ΠUC-R to generate the proof. And on receiving (verify,
sid, ssid, C, ϖ), it veriﬁes by running the honest veriﬁer’s algorithm. In the ideal
world, the honest parties forward their inputs to the functionality FNIZK. The
corrupt parties’ behavior is controlled by A in both the worlds. Within a session
sid, we assume that Z issues s1 queries of the type (prove, sid, ssid, C, w) meant
for an honest party, and s2 of the type (verify, sid, ssid, C, ϖ) for either honest
or corrupt party. Let s = s1 + s2. Proofs for indistinguishability of hybrids are
deferred to the full version [43].
– Hyb0 : This is the real world.
– Hyb1: Replace all the honest parties with a single party B. This party is
responsible for simulating the view of the adversary and the environment
for the rest of the protocol. In particular, B acts on behalf of the honest
parties and does exactly what an honest party would do in the real world. In
addition, it intercepts the GRO queries made by any corrupt party Pi within
the session, forwards it the GRO and relays the response back to Pi. Similarly,
it intercepts all FSetup queries made by Pi in the session and relays it back
and forth between FSetup and Pi.
– Hyb2: Instead of forwarding Pi’s calls to FSetup functionality, B answers them
by executing steps in Simulation of FSetup in Sim. The rest of the execution
remains the same as before, i.e., the B executes on behalf of the honest parties
by executing the honest algorithm.
– For j ∈[s1], Hyb2+j: For the j-th prove command with input (C, w) for an
honest party Pi from Z, replace honest prover’s algorithm with Step 1.-7. in
Simulation of uncorrupted prover (in Sim) for input C.
– For j ∈[s2], Hyb2+s1+j: For the j-th verify command with input (C, ϖ) for
an honest party Pi from Z, replace honest veriﬁer’s algorithm with Step 1-12
in Simulation of uncorrupted veriﬁer (in Sim). We assume that all the
verify commands are made only by the honest parties. This is without loss
of generality as any query that a corrupt party wants to make can instead be
routed through an honest party via the environment.
– Hyb3+s: This is the ideal world execution. Replace B with Sim, where the steps
in Sim are executed for each (prove, sid, ssid, C, w), and (verify, sid, ssid, C,
ϖ) command (as explained in the above hybrids), and sends corresponding
(proof, sid, ssid, Pi, ϖ) and (witness, sid, ssid, Pi, w) to FNIZK.
Succinctness. From completeness and simulation analysis we obtain the follow-
ing constraints for parameters r, b, T: T = (λ + log(r)) · 2b and λ = r(b −log(d)).
Consider the simple parameter choice r = λ. This gives, b = log(d) + 1 and T =
2d(λ+log(λ)). More generally, the parameter choices, r = O (λ/ log(λ)) = Oλ(1),
b = O (log(d) + log(λ)) = Oλ(log(d)), and T = O ((λ + log(λ/ log(λ)))λd) =
Oλ(d) satisﬁes the conditions.
Assume that PCS produces constant size (Oλ(1)) commitments and evaluation
proofs, and ΠR produces Oλ(1) size proofs. Later in Sect. 4 we discuss candidate

Witness-Succinct Universally-Composable SNARKs
337
schemes satisfying these constraints. The total size of the proof ϖ is one com-
mitment c of size Oλ(1), vectors z, y consisting of r ﬁeld elements, r evaluation
proofs πi of size Oλ(1), and one NIZK proof π′ for statement C′. Recall that C′ is
composed of C and the circuit that describes the Com and Enc operations. Thus,
C′ is only O (poly(λ, n)) bigger than C, where n is the witness size. Since ΠR
produces constant size proofs, proof for C′ is also of size Oλ(1). Finally, since,
r = Oλ(1), the size of ϖ remains Oλ(1).
Remark 3.2. Here, r is independent of the degree of the polynomial. The proof
size only grows with the number of repetitions and thus remains independent
of the degree, assuming constant size PCS and NIZK ΠR proofs. However, the
prover’s computational eﬀort increases with the increase in degree d.
4
Instantiating Our Compiler
In this section, we discuss a few candidates for PCS, PES and NIZK schemes for
instantiating our compiler.
4.1
A Candidate PCS and PES Scheme
We show that using KZG commitments [57] as the PCS scheme along with Coef-
ﬁcient (PES1) or Lagrange (PES2) encoding scheme (§ 2.3) satisﬁes all necessary
conditions required to instantiate our compiler, i.e., it is succinct, has evaluation
binding, has unique proofs, is evaluation hiding, and has non-extrapolation.
We describe the polynomial commitment scheme PCSKZG = (KGen, Com,
Eval, Check). The formalization below follows the deterministic scheme of [33,
§C.2] supporting multiple degree bounds up to the maximum degree D. Note
that if d = D, one can skip computing/checking ˆc, ˆπ, and ˆy.
– KGen(1λ, D): Generate the parameters of a bilinear group G = (G1, G2, GT ,
q, g, h, e) where |G1| = |G2| = |GT | = q is prime, ⟨g⟩= G1, ⟨h⟩= G2, and
e : G1 × G2 →GT is an eﬃciently computable, non-degenerate bilinear map.
The group order q also determines F := Fq and a set of supported polynomials
F<D[X]. Sample α ∈F uniformly, and compute σ = (g, gα, . . . , gαD−1, h, hα).
Output ck = (G, σ).
– Com(ck, f, d): On input ck, a polynomial f ∈F<d[X], and a degree bound d ≤
D, compute a shifted polynomial ˆf = XD−d · f, and generate a commitment
as c = (gf(α), g ˆ
f(α)) and output c.
– Eval(ck, c, d, z, f(z), f): Compute ω(X) = (f(X)−f(z))/(X −z) and ˆω(X) =
( ˆf(X) −ˆf(z))/(X −z) where ˆf is computed as above. Output π = (gω(α),
gˆω(α), ˆf(z)).
– Check(ck, c, d, z, y, π): Parse c = (c, ˆc) and π = (π, ˆπ, ˆy). Accept if and only
if e(c/gy, h) = e(π, hα/hz), e(ˆc/gˆy, h) = e(ˆπ, hα/hz), and ˆy = zD−d · y.
The security of PCSKZG relies on the SDH assumption [18].

338
C. Ganesh et al.
Simulator: Sim
Sim is parameterized by λ, F, DEnc, φ, T, r, b, D and has access to the global functionality GRO as ΠUC-R does. It simulates
real prover’s proof for arbitrary (C, w) ∈R, extracts a witness from a valid proof (C, ϖ) chosen by the environment (as
long as it hasn’t been recorded by FNIZK), and simulates the local setup functionality FSetup. It internally keeps track of
the state information st of the underlying NIZK simulator ΠR.S, which is initially set to ε.
– Initialization follows [50]: We use the notation ˜Pi for a dummy party in the ideal process, which simply forwards
inputs and outputs between the environment Z and the ideal functionality FNIZK, and Pi for a simulated party.
Sim starts by invoking a copy of a PPT adversary A. It will run a simulated interaction of A, the parties, and the
environment. In particular, whenever A communicates with Z, Sim just passes this information along. And whenever
A corrupts a party Pi, Sim corrupts the corresponding dummy party ˜Pi.
– Simulation of FSetup
• Parameters Upon receiving input (genparams, sid) from a party Pi, if no pp has been stored, run pp ←
PGen(1λ), let st := pp, and store pp. Send (params, sid, pp) to Pi.
• Commitment Key This is identical to FSetup.
• Setup Upon receiving input (setup, sid, in) from a party Pi, ignore if st has never been initialized with pp.
Otherwise run (out, st) ←ΠR.S(1, st, in) using the current state and send (setup, sid, out) to Pi.
– Handling GRO queries
1. Initialize empty set Qro.
2. Upon receiving input (query, x) from a party Pi, forward it to the GRO and forward the response v back to Pi.
3. Record x in Qro.
– Simulation of uncorrupted prover Upon receiving input (prove, sid, C) from FNIZK:
1. Derive the witness size n from the description of C. Compute ℓand d as Proof of ΠUC-R would and if d > D
abort by outputting (proof, ⊥).
2. Generate a polynomial encoding of dummy witness: f ←Enc(0n, n, ℓ; ρw), where ρw ←$ Fℓ.
3. Generate a commitment to the polynomial encoding as Proof of ΠUC-R would: c ←Com(ck, f, d; ρc).
4. Deﬁne the circuit C′ as Proof of ΠUC-R would.
5. Run ΠR.S(2, st, C′) to obtain a proof-state pair (π′, st).
6. Create z, y, and πPCS as Proof of ΠUC-R would.
7. Send (proof, ϖ) to FNIZK, where ϖ := (π′, c, z, y, πPCS)
– Simulation of uncorrupted veriﬁer Upon receiving input (verify, sid, C, ϖ) from FNIZK:
1 Perform veriﬁcation checks similar to Veriﬁcation of ΠUC-R, but use pp and ck generated during the simulation
of FSetup. Calls to OSetup made by ΠR.V are handled by running (out, st) ←ΠR.S(1, st, in) and forwarding out to
V. If invalid, send (witness, ⊥1) to FNIZK. This will eventually cause FNIZK to output (verification, sid, ssid, 0)
to a dummy party ˜Pi.
2 Parse proof ϖ as (π′, c, z, y, πPCS).
3 Query GRO on (observe, sid) and receive the set of illegitimate queries Q|sid.
4 Update Qro = Qro ∪Q|sid.
5 Deﬁne circuit C′ as Veriﬁcation of ΠUC-R would.
6 Deﬁne Qc as the set of queries in Qro of the form (query, (sid, (C′, c, ·, ·, ·, ·))) such that evaluation proof is valid.
If there are more than one queries with the same evaluation point z then, irrespective of the iteration i, include
only the very ﬁrst such query in Qc.
7 In the set Qc, if for the same (c, z), there exists (y, π) and (y′, π′) such that y ̸= y′ or π ̸= π′, then set w := ⊥2
and go to 12.
8 If (C′, π′) was previously generated by ΠR.S then set w := ⊥3 and go to 12.
9 If |Qc| < d then set w := ⊥4 and go to 12.
10 Otherwise, parse Qc as tuples {(C′, c, zj, yj, πj, ij)}, where each zj is distinct. Collect polynomial evaluations
(zj, yj) and interpolate the polynomial f of degree d −1 such that for j ∈[d], yj = f(zj).
11 If (C, Dec(f)) /∈R set w := ⊥5; Else, set w := Dec(f).
12 Send (witness, w) to FNIZK.
Fig. 5. Simulator for ΠUC-R.

Witness-Succinct Universally-Composable SNARKs
339
Deﬁnition 4.1. (SDH Assumption). The strong Diﬃe-Hellman assumption
(SDH) holds with respect to a bilinear group generator BGen if for all PPT
adversaries A and degree bound D > 0,
Pr

t = g
1
α+c :
G ←BGen(1λ); α ←$ F; σ := ({gαi}D−1
i=0 , hα); (t, c) ←A(G, σ)

≤negl(λ)
Lemma 4.2. PCSKZG is perfectly unique (Deﬁnition 2.7), computationally eval-
uation binding under the SDH assumption, perfectly φ-evaluation hiding (Deﬁni-
tion 2.9), and computationally φ-non-extrapolation (Deﬁnition 2.10) with respect
to any polynomial encoding scheme PES with bounded independence (Deﬁnition
2.8), where φ(r) := r + 1.
Proof. Unique Proof. We prove there exists unique π = (π, ˆπ, ˆy) for a ﬁxed c =
(c, ˆc), d, z, and y. Due to the pairing equation, a valid π is uniquely determined
by (c/gy)
1
α−z . The same holds for ˆπ. Finally, a valid ˆy is uniquely determined
by zD−dy.
Evaluation Binding. Suppose the adversary outputs c = (c, ˆc), d, z, y, y′ ̸= y,
π = (π, ˆπ, ˆy), π = (π′, ˆπ′, ˆy′) such that both proofs verify. If gz = gα, then SDH
is broken with solution (g1/z, 0). Otherwise, we have (π/π′)
1
y′−y = g
1
α−z thanks
to the pairing equation and thus SDH is broken with solution ((π/π′)
1
y′−y , −z).8
Evaluation Hiding. Let r = |z| be the number of evaluations requested by the
adversary. Due to the bounded independence of PES, any set of φ(r) = r + 1
evaluations of encoded polynomial f in DEnc are independently and uniformly
distributed in F. The commitment c = (c, ˆc) leaks at most a single evaluation
f(α). For i ∈[r], each proof (πi, ˆπi, ˆyi) leaks at most f(α) and f(zi). Overall,
the adversary observes at most r + 1 evaluations of f, whose distribution is
independent and uniform in F.
Non-Extrapolation. For KZG polynomial commitment scheme used with PES,
φ(r) := r + 1. We show the following hybrids to prove non-extrapolation.
1. Hyb0: The same as the game deﬁned in Deﬁnition 2.10, i.e., an all-zero vector
of length n is encoded as a polynomial and the adversary A = (A1, A2) is
provided with up to r distinct evaluations plus proofs.
2. Hyb1: The challenger’s code is changed as: Instead of encoding an all-0 vector,
sample d random evaluations yi ←$ F. Recall, degree of the encoded polyno-
mial is denoted by d−1. Let |z|u denote the number of distinct values in z. Let
r′ := |z|u and n′ := d −r′. Note that, when there are no repeat elements in z,
r = r′. Sample n′ evaluation points from Dn′
Enc and interpolate the polynomial
f deﬁned by d points (zi, yi), where the ﬁrst r′ zi’s are from A1, and the
rest are sampled by the challenger. Computing commitments and evaluation
proofs is same as before.
8 Since the reduction only relies on the ﬁrst component of the proof the scheme even
satisﬁes a slightly stronger variant of evaluation binding where the adversary gets to
choose distinct degree bounds for diﬀerent evaluation proofs.

340
C. Ganesh et al.
This hybrid remains indistinguishable from the previous one because of φ-
evaluation hiding of the PCS scheme. In particular, up to r + 1 distinct eval-
uations and proofs do not reveal anything about the underlying committed
polynomial. For i ∈[r], each proof leaks at most one evaluation f(zi) and
f(α). Thus, overall the adversary learns at most r + 1 distinct evaluations
only.
Now, after the execution of Hyb1, A2 outputs a valid evaluation proof for a
new point (z∗, y∗, π∗). Let ˜y = f(z∗). Since, the committed polynomial f is
random and has degree d −1 = n + r, and A learns at most r + 1, there
is at least one degree of freedom corresponding to which the evaluation of f
is uniformly distributed in F. This implies that the probability of y∗= ˜y is
1/|F|, which is negligible. In case, y∗̸= ˜y, the challenger obtains two diﬀerent
evaluations and valid proof for the same point which contradicts evaluation
binding for the PCS scheme. Thus, A wins only with negligible probability.
4.2
Candidate NIZK Schemes
Our compiler lifts any simulation extractable SNARK (SE-SNARK) to a UC
NIZK. Plugging in any SE-SNARK therefore yields a UC NIZK under the same
assumptions. However, the security analyses of many SNARKs in the literature
are in idealized models like the Generic Group Model (GGM) or Algebraic Group
Model (AGM) [40], and such analyses do not provide any guarantees outside of
those models. As we wish to prove composition with respect to any environment
(not just algebraic ones, for instance), the most meaningful candidates to plug
into our compiler are those that provide guarantees about any adversary, even
by making use of (non-black-box) knowledge assumptions.
Immediately Compatible SE-SNARKs. Groth and Maller [53] construct
an SE-SNARK from a knowledge assumption that they formulate, called the
eXtended Power Knowledge of Exponent (XPKE) assumption. Lipmaa [64]
presents SE-SNARKs under ‘hash-algebraic’ knowledge assumptions. Abdol-
maleki et al. [2] show how to lift any zk-SNARK to an SE-SNARK (with
non-black-box extraction), and present a concrete instantiation based on the
zk-SNARK of Groth et al. [52], which in turn relies on knowledge assumptions
that they introduce. One could of course apply Abdolmaleki et al.’s approach
to any Oλ(1)-sized zk-SNARK to obtain a Oλ(1)-sized SE-SNARK under the
same knowledge assumptions. All of these SE-SNARKs are Oλ(1)-sized and can
be plugged into our compiler to obtain Oλ(1)-sized UC NIZKs with provably
secure composition with respect to any environment, under the same knowledge
assumptions.
Future Work: Alternative Instantiations. While we have been focused on
obtaining Oλ(1)-sized UC NIZKs in this paper, our compiler can be more widely
applicable. In general, given a NIZK that produces proofs of size Oλ(f(|C|+|w|))
and a polynomial commitment scheme that produces evaluation proofs of size
Oλ(g(|w|)) for some functions f, g, our compiler produces a UC NIZK (in the
ROM) where the proofs are of size Oλ(f(|C| + |w|) + g(|w|)), under the same

Witness-Succinct Universally-Composable SNARKs
341
setup and knowledge assumptions as the NIZK and polynomial commitment.
With the right input SNARKs, we can obtain witness-succinct UC NIZKs that
have beneﬁts orthogonal to Oλ(1)-sized proofs. Consider the following:
– A ‘transparent’ input SNARK—one that does not require a structured com-
mon reference string—would result in a transparent UC NIZK with the same
succinctness upon applying our compiler. For instance, the recent work of
Arun et al. [4] gives such a constant sized transparent SNARK using class
groups, however their analysis is in the generic group model, and simulation
extractability of their construction has yet to be analyzed.
– If one were to plug in a SNARK that does not require non-black-box
knowledge assumptions, we would obtain a UC NIZK that does not either.
For instance, plugging in Bulletproofs [22] into our compiler with a trans-
parent polynomial commitment scheme (in the ROM) would result in a
Oλ(log(|C| + |w|)) sized transparent UC NIZK in the ROM alone, that does
not rely on any knowledge assumptions, and only assumes the hardness of
computing discrete logarithms. One hurdle to overcome for such an instanti-
ation is that while Bulletproofs are known to be simulation extractable in the
AGM [44], there is at present no such analysis in the random oracle model
alone (to our knowledge).
The scope of this paper is limited to the design and analysis of our general
compiler, and so we leave such custom instantiations to future work.
References
1. Abdalla, M., Barbosa, M., Katz, J., Loss, J., Xu, J.: Algebraic adversaries in
the universal composability framework. In: Tibouchi, M., Wang, H. (eds.) ASI-
ACRYPT 2021, Part III. LNCS, vol. 13092, pp. 311–341. Springer, Heidelberg,
December 2021. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-92078-4_11
2. Abdolmaleki, B., Ramacher, S., Slamanig, D.: Lift-and-shift: obtaining simulation
extractable subversion and updatable SNARKs generically. In: Ligatti, J., Ou, X.,
Katz, J., Vigna, G. (eds.) ACM CCS 2020, pp. 1987–2005. ACM Press, November
2020. https://doi.org/10.1145/3372297.3417228
3. Ames, S., Hazay, C., Ishai, Y., Venkitasubramaniam, M.: Ligero: lightweight sub-
linear arguments without a trusted setup. In: Thuraisingham, B.M., Evans, D.,
Malkin, T., Xu, D. (eds.) ACM CCS 2017, pp. 2087–2104. ACM Press, Oct/Nov
2017. https://doi.org/10.1145/3133956.3134104
4. Arun, A., Ganesh, C., Lokam, S., Mopuri, T., Sridhar, S.: Dew: transparent
constant-sized zkSNARKs. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2022/419 (2022).
https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/419
5. Atapoor, S., Baghery, K.: Simulation extractability in groth’s zk-SNARK. Cryp-
tology ePrint Archive, Report 2019/641 (2019). https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/641
6. Baghery, K.: Subversion-resistant simulation (Knowledge) sound NIZKs. In:
Albrecht, M. (ed.) IMACC 2019. LNCS, vol. 11929, pp. 42–63. Springer, Cham
(2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-35199-1_3
7. Baghery, K., Kohlweiss, M., Siim, J., Volkhov, M.: Another look at extraction
and randomization of Groth’s zk-SNARK. In: Borisov, N., Diaz, C. (eds.) FC 2021.

342
C. Ganesh et al.
LNCS, vol. 12674, pp. 457–475. Springer, Heidelberg (2021). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-662-64322-8_22
8. Baghery, K., Pindado, Z., Ràfols, C.: Simulation extractable versions of groth’s
zk-SNARK revisited. In: Krenn, S., Shulman, H., Vaudenay, S. (eds.) CANS 2020.
LNCS, vol. 12579, pp. 453–461. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-65411-5_22
9. Baghery, K., Sedaghat, M.: Tiramisu: black-box simulation extractable NIZKs
in the updatable CRS model. In: Conti, M., Stevens, M., Krenn, S. (eds.) CANS
2021. LNCS, vol. 13099, pp. 531–551. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-92548-2_28
10. Bellare, M., Rogaway, P.: Random oracles are practical: a paradigm for designing
eﬃcient protocols. In: Denning, D.E., Pyle, R., Ganesan, R., Sandhu, R.S., Ashby,
V. (eds.) ACM CCS 93, pp. 62–73. ACM Press, November 1993. https://doi.org/
10.1145/168588.168596
11. Ben-Sasson, E., Bentov, I., Horesh, Y., Riabzev, M.: Scalable, transparent, and
post-quantum secure computational integrity. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper
2018/046 (2018). https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/046
12. Ben-Sasson, E., Bentov, I., Horesh, Y., Riabzev, M.: Scalable, transparent, and
post-quantum secure computational integrity. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report
2018/046 (2018). https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/046
13. Ben-Sasson, E., Chiesa, A., Gabizon, A., Virza, M.: Quasi-linear size zero knowl-
edge from linear-algebraic PCPs. In: Kushilevitz, E., Malkin, T. (eds.) TCC 2016,
Part II. LNCS, vol. 9563, pp. 33–64. Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-662-49099-0_2
14. Ben-Sasson, E., Chiesa, A., Riabzev, M., Spooner, N., Virza, M., Ward, N.P.:
Aurora: Transparent Succinct Arguments for R1CS. In: Ishai, Y., Rijmen, V.
(eds.) EUROCRYPT 2019, Part I. LNCS, vol. 11476, pp. 103–128. Springer, Cham
(2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-17653-2_4
15. Ben-Sasson, E., Chiesa, A., Spooner, N.: Interactive oracle proofs. In: Hirt, M.,
Smith, A. (eds.) TCC 2016, Part II. LNCS, vol. 9986, pp. 31–60. Springer, Heidel-
berg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53644-5_2
16. Blum, M., Feldman, P., Micali, S.: Proving security against chosen ciphertext
attacks. In: Goldwasser, S. (ed.) CRYPTO 1988. LNCS, vol. 403, pp. 256–268.
Springer, New York (1990). https://doi.org/10.1007/0-387-34799-2_20
17. Blum, M., Santis, A.D., Micali, S., Persiano, G.: Noninteractive zero-knowledge.
SIAM J. Comput. 20(6), 1084–1118 (1991) https://doi.org/10.1137/0220068
18. Boneh, D., Boyen, X.: Eﬃcient selective-id secure identity-based encryption with-
out random oracles. In: Cachin, C., Camenisch, J.L. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2004.
LNCS, vol. 3027, pp. 223–238. Springer, Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-540-24676-3_14
19. Bootle, J., Cerulli, A., Chaidos, P., Groth, J., Petit, C.: Eﬃcient zero-knowledge
arguments for arithmetic circuits in the discrete log setting. In: Fischlin, M., Coron,
J.-S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2016, Part II. LNCS, vol. 9666, pp. 327–357. Springer,
Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-49896-5_12
20. Bowe, S., Gabizon, A.: Making groth’s zk-snark simulation extractable in the ran-
dom oracle model. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2018/187 (2018). https://
eprint.iacr.org/2018/187
21. Bowe, S., Gabizon, A., Green, M.D.: A multi-party protocol for constructing the
public parameters of the pinocchio zk-SNARK. In: Zohar, A., Eyal, I., Teague, V.,
Clark, J., Bracciali, A., Pintore, F., Sala, M. (eds.) FC 2018. LNCS, vol. 10958,

Witness-Succinct Universally-Composable SNARKs
343
pp. 64–77. Springer, Heidelberg (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-58820-
8_5
22. Bünz, B., Bootle, J., Boneh, D., Poelstra, A., Wuille, P., Maxwell, G.: Bulletproofs:
short proofs for conﬁdential transactions and more. In: 2018 IEEE Symposium
on Security and Privacy, pp. 315–334. IEEE Computer Society Press, May 2018.
https://doi.org/10.1109/SP.2018.00020
23. Bünz, B., Chiesa, A., Mishra, P., Spooner, N.: Recursive proof composition from
accumulation schemes. In: Pass, R., Pietrzak, K. (eds.) TCC 2020, Part II. LNCS,
vol. 12551, pp. 1–18. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
64378-2_1
24. Camenisch, J., Damgård, I.: Veriﬁable encryption, group encryption, and their
applications to separable group signatures and signature sharing schemes. In:
Okamoto, T. (ed.) ASIACRYPT 2000. LNCS, vol. 1976, pp. 331–345. Springer,
Heidelberg (2000). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44448-3_25
25. Camenisch, J., Drijvers, M., Gagliardoni, T., Lehmann, A., Neven, G.: The won-
derful world of global random oracles. In: Nielsen, J.B., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EURO-
CRYPT 2018, Part I. LNCS, vol. 10820, pp. 280–312. Springer, Cham (2018).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-78381-9_11
26. Campanelli, M., Faonio, A., Fiore, D., Querol, A., Rodríguez, H.: Lunar: a tool-
box for more eﬃcient universal and updatable zkSNARKs and commit-and-prove
extensions. In: Tibouchi, M., Wang, H. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2021, Part III. LNCS,
vol. 13092, pp. 3–33. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
92078-4_1
27. Campanelli, M., Ganesh, C., Khoshakhlagh, H., Siim, J.: Impossibilities in succinct
arguments: Black-box extraction and more. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report
2022/638 (2022). https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/638
28. Canetti, R.: Universally composable security: a new paradigm for cryptographic
protocols. In: 42nd FOCS, pp. 136–145. IEEE Computer Society Press, October
2001. https://doi.org/10.1109/SFCS.2001.959888
29. Canetti, R., Dodis, Y., Pass, R., Walﬁsh, S.: Universally composable security
with global setup. In: Vadhan, S.P. (ed.) TCC 2007. LNCS, vol. 4392, pp. 61–
85. Springer, Heidelberg (2007). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-70936-7_4
30. Canetti, R., Jain, A., Scafuro, A.: Practical UC security with a global random
oracle. In: Ahn, G.J., Yung, M., Li, N. (eds.) ACM CCS 2014. pp. 597–608. ACM
Press, November 2014. https://doi.org/10.1145/2660267.2660374
31. Canetti, R., Lindell, Y., Ostrovsky, R., Sahai, A.: Universally composable two-
party and multi-party secure computation. In: 34th ACM STOC, pp. 494–503.
ACM Press, May 2002. https://doi.org/10.1145/509907.509980
32. Canetti, R., Sarkar, P., Wang, X.: Triply adaptive UC NIZK. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Report 2020/1212 (2020). https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/1212
33. Chiesa, A., Hu, Y., Maller, M., Mishra, P., Vesely, N., Ward, N.: Marlin: prepro-
cessing zkSNARKs with universal and updatable SRS. In: Canteaut, A., Ishai, Y.
(eds.) EUROCRYPT 2020, Part I. LNCS, vol. 12105, pp. 738–768. Springer, Cham
(2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-45721-1_26
34. Chiesa, A., Ojha, D., Spooner, N.: Fractal: post-quantum and transparent recur-
sive proofs from holography. In: Canteaut, A., Ishai, Y. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2020,
Part I. LNCS, vol. 12105, pp. 769–793. Springer, Cham (2020). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-030-45721-1_27
35. De Santis, A., Di Crescenzo, G., Ostrovsky, R., Persiano, G., Sahai, A.: Robust non-
interactive zero knowledge. In: Kilian, J. (ed.) CRYPTO 2001. LNCS, vol. 2139, pp.
566–598. Springer, Heidelberg (2001). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44647-8_33

344
C. Ganesh et al.
36. Dodis, Y., Shoup, V., Walﬁsh, S.: Eﬃcient constructions of composable commit-
ments and zero-knowledge proofs. In: Wagner, D. (ed.) CRYPTO 2008. LNCS,
vol. 5157, pp. 515–535. Springer, Heidelberg (2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-540-85174-5_29
37. Dolev, D., Dwork, C., Naor, M.: Non-malleable cryptography (extended abstract).
In: 23rd ACM STOC, pp. 542–552. ACM Press, May 1991. https://doi.org/10.
1145/103418.103474
38. Faust, S., Kohlweiss, M., Marson, G.A., Venturi, D.: On the non-malleability of
the ﬁat-shamir transform. In: Galbraith, S., Nandi, M. (eds.) INDOCRYPT 2012.
LNCS, vol. 7668, pp. 60–79. Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-642-34931-7_5
39. Fischlin, M.: Communication-eﬃcient non-interactive proofs of knowledge with
online extractors. In: Shoup, V. (ed.) CRYPTO 2005. LNCS, vol. 3621, pp. 152–
168. Springer, Heidelberg (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/11535218_10
40. Fuchsbauer, G., Kiltz, E., Loss, J.: The Algebraic Group Model and its Appli-
cations. In: Shacham, H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2018, Part II. LNCS,
vol. 10992, pp. 33–62. Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
96881-0_2
41. Gabizon, A., Williamson, Z.J., Ciobotaru, O.: PLONK: permutations over
lagrange-bases for oecumenical noninteractive arguments of knowledge. Cryptology
ePrint Archive, Report 2019/953 (2019). https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/953
42. Ganesh, C., Khoshakhlagh, H., Kohlweiss, M., Nitulescu, A., Zajac, M.: What
makes ﬁat-shamir zksnarks (updatable SRS) simulation extractable? In: Galdi, C.,
Jarecki, S. (eds.) SCN 2022. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 13409, pp.
735–760. Springer, Cham (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-14791-3_32
43. Ganesh, C., Kondi, Y., Orlandi, C., Pancholi, M., Takahashi, A., Tschudi, D.:
Witness-succinct universally-composable snarks. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper
2022/1618 (2022). https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/1618
44. Ganesh, C., Orlandi, C., Pancholi, M., Takahashi, A., Tschudi, D.: Fiat-shamir
bulletproofs are non-malleable (in the algebraic group model). In: Dunkelman,
O., Dziembowski, S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2022, Part II. LNCS, vol. 13276, pp.
397–426. Springer, Heidelberg, May/June 2022. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
031-07085-3_14
45. Ganesh, C., Orlandi, C., Pancholi, M., Takahashi, A., Tschudi, D.: Fiat-shamir
bulletproofs are non-malleable (in the random oracle model). Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Paper 2023/147 (2023). https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/147
46. Garay, J.A., MacKenzie, P., Yang, K.: Strengthening Zero-Knowledge Protocols
Using Signatures. J. Cryptology 19(2), 169–209 (2005). https://doi.org/10.1007/
s00145-005-0307-3
47. Gennaro, R., Gentry, C., Parno, B., Raykova, M.: Quadratic span programs and
succinct NIZKs without PCPs. In: Johansson, T., Nguyen, P.Q. (eds.) EURO-
CRYPT 2013. LNCS, vol. 7881, pp. 626–645. Springer, Heidelberg (2013). https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-38348-9_37
48. Goldreich, O., Håstad, J.: On the complexity of interactive proofs with bounded
communication. Inf. Process. Lett. 67(4), 205–214 (1998)
49. Goldreich, O., Vadhan, S., Wigderson, A.: On interactive proofs with a laconic
prover. Comput. Complexity 11(1), 1–53 (2002)
50. Groth, J.: Simulation-sound NIZK proofs for a practical language and constant size
group signatures. In: Lai, X., Chen, K. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2006. LNCS, vol. 4284,
pp. 444–459. Springer, Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/10.1007/11935230_29

Witness-Succinct Universally-Composable SNARKs
345
51. Groth, J.: On the size of pairing-based non-interactive arguments. In: Fischlin, M.,
Coron, J.-S. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2016, Part II. LNCS, vol. 9666, pp. 305–326.
Springer, Heidelberg (2016). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-49896-5_11
52. Groth, J., Kohlweiss, M., Maller, M., Meiklejohn, S., Miers, I.: Updatable and
universal common reference strings with applications to zk-SNARKs. In: Shacham,
H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2018, Part III. LNCS, vol. 10993, pp. 698–728.
Springer, Cham (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-96878-0_24
53. Groth, J., Maller, M.: Snarky signatures: minimal signatures of knowledge from
simulation-extractable SNARKs. In: Katz, J., Shacham, H. (eds.) CRYPTO 2017,
Part II. LNCS, vol. 10402, pp. 581–612. Springer, Cham (2017). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-319-63715-0_20
54. Groth, J., Ostrovsky, R., Sahai, A.: Perfect non-interactive zero knowledge for NP.
In: Vaudenay, S. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2006. LNCS, vol. 4004, pp. 339–358. Springer,
Heidelberg (2006). https://doi.org/10.1007/11761679_21
55. Groth, J., Ostrovsky, R., Sahai, A.: New techniques for noninteractive zero-
knowledge. J. ACM 59(3), 11:1–11:35 (2012). https://doi.org/10.1145/2220357.
2220358
56. Jain, A., Pandey, O.: Non-malleable zero knowledge: black-box constructions and
deﬁnitional relationships. In: Abdalla, M., De Prisco, R. (eds.) SCN 2014. LNCS,
vol. 8642, pp. 435–454. Springer, Cham (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
10879-7_25
57. Kate, A., Zaverucha, G.M., Goldberg, I.: Constant-size commitments to polyno-
mials and their applications. In: Abe, M. (ed.) ASIACRYPT 2010. LNCS, vol.
6477, pp. 177–194. Springer, Heidelberg (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
642-17373-8_11
58. Katsumata, S.: A new simple technique to bootstrap various lattice zero-knowledge
proofs to QROM secure NIZKs. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) CRYPTO 2021,
Part II. LNCS, vol. 12826, pp. 580–610. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-030-84245-1_20
59. Kattis, A., Panarin, K., Vlasov, A.: RedShift: transparent SNARKs from list poly-
nomial commitment IOPs. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2019/1400 (2019).
https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/1400
60. Kerber, T., Kiayias, A., Kohlweiss, M.: Composition with knowledge assumptions.
In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) CRYPTO 2021, Part IV. LNCS, vol. 12828, pp.
364–393. Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84259-8_13
61. Kilian, J.: A note on eﬃcient zero-knowledge proofs and arguments (extended
abstract). In: 24th ACM STOC, pp. 723–732. ACM Press, May 1992. https://doi.
org/10.1145/129712.129782
62. Kondi, Y., shelat, a.: Improved straight-line extraction in the random oracle model
with applications to signature aggregation. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report
2022/393 (2022). https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/393
63. Kosba, A., et al.: C∅c∅: a framework for building composable zero-knowledge
proofs. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2015/1093 (2015), https://eprint.iacr.
org/2015/1093
64. Lipmaa, H.: Simulation-extractable SNARKs revisited. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Report 2019/612 (2019). https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/612
65. Lysyanskaya, A., Rosenbloom, L.N.: Eﬃcient and universally composable non-
interactive zero-knowledge proofs of knowledge with security against adaptive cor-
ruptions. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2022/1484 (2022). https://eprint.iacr.
org/2022/1484

346
C. Ganesh et al.
66. Lysyanskaya, A., Rosenbloom, L.N.: Universally composable sigma-protocols in the
global random-oracle model. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2022/290 (2022).
https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/290
67. Maller, M., Bowe, S., Kohlweiss, M., Meiklejohn, S.: Sonic: zero-knowledge
SNARKs from linear-size universal and updatable structured reference strings. In:
Cavallaro, L., Kinder, J., Wang, X., Katz, J. (eds.) ACM CCS 2019. pp. 2111–2128.
ACM Press, November 2019. https://doi.org/10.1145/3319535.3339817
68. Maurer, U.: Constructive cryptography – a new paradigm for security deﬁnitions
and proofs. In: Mödersheim, S., Palamidessi, C. (eds.) TOSCA 2011. LNCS, vol.
6993, pp. 33–56. Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-
27375-9_3
69. Micali, S.: Computationally sound proofs. SIAM J. Comput. 30(4), 1253–1298
(2000) https://doi.org/10.1137/S0097539795284959
70. Parno, B., Howell, J., Gentry, C., Raykova, M.: Pinocchio: nearly practical veriﬁ-
able computation. In: 2013 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy. pp. 238–252.
IEEE Computer Society Press, May 2013. https://doi.org/10.1109/SP.2013.47
71. Pass, R.: On deniability in the common reference string and random oracle model.
In: Boneh, D. (ed.) CRYPTO 2003. LNCS, vol. 2729, pp. 316–337. Springer, Hei-
delberg (2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-45146-4_19
72. Pass, R., Rosen, A.: New and improved constructions of non-malleable crypto-
graphic protocols. In: Gabow, H.N., Fagin, R. (eds.) 37th ACM STOC, pp. 533–
542. ACM Press, May 2005. https://doi.org/10.1145/1060590.1060670
73. Sahai, A.: Non-malleable non-interactive zero knowledge and adaptive chosen-
ciphertext security. In: 40th FOCS, pp. 543–553. IEEE Computer Society Press,
October 1999. https://doi.org/10.1109/SFFCS.1999.814628
74. Unruh, D.: Non-interactive zero-knowledge proofs in the quantum random oracle
model. In: Oswald, E., Fischlin, M. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2015, Part II. LNCS,
vol. 9057, pp. 755–784. Springer, Heidelberg (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-662-46803-6_25

