How Not to Protect Your IP – An Industry-Wide
Break of IEEE 1735 Implementations
Julian Speith∗†
, Florian Schweins†
, Maik Ender∗†
, Marc Fyrbiak∗
, Alexander May†
, Christof Paar∗†
∗Max Planck Institute for Security and Privacy, Bochum, Germany,
julian.speith@mpi-sp.org, maik.ender@mpi-sp.org, marc.fyrbiak@mpi-sp.org, christof.paar@mpi-sp.org
†Horst G¨ortz Institute for IT Security, Ruhr University Bochum, Bochum, Germany,
ﬂorian.schweins@rub.de, alex.may@rub.de
Abstract—Modern hardware systems are composed of a variety
of third-party Intellectual Property (IP) cores to implement
their overall functionality. Since hardware design is a globalized
process involving various (untrusted) stakeholders, a secure
management of the valuable IP between authors and users
is inevitable to protect them from unauthorized access and
modiﬁcation. To this end, the widely adopted IEEE standard
1735-2014 was created to ensure conﬁdentiality and integrity.
In this paper, we outline structural weaknesses in IEEE 1735
that cannot be ﬁxed with cryptographic solutions (given the
contemporary hardware design process) and thus render the
standard inherently insecure. We practically demonstrate the
weaknesses by recovering the private keys of IEEE 1735 im-
plementations from major Electronic Design Automation (EDA)
tool vendors, namely Intel, Xilinx, Cadence, Siemens, Microsemi,
and Lattice, while results on a seventh case study are withheld.
As a consequence, we can decrypt, modify, and re-encrypt all
allegedly protected IP cores designed for the respective tools, thus
leading to an industry-wide break. As part of this analysis, we are
the ﬁrst to publicly disclose three RSA-based white-box schemes
that are used in real-world products and present cryptanalytical
attacks for all of them, ﬁnally resulting in key recovery.
Index Terms—Hardware IP Protection, IEEE Standard 1735-
2014, Reverse Engineering, Key Extraction, White-Box RSA
I. INTRODUCTION
The emerging digital society is based on a myriad of
interconnected computers and embedded devices built from
Integrated Circuits (ICs). Modern ICs are increasingly realized
as Systems-on-Chip (SoCs), i.e., a single chip that incorporates
a large number of different functional modules, referred to as
IP cores. In particular, modern SoCs can consist of hundreds
of IP cores that implement a wide range of functionalities,
from simple periphery, to cryptographic co-processors, neural
network accelerators, or even entire CPUs. Given both the
increasing complexity of modern hardware and strict time-to-
market requirements [6], hardware designers resort to the re-
use of well-proven IP cores, often from third-party providers.
However, the use of third-party IP cores provides several
security challenges from both the IP author as well as the
IP user perspective [6] due to the globalized hardware design
and manufacturing process comprising numerous untrusted
stakeholders. For example, the author wants to safeguard their
Funded by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research
Foundation) under Germany´s Excellence Strategy - EXC 2092 CASA -
390781972 and ERC grant 695022.
valuable IP so that no other party can infringe their IP or
its license. Simultaneously, the user wants to assure that the
purchased IP is not modiﬁed by another stakeholder.
To address the secure management of hardware IP, IEEE
standard 1735-2014 [31] was established to provide aforemen-
tioned conﬁdentiality and integrity while ensuring interoper-
ability between EDA tools. The standard is supported by all
major tool vendors and is trusted throughout the industry [26].
At CCS’17, Chhotaray et al. [17] presented an in-depth
analysis of IEEE 1735. The authors identiﬁed exploitable
weaknesses with a focus on cryptographic ﬂaws (e.g., a
padding-oracle attack on non-authenticated symmetric encryp-
tion). They recommend using secure cryptographic algorithms,
i.e., authenticated encryption, to protect against these attacks:
“From a cryptographic perspective, the solution is
simple. Use a provably secure authenticated encryp-
tion scheme that supports associated data (AEAD)
to encrypt the sensitive IP [...].” [17]
Our work proves this statement to be insufﬁcient in practice.
We go considerably further and question the standard’s general
security (even assuming strong cryptographic primitives) due
to its foundational assumptions about the trust model and
execution environment:
“A decryption tool shall manage its secret or secrets
in a private, secure manner. It may harden such
secrets directly into its software or use an external
persistent storage scheme.” [31, p. 20]
Here, the crucial decryption module is embedded within an
EDA tool that is typically executed in an untrusted, adversary-
controlled environment. This raises the question of how such
a module can be protected so that an adversary cannot exploit
the decryption software and disclose valuable IP.
Goals and Contributions. In this paper, we analyze the
security of the IEEE standard 1735-2014 and its implemen-
tations. Our goal is to assess the standard’s trust model
assumption with respect to the capabilities of real-world
adversaries. To this end, we review the standard’s recommen-
dations on both the handling of cryptographic key material
and the toolchain execution environment, with a particular
focus on adversaries with static and dynamic software reverse-
engineering capabilities. In the case studies listed in Table I,
we investigate how the standard is realized in market-leading
1
1656
2022 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP)
© 2022, Julian Speith. Under license to IEEE.
DOI 10.1109/SP46214.2022.00062
2022 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) | 978-1-6654-1316-9/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/SP46214.2022.9833605
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOSTON UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on October 01,2025 at 19:25:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

TABLE I
OVERVIEW OF OUR CASE STUDIES ON IEEE 1735 IMPLEMENTATIONS OF MAJOR EDA TOOLS. FOR EACH TOOL, WE LIST WHETHER WE DEFEATED THE
ENCOUNTERED SOFTWARE PROTECTIONS () OR NO SUCH PROTECTIONS WERE PRESENT AT THE TIME OF ANALYSIS (-). ADDITIONALLY, WE PROVIDE
THE NUMBER OF RECOVERED PRIVATE KEYS AND THE APPROXIMATED TIME REQUIRED TO PERFORM EACH CASE STUDY.
EDA Tool
Defeated Software Protections
#Recovered
Time
Obfuscation
Anti-Debugging
White-Box
Private Keys
Estimate
Intel Quartus Prime
-
-
-
1
1 hour
Cadence Xcelium
-
-
-
2
1 hour
Lattice Radiant
-
-
-
1
3 hours
Microsemi Libero SoC


()
1
1 week
Siemens ModelSim
-
-

3
3 days
Xilinx Vivado Design Suite



5
2 weeks
Field-Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) and Application-
Speciﬁc Integrated Circuit (ASIC) design and veriﬁcation
tools. Based on software reverse engineering, we reveal all
cryptographic private keys of the analyzed EDA tools within
weeks, days, or sometimes even just hours. In particular,
we bypass a wide variety of software protection measures,
including three different white-box RSA implementations.
Thereby, we provide the ﬁrst-ever description of public-key
white-box schemes used in real-world applications. We then
analyze these schemes and provide multiple attacks, each of
which is able to invalidate the standard’s security properties
of IP conﬁdentiality and integrity. Our main contributions are:
• Insecurity of IEEE 1735. We describe ﬂaws in the cur-
rent IEEE standard 1735-2014 for hardware IP protection.
Our investigation focuses on the foundational trust model
assumptions, i.e., the untrusted execution environment,
the recommendation of hard-coded keys, and the lack of
guidance on a secure implementation (see Section III).
We argue that these trust model assumptions cannot be
addressed with cryptographic solutions given the current
hardware design process and thus render the standard
inherently insecure.
• Case Studies on Market-Leading EDA Tools. We ana-
lyze implementations of IEEE 1735 in six market-leading
EDA tools from Xilinx, Intel, Cadence, Siemens, Lattice,
and Microsemi. Thereby, we extract all cryptographic
private keys from these tools leading to a full break of
the conﬁdentiality and integrity of the protected IP.
• Insecure RSA White-Boxes. We analyze three white-box
RSA schemes and present distinct cryptanalytical attacks
for each of them: a (1) code-lifting attack that yields a
decryption oracle, and a (2) key extraction attack that
recovers the hidden secret key within seconds. Our key
extraction attacks exploit knowledge on the custom RSA
structure to extract the secret key from the obfuscated
decryption functions.
Responsible Disclosure. Following standard responsible
disclosure principles, we reported the discovered security vul-
nerabilities to the affected vendors at least three months ahead
of publication, through the vendors’ vulnerability disclosure
programs or technical support platforms. All vendors named
in this paper have acknowledged our ﬁndings, are working
towards (or have already implemented) mitigation improve-
ments, and have agreed to publication. By arrangement with
the vendors, we sometimes refrain from providing a detailed
elaboration on our reverse engineering process, as this work is
not meant to act as a guide to IP theft. Hence, some statements
are deliberately kept vague.
II. BACKGROUND
In this section, we provide background on the hardware
design ﬂow and the role of IP cores. We also summarize key
aspects of IEEE standard 1735-2014 and brieﬂy review white-
box cryptography.
A. Hardware Design Flow
Hardware design generally follows a multi-stage process
distributed across a global supply chain. We distinguish be-
tween ASICs that are ﬁxed in their functionality and FPGAs,
i.e., reconﬁgurable ICs that are programmed using a so called
bitstream.
Design Flow. First, a hardware design is speciﬁed and de-
scribed in an Hardware Description Language (HDL) such as
(System)Verilog or VHDL. Next, the design ﬁles are analyzed
and transformed by a so-called synthesizer provided by the
EDA vendor. This synthesis step yields a gate-level netlist that
is composed of logic gates and their interconnections. Next,
the netlist is implemented, i.e., technology-mapped, placed,
and routed using tools appropriate for the selected technology.
For FPGAs, the output of this implementation process is a
bitstream ﬁle which is then programmed onto the FPGA. ASIC
implementation yields a layout ﬁle (e.g., GDSII) describing the
technology-mapped and placed-and-routed netlist then sent to
a fab for manufacturing, see Figure 1.
Types of IP Cores. Third-party IP can be integrated into the
hardware design throughout the entire design process. Three
different types of IP are distinguished depending on their level
of abstraction, cf. Figure 1. Soft IP cores are synthesizable
descriptions of an IP core. They offer ﬂexibility to the IP user
and may be implemented on a wide range of architectures and
technologies. Firm IP cores are synthesized gate-level netlists
and therefore less ﬂexible than soft IP. The reconstruction of
their high-level description is related to the domain of netlist
reverse engineering [2, 40, 52]. For FPGAs, hard IP cores refer
to additional on-device circuitry that can merely be activated
and conﬁgured by the bitstream, but cannot be retroﬁtted to the
2
1657
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOSTON UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on October 01,2025 at 19:25:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Specification
& Design
Design
Sources
Synthesis
Bitstream/
GDSII
Implemen-
tation
Programming/
Manufacturing
Gate Level
Netlist
Soft IP
Firm IP
Hard IP
Fig. 1. High-level view of the hardware design ﬂow for FPGAs and ASICs. Different types of third-party IP can be integrated into the design depending on
the design stage. IEEE 1735 can be applied to protect both soft and ﬁrm IP.
device. In contrast, hard IPs in the ASIC context comprise a
technology-mapped and placed-and-routed design commonly
provided as a black-box by manufacturers.
B. IEEE Standard 1735-2014
The IEEE standard 1735-2014 [31], also referred to as
“IEEE Recommended Practice for Encryption and Manage-
ment of Electronic Design Intellectual Property (IP)”, refers
to a set of guidelines on how to manage and protect electronic
design IP. It has been approved and published in late 2015
to promote security and improve interoperability throughout
the hardware industry and remains in effect ever since. Note
that, although never explicitly being mentioned in IEEE 1735,
its setting is related to classical Digital Rights Management
(DRM). A revision of the standard has been announced for
2020 [37], but has since been delayed.
Stakeholders. The standard deﬁnes three main stakeholders.
An IP author is the creator and legal owner of an IP core.
Safeguarding the IP is a central objective for the IP author in
order to protect business interests and prevent potential losses
from infringements. An IP user acquires rights to an IP core
through interaction with the IP author. A key interest of the
IP user is to minimize costs associated with a well-proven
IP core. Hence, from a business perspective, there is a tension
between an IP author and its users. For this reason, IEEE 1735
explicitly represents an IP user as a potential attacker with the
goal of infringing on the IP author’s design. The standard
counters this threat by use of cryptographic protections to
safeguard the IP core from illegitimate use. Lastly, the tool
vendor provides design tools that enable the IP user to interact
with the IP of an author.
Digital Envelope. IEEE 1735 dictates the use of a digital
envelope to protect the IP itself as well as the rights granted by
the IP author. Hence, the standard speciﬁes a uniﬁed format for
the protected IP to ensure security and compatibility between
the stakeholders and their tools. It thereby resorts to the use of
a mark-up format to customize properties of the IP core as well
as the applied protection mechanisms. IEEE 1735 supports
both VHDL and (System)Verilog. Hence, its scope is limited
to soft and ﬁrm IP cores, as illustrated by the locks in Figure 1.
A simpliﬁed illustration of the digital envelope is provided
in Figure 2. The envelope is split into two sections, the ﬁrst
of which speciﬁes access rights and additional properties. It
comprises a number of right blocks that specify the rights
granted to the IP user by its author within each supported
EDA tool. For example, such rights can be used to limit the
HMAC
AES-CBC
Rights & Properties
Common Block
Session Key
Tool Block 1
Tool Block 2
Session Key
...
Protected IP Data
RSA
encrypted
Fig. 2. General structure of the digital envelope as speciﬁed by IEEE 1735.
The envelope comprises the common and tool-speciﬁc right blocks, the
encrypted session keys, and the protected IP data.
visible information during simulation or synthesis. There are
two different kinds of rights: those that are common across
all supported tools denoted as common block and those that
are speciﬁc to a particular tool denoted as tool block. The
digital envelope comprises one such tool block for every
supported EDA tool. Thereby, the standard allows each tool
to introduce custom, tool-speciﬁc rights. The second section
of the envelope contains the actual IP data in encrypted form.
Conﬁdentiality and Integrity. As the IP data section
contains the valuable IP sources, upholding its conﬁdentiality
is crucial. Therefore, the IP data is encrypted using AES-
CBC and a unique 128- or 256-bit symmetric session key.
This session key is stored within each vendor’s tool block
after being encrypted using the corresponding tool vendor’s
RSA public key. IEEE 1735 mandates the use of RSA keys
comprising no less than 2048 bits, though this is not always
strictly followed, as is evident from our case studies. Each tool
block contains a unique identiﬁer for the required RSA key
pair to support multiple different keys per vendor and facilitate
adding new keys over time.
For each tool, the session key is also used to compute an
HMAC over the common block as well as its tool block using
SHA-256 or SHA-512. Consequently, the session key needs to
be decrypted before the integrity of the RSA key identiﬁer is
veriﬁed. The HMAC allows each tool to verify the integrity of
the common rights and its own tool-speciﬁc rights, but not the
IP data itself. Notably, IEEE 1735 does not enforce integrity
of the encrypted IP data and offers no authenticity [17]. We
3
1658
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOSTON UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on October 01,2025 at 19:25:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

emphasize that an exposed session key implies a break of the
conﬁdentiality and integrity of the protected IP.
Most IPs support multiple vendors, hence leakage of a single
private key may directly compromise security of the entire
scheme. Therefore, the secure handling of each and every
private key is vital. As not only the private key but also
the plaintext IP reside in program memory during decryption,
recovery of the plaintext IP poses an additional threat.
C. RSA
In anticipation of our case studies in Sections IV to IX,
we brieﬂy recall RSA encryption and Miller’s factorization
algorithm [43].
Plain RSA. Let N = pq be an RSA modulus. We denote
by ZN the ring of integers modulo N with the multiplicative
group Z∗
N of order Φ(N) = (p −1)(q −1). Let e ∈Z∗
Φ(N) be
a public encryption exponent with corresponding RSA private
key d satisfying ed = 1 mod Φ(N). The RSA encryption
function is the map ZN →ZN, m 7→me mod N. The RSA
decryption function is the map ZN →ZN, c 7→cd mod N.
Private Key Implies Factorization. Given public expo-
nent e and private key d, Miller’s well-known probabilistic
reduction from RSA secret recovery to factoring [43] can be
applied. Let ed −1 = 2kt = 0 mod N with odd t. We take a
random g ∈Z∗
N until gt ̸= 1 mod N. Let us then square gt
until we obtain 1 as result. Let c < k be minimal such that
g2c+1t = 1 mod N. Since 1 has four square roots modulo N,
we obtain g2ct ̸= ±1 mod N with probability 1
2. In this case
gcd(g2ct ± 1, N) = {p, q}
directly reveals the factorization of N = pq.
D. White-Box Cryptography
We now recall standard notions of white-box cryptography
in anticipation of the white-box case studies in Sections VII,
VIII and IX. White-box cryptography and the associated
white-box attacker model were introduced in the seminal work
of Chow et al. [18, 19]. The goal of white-box cryptography
is to protect a cryptographic secret such as a key within the
implementation of a cryptographic algorithm itself.
Attacker Model. In traditional black-box scenarios, the
attacker has access to the cryptographic algorithm, can adap-
tively choose input plaintexts and/or ciphertexts, and observe
the algorithm outputs. However, the dynamic execution of the
algorithm remains hidden from their eyes. In contrast, a white-
box setting grants the attacker full access to the software
encompassing the cryptographic algorithm and its execution
environment. The attacker may thus perform static code anal-
ysis, arbitrarily execute the white-box algorithm, examine
intermediate values in memory, and dynamically manipulate
these values during execution. White-box cryptography aims
to provide security even in such hostile environments.
Security Goals. The two primary security goals of white-
box cryptography are formalized as security against key-
extraction and security against code-lifting [18, 19]. A white-
box cryptographic algorithm is secure against key extraction,
if and only if an attacker cannot recover the embedded crypto-
graphic secret from the implementation. However, a white-box
scheme that is only secure against key extraction might not
offer any security at all. Even without any knowledge of the
secret key, an attacker that can extract the white-box algorithm
itself can then execute the algorithm and thereby yield an
encryption/decryption oracle. A white-box cryptographic algo-
rithm that provides security against code-lifting attacks cannot
be extracted, i.e., lifted, from its application while maintaining
functionality.
Public-Key Cryptography. Most academic work on the
topic deals with symmetric white-box techniques, the only
exception – to the best of our knowledge – is the work by
Barthelemy [4] based on a lattice-based scheme. Furthermore,
the CHES 2021 WhibOx contest [23] aimed to obfuscate an
ECDSA signature scheme to be secure in a white-box setting,
however, all submissions have successfully been attacked after
at most two days. While the symmetric white-box setting has
extensively been formalized [3, 9, 24, 49], public-key white-
box cryptography lacks any such formalization. Despite these
shortcomings and the limited availability of public research,
numerous companies offer public-key white-box solutions [25,
35, 54], and hold patents in that area [28, 29, 30, 41, 61].
III. ATTACKS ON IEEE STANDARD 1735-2014
We now assess the security of IEEE standard 1735-2014. To
this end, we ﬁrst outline the classic Man-at-the-End (MATE)
attacker model and then identify foundational security ﬂaws
in the trust model assumption and the key management of
IEEE 1735. The case studies presented in Sections IV to IX
then demonstrate the severe implications of the discovered
ﬂaws in practice.
A. Attacker Model
Attacker Capabilities. Our attacker model is inspired by
the well-established MATE attack scenario [1]. We consider
an attacker with full control over the EDA tool execution
environment (that contains the secret decryption keys). The at-
tacker is able to thoroughly analyze the EDA tool software by
performing static and dynamic software analysis. In particular,
the attacker is able to interact with the application at runtime
and can thus manipulate and extract intermediate values during
execution. Note that this setting directly corresponds to the
white-box attacker model outlined in Section II-D.
Attacker Goal. The attacker’s objective is to break the
conﬁdentiality and integrity of the protected IP to uncover
and/or manipulate the plaintext IP. More precisely, the attacker
aims to recover the decrypted session key provided within the
EDA tool rights block of the digital envelope as speciﬁed by
IEEE 1735 (see Section II-B). Extracting the hard-coded RSA
private key from the EDA tool fulﬁlls this goal as it allows
for decryption of the session key.
Attacker Skill Set To contextualize the attack time per
case study denoted in Table I, we brieﬂy summarize our
skill set. The reverse engineers conducting our case studies
4
1659
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOSTON UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on October 01,2025 at 19:25:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

are a Master’s degree student with eight years of experience
in the ﬁeld of binary analysis and a PhD student working
in the area hardware security for ﬁve years. The attacks on
the RSA white-box decryption algorithms were conducted in
collaboration with a cryptography expert with 25 years of
experience in cryptanalysis.
B. Principle Security Considerations
In light of an ongoing revision of the standard [37], we detail
ﬂaws in the protocol that break the alleged conﬁdentiality
and integrity of the protected IP. Despite not giving explicit
strong security guarantees, the standard is trusted throughout
the industry:
“There are speciﬁc IEEE standards for evaluation
and comprehension. The effort for cracking this
encryption is so high that it is difﬁcult even for large
ﬁrms.” [26, pp. 139-140]
Untrusted Execution Environment. Since EDA tools com-
monly run on the workstation(s) of IP users, IEEE 1735 oper-
ates within a notoriously untrusted execution environment, i.e.,
an adversary has full control over the execution of said EDA
tools, see Section III-A. In this hostile setting, the standard
attempts to provide conﬁdentiality and (in parts) integrity of
the protected IP by employing both public-key and symmetric
cryptography. However, even in the presence of impeccable
protection measures and analogously to DRM use cases, the
plaintext IP will reside in memory during tool execution and
thus can be recovered by an adversary. To counter this threat,
the standard encourages tool vendors to legally prevent reverse
engineering of the design tools altogether:
“Between tool vendors and their users [...], an
agreement for use of the tool should forbid tamper-
ing and reverse engineering without being granted
explicit permission.” [31, p. 11]
However, in reality, an attacker who is willing to commit IP
theft or insert malicious circuitry into a protected IP is unlikely
to be stopped by a legal agreement as both attacks are already
illegal on their own.
Hard-Coded Keys. To our surprise, IEEE 1735 recom-
mends the same RSA private key to be used across all
instances of an EDA tool. The standard furthermore proposes
to hard-code these keys into the design software itself:
“One key should be used by a single product or a set
of closely related products from one company that
shares a common code base.” [31, p. 25]
“It may harden such secrets directly into its software
or use an external persistent storage scheme.” [31,
p. 20]
As becomes evident by our case studies in Sections IV to IX,
not a single vendor resorts to an “external storage scheme”
(e.g., dongles) as it is regarded to be impractical and not
scaleable for most use cases. An adversary who is able to
recover a private key, e.g., by means of reverse engineering,
can subsequently decrypt and manipulate each and every
1
2
3
4
RAM
hard
drive
standard toolflow
white-box attacks
IP decryption at runtime
IP decryption by attacker
Fig. 3. High-level overview of the standard EDA tool ﬂow for IP decryption
as well as code-lifting and key-extraction attacks targeting a white-box
implementation.
protected IP. Hence, this single point of failure constitutes
a valuable target for attackers.
Lack of Guidance. Although the threat of key extraction
is addressed within IEEE 1735, the standard omits a clear
discussion on the importance of private key protection and
regards the disclosure of IP as an implementation issue:
“If a disclosure happens because a tool is hacked
during execution by an untrusted IP user, using
any combination of binary tampering and debugging
techniques, that is an implementation issue. Each
tool vendor needs to decide what, if any, anti-
debug, anti-tamper, and anti-key-discovery technolo-
gies they will use here.” [31, p. 11]
The standard mentions that it would be in the tool vendor’s
best business interest to invest in protecting its private keys,
however, no guidance on a secure implementation of the
key storage scheme is provided. Moreover there is a limited
incentive to invest into proper software protections for the
private keys as only few tool vendors sell and license their
own IP. Just as in a DRM setting, the security of the entire
scheme is founded upon the protection of the private keys,
hence the failure to address these threats appropriately has
devastating consequences in practice.
C. White-Box Implementations
White-box cryptography (see Section II-D), despite not
being mentioned in the standard, appears to be a natural ﬁt
for the key management scheme introduced by IEEE 1735
due to its DRM-like nature. Hence, some vendors use white-
box implementations to protect their private keys. Note that we
adopt the framing of the discovered algorithms as white-box
cryptography from the vendors to then evaluate their imple-
mentations within the white-box model in Sections VII, VIII
and IX. Thereby, we reveal that these commercial white-box
solutions do not fulﬁll the notion of white-box cryptography
and fail to uphold its basic security requirements, i.e., security
against key extraction and security against code-lifting.
White-Box Attack Strategies. Figure 3 gives a high-level
overview of the standard tool ﬂow for IP decryption and our
5
1660
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOSTON UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on October 01,2025 at 19:25:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

overall attack strategy. By default, the EDA tool loads the
protected IP into program memory ahead of decryption. It
proceeds to decrypt the symmetric session key using the RSA
private key speciﬁed within the IP’s digital envelope. The
session key is then used for the decryption of the protected IP
data. After decryption, the plaintext IP resides within program
memory awaiting operations such as synthesis or simulation.
Our attack strategy evolves around the two central security
properties of white-box cryptography, i.e., security against
code-lifting and security against key extraction. For every case
study involving a white-box,
1 we analyze the decryption
process using static and dynamic software reverse-engineering
techniques to locate the cryptographic subroutines. Having
identiﬁed the white-box RSA decryption algorithm,
2 we
proceed to lift it from the main application by replicating
it in a high-level language. This replica can be seen as a
decryption oracle, as it carries the private key embedded
within its implementation. Given the replicated white-box, we
generate an abstract, formalized description of the white-box
algorithm. Based upon this description,
3 we develop key-
extraction attacks to recover the hidden private key. From
this point on, by keeping a record of either the replicated
white-box algorithm or the recovered secret key,
4 we can
decrypt the symmetric session key and consequently uncover
the plaintext of any arbitrary IP protected by IEEE 1735
and destined for use within the respective tool. Both attack
strategies combined break the two crucial security properties
of white-box cryptography.
IV. CASE STUDY: INTEL QUARTUS PRIME
Since the acquisition of Altera, Intel has grown to be the
second largest vendor of FPGAs in the market. Intel Quartus
Prime is their main EDA tool for FPGA design. Our analysis
deals with Intel Quartus Prime in version 21.1 for Windows. At
ﬁrst, we identify Dynamic Link Libraries (DLLs) of interest by
searching for the documented [34] RSA key name in program
memory at runtime. Thereby, we uncover two potential target
DLLs, one of which only provides IEEE 1735 encryption
capabilities and contains public keys of other vendors. The
other DLL is (at least partially) equipped with symbols that,
f.i., provide human-readable names to the library functions
and thereby support the reverse engineering process. In order
to identify cryptographic subroutines, we automatically scan
for unique strings such as key_keyname using a static
analysis tool. According to IEEE 1735, key_keyname pre-
cedes the actual key identiﬁer within the digital envelope. By
analyzing the string references, we uncover a function called
assemble_key, which prepares the RSA private key for
decryption. Note that the private key is solely protected by
XORing of two hard-coded byte-arrays. Hence, revealing the
RSA private key is straight-forward.
V. CASE STUDY: CADENCE XCELIUM
Cadence Design Systems develops EDA tools for ASIC de-
sign that see widespread use throughout the industry. Cadence
Xcelium is a veriﬁcation tool based on logic simulation, which
provides encryption and decryption capabilities in compliance
with IEEE 1735. In this case study, we analyze Xcelium 21.0
on CentOS. By going through user documentation [13], we
identify two target keys, one of which is an insecure (and by
now deprecated) 512-bit RSA key that has been in active use
until approximately 2015. Due to the availability of symbols
and the absence of code obfuscation, automated scanning of
the executable for the documented RSA key names reveals the
target function. When this function is invoked, one of two other
functions is called depending on the selected secret key. These
functions both return a static memory address pointing to the
private key stored in plaintext. Hence, reverse engineering and
recovering the RSA private key is straightforward.
VI. CASE STUDY: LATTICE RADIANT
Lattice Semiconductor is one of the four major FPGA
vendors. They provide Lattice Radiant to develop hardware
designs for their FPGAs. By investigating Lattice’s implemen-
tation of IEEE 1735 within Lattice Radiant 2.2.1 for Windows,
we identify the target library by again automatically searching
for the documented key name [38]. Thereby, we discover a
function that loads a secret key which is identiﬁed by name.
In order to extract the RSA private key from the decryption
context, we follow the references to callers of that function.
We subsequently identify another function that takes as input a
key name, the encrypted data, and an empty buffer apparently
reserved for the decrypted data. The discovered decryption
function then calls the RSA decrypt function provided by
OpenSSL. Next, we inject custom code triggering the decryp-
tion on the targeted private key and subsequently extract the
RSA private key from the OpenSSL decryption at runtime.
VII. CASE STUDY: MICROSEMI LIBERO SOC
Microsemi is one of the four major FPGA companies and
provides solutions for aerospace, defense, communications,
and industrial markets. In this case study, we focus on Libero
SoC v2021.1 for Windows, their current FPGA design tool.
A. Reverse Engineering
Similar to the ﬁrst three case studies, automatic scanning for
the RSA key name [42] reveals a valid 2048-bit RSA private
key in program memory. However, since we do not have access
to an encrypted IP or the corresponding RSA public key, we
could not verify its correctness on our own. After consultation
with Microsemi, this key turned out to be a decoy.
We proceed by dynamically analyzing the executable. To
this end, we trigger the RSA decryption routine and observe
its operation at runtime by executing Microsemi Libero SoC
and importing a speciﬁcally crafted IP. We observe that Libero
SoC ﬁrst feeds the encrypted soft IP into a synthesizer which
in turn yields a synthesized and re-encrypted IP at netlist-level.
Next, we turn our attention to the subprocess calls taking place
on this re-encrypted netlist, as this is the ﬁrst time Libero
SoC itself interacts with the encrypted ﬁles via a dedicated
executable. We observe that this executable is dynamically
6
1661
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOSTON UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on October 01,2025 at 19:25:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

linked against a DLL equipped with code obfuscation which
hints at its valuable content.
We again detect instances of the RSA key name within this
library, but since static analysis appears to be cumbersome
due to obfuscation, we opt for a dynamic approach instead.
However, the binary is equipped with debugger detection
mechanisms and terminates standard execution when attaching
a debugger. We defeat (almost) all anti-debugging measures
protecting the DLL using ScyllaHide [14]. Moreover, we
discover the use of integrity checks throughout the library, pre-
venting us from inserting software breakpoints, but evade this
protection by the use of hardware breakpoints. We discover
the ciphertext, i.e., the RSA-encrypted session key, in memory
as it is passed as an input to a function that is called in close
proximity to the discovered RSA key name. Hence, we place a
(hardware-based) memory access breakpoint on the ciphertext,
which holds execution upon the ﬁrst access to the monitored
memory address. In our case, the breakpoint is triggered at
the entry point to the cryptographic computations. Thereby,
we skip the obfuscated parts of the binary and reveal the
(unobfuscated) functions that are responsible for decryption
of the session key.
B. Private Key Recovery
The RSA decryption is implemented using Montgomery
modular multiplications [46], as revealed by static analysis
of the unobfuscated cryptographic functions. Note that this
technique is typically used to speed up subsequent multipli-
cations as required for the modular exponentiation of RSA.
By identifying the forward and backward transformations
into and from Montgomery domain, we discover the main
RSA decryption routine between these two function calls.
We observe that the control ﬂow of the decryption differs
between executions, utilizing multiple distinct exponentiation
algorithms. By tracing through a single decryption and dump-
ing inputs and outputs for each exponentiation, we reconstruct
an entire decryption run. Our investigation shows an extended
version dℓof Microsemi’s 7680-bit RSA private key d to be
split into four hard-coded shares, i.e., two 7680-bit numbers
d1, d2 and the two 32-bit values d3, d4. Further analysis reveals
that dℓis computed as
dℓ= d1 · d2 + d3 · 232 + d4 = d + k · Φ(N), k ∈N.
Note that Microsemi refers to this implementation as a white-
box, hence we have indicated this within Table I using braces.
For recovery of the original 7680-bit private RSA key
d = dℓmod Φ(N), we factor N = pq to compute Φ(N) =
(p −1)(q −1). To this end, we leverage the well-known
factorization approach outlined in Section II-C, which also
works for dℓ.
VIII. CASE STUDY: SIEMENS MODELSIM
Ever since incorporating Mentor Graphics in 2016, Mod-
elSim is Siemens’ tool for Register Transfer Level (RTL) as
well as netlist-level simulation and comes with support for
IEEE 1735 [50]. Siemens ModelSim is commonly bundled
with other EDA tools and IP encrypted for these tools often
includes an additional tool block for ModelSim, see Section
II-B. Hence, extracting the private RSA keys from Siemens
ModelSim impacts multiple vendors at once.
A. Reverse Engineering
We target ModelSim Pro version 2020.4 for Windows. In
order to trigger and inspect the decryption at runtime, we
load a protected IP into the EDA tool similar to previous
case studies. As we could not identify cryptographic functions
within the main ModelSim executable using static analysis, we
attach a debugger and track all sub-process calls. Thereby, we
identify a sub-process that handles decryption of the protected
IP, as indicated by its console output. Using static analysis, we
verify the use of a well-known cryptographic library within
this sub-process, but are unable to identify all cryptographic
functions right away. However, the binary is still equipped
with assert statements, which include the ﬁle path and line
number of the original asserts within the source code. Thus,
these asserts help us to identify the missing functions by
matching ﬁle names and line numbers with the open-source
cryptographic library implementation.
B. Code-Lifting Attack
Through dynamic analysis, we discover that the standard
RSA decryption is not called during execution. Instead, a cus-
tom decryption routine is implemented using the Application
Programming Interface (API) provided by the cryptographic
library. Another assert statement discovered within the binary
hints at an RSA white-box implementation using the Chinese
Remainder Theorem (CRT).
In order to recover the session key, we ﬁrst opt for a
code-lifting attack that reconstructs the white-box decryption
to be used as an oracle, see Section II-D. To this end, we
reconstruct the white-box algorithm in a high-level language.
We verify correct functionality by decrypting an arbitrary
encrypted IP using our implementation. During analysis we
discover support for three distinct RSA key pairs, two 1024-
bit and one 2048-bit pair. The same decryption routine is
called for all three private RSA keys. Given the white-box
data associated with each key, we can then decrypt protected
IP even without knowledge of the keys.
This reconstruction does not only break the essential white-
box security notion of security against code-lifting attacks, but
also serves as the basis for the understanding of the underlying
white-box algorithm as well as the extraction of the secret keys
in the next section.
C. Private Key Extraction
CRT-RSA. Let us recall standard CRT-RSA decryption as
shown in Algorithm 1. Let dp = d mod p −1 and dq =
d mod q−1. We compute cd mod N via cd = cdp mod p and
cd = cdq mod q, and eventually combine both results using
the CRT.
7
1662
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOSTON UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on October 01,2025 at 19:25:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Algorithm 1 CRT-EXP(c, d, dp, dq, p, q, γ, N)
1: mp = cdp mod p.
2: mq = cdq mod q.
3: m = (mp −mq)γ + mq mod N
▷apply CRT
4: return m
The CRT-parameter γ satisﬁes
γ =
(
1 mod p,
0 mod q.
(1)
Thus, in Step 3 of Algorithm 1 we compute m ∈ZN satisfying
m =
(
mp = cdp = cd mod p,
mq = cdq = cd mod q.
Computing CRT-EXP is four times faster than computing
cd mod N directly, hence it is commonly applied in prac-
tice to speed up RSA exponentiations. However, CRT-EXP
is also much harder to obfuscate, since all ﬁve parameters
dp, dq, p, q, γ directly reveal the factorization of N. This is
obvious for p, q. For dp we have cdp −c = 0 mod p for
any c, and therefore gcd(N, cdp −c) = p, analogous for dq.
And last, by Equation (1) we have gcd(N, γ −1) = p and
gcd(N, γ) = q.
Obfuscated CRT-RSA. We now outline how Siemens
obfuscates the critical values dp, dq, p, q, γ, where the ﬁrst four
are 512-bit each.
dp, dq: Additively split dp = dp,1 +dp,2 and dq = dq,1 +dq,2.
p, q: Use moduli ˜p = kp, ˜q = ℓq with 8-bit integers k
and ℓ. Notice that if we compute mp = cdp mod ˜p,
then mp also holds modulo p. Thus, the correctness
of Algorithm 1 is maintained. However, ˜p and ˜q still
reveal the factorization by computing p = gcd(˜p, N) or
q = gcd(˜q, N). Therefore, Siemens ModelSim additively
splits ˜p = p1−p2 and ˜q = q1−q2, where p2, q2 are 256-bit
numbers. Siemens ModelSim’s sophisticated obfuscation
technique OBF-MOD now performs a reduction modulo
˜p using only the split p1, p2, see Algorithm 3.
γ: The parameter is split multiplicatively and additively,
thereby yielding γ = γ1(γ2 −γ3).
Altogether, this results in the obfuscated CRT-RSA exponen-
tiation shown in Algorithm 2.
Algorithm 2 OBF-CRT-EXP(c, dp,1, dp,2, dq,1, dq,2, p1, p2,
γ1, γ2, γ3, N)
1: mp = OBF-MOD(cdp,1 · cdp,2, p1, p2)
2: mq = OBF-MOD(cdq,1 · cdq,2, q1, q2)
3: m = (mp −mq)γ1(γ2 + γ3) + mq mod N ▷apply CRT
4: return m
Let us now have a closer look at OBF-MOD in Algorithm 3
that performs the obfuscated modular reduction of some
parameter a modulo ˜p = p1 −p2 using only p1, p2.
Algorithm 3 OBF-MOD(a, p1, p2)
1: Set q = ⌊a
p1 ⌋.
2: Set r = a mod p1.
3: return q · p2 + r mod N
Notice that OBF-MOD maps a to the value
q · p2 + r = ⌊a
p1
⌋· p2 + (a mod p1)
= ⌊a
p1
⌋· p2 + a −⌊a
p1
⌋· p1
= a −⌊a
p1
⌋· (p1 −p2)
= a −⌊a
p1
⌋· ˜p.
Thus, OBF-MOD indeed reduces a by a multiple of ˜p. How-
ever, notice that OBF-MOD does not realize the standard
Euclidean reduction a −⌊a
˜p⌋· ˜p with a remainder in [0, ˜p).
Nonetheless, since p2 ≪p1 we have ˜p ≈p1, and therefore a
gets sufﬁciently reduced.
Private Key Recovery. We extract γ = γ1(γ2 + γ3) and
compute the factorization of N as gcd(γ −1, N) = p and
gcd(γ, N) = q. For veriﬁcation we check whether for ˜p =
kp = p1−p2 and ˜q = ℓq = q1−q2 it holds that gcd(N, ˜p) = p
and gcd(N, ˜q) = q. Eventually, we compute dp = dp,1 + dp,2
and dq = dq,1+dq,2 to verify that for random c ∈ZN we have
gcd(N, cdp −c) = p and gcd(N, cdq −c) = q. Recovering d
now is as simple as d = e−1 mod Φ(N).
IX. CASE STUDY: XILINX VIVADO DESIGN SUITE
Xilinx is the world’s largest manufacturer of FPGAs. Xilinx
Vivado Design Suite is their current EDA tool for FPGA
development. We target Xilinx Vivado version 2020.2 for
Windows, but have veriﬁed applicability to 2019.2 and 2020.1.
Remark. Xilinx makes use of white-box cryptography to
protect (some of) its RSA private keys. After concluding our
work on Xilinx Vivado in August 2020, we discovered another
white-box attack [55] on Google’s Widevine DRM solution
published on October 31, 2020. We veriﬁed that Widevine
used the same white-box scheme as Xilinx, hence indicating
that the white-box is supplied by a third-party vendor.
A. Reverse Engineering
As in previous case studies, we begin by exploring the
Xilinx Vivado executable using static analysis. We locate
implementations of cryptographic primitives by scanning the
program memory for cryptographic constants during decryp-
tion. Thereby, we determine that Xilinx Vivado uses a well
known cryptographic library to handle its private key. More-
over, Xilinx secures Vivado using control-ﬂow obfuscation,
debugger detection, and exception-based anti-debugging tech-
niques among others, see [15, 16, 20] for a comprehensive
overview on software protection techniques. However, the
discovered cryptographic functions do not exhibit any such
software protections.
8
1663
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOSTON UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on October 01,2025 at 19:25:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

The targeted Xilinx Vivado installation supports ﬁve differ-
ent 2048-bit RSA key pairs [58]. Our analysis subsequently
reveals one of the ﬁve RSA private keys using dynamic
analysis. We verify correctness by decryption of an openly-
available IP encrypted using the corresponding public key.
B. Code-Lifting Attack
Using dynamic analysis, we observe that the discovered
RSA decryption routine is no longer triggered for the four
other RSA private keys. In order to identify the decryption
routine used for these keys, we statically follow the call
graph of the discovered decryption, aiming to locate the
dispatcher calling the respective decryption functions for the
different keys. However, large parts of the functions within the
call-graph (excluding cryptographic primitives) are protected
by software obfuscation. By getting around these protective
measures, we reveal a reference to another presumably cryp-
tographic function. Observing the inputs and outputs of the
newly discovered function using debugging reveals that it
indeed performs an RSA decryption and is only invoked
for the remaining four RSA private keys. Due to the non-
standard RSA decryption implementation that is heavily based
on custom precomputed tables, we conclude that the function
implements an RSA white-box. By triggering the RSA decryp-
tion on different private keys, we observe that the same code
is executed for all four available white-box keys, but different
data structures are accessed depending on the selected key.
To obtain a decryption oracle that allows to recover the
RSA-encrypted session keys, we perform a code-lifting attack
by replicating the white-box RSA decryption in Python. The
replication of the white-box decryption breaks the white-box
property of security against code-lifting attacks.
C. White-Box Simpliﬁcation
In anticipation of the private key extraction attack in the
next section, we brieﬂy describe high-level implementation
concepts and our simpliﬁcations thereof. Note that manipu-
lations to the implementation of the RSA white-box are in
line with our attacker model deﬁned in Section III.
Montgomery Multiplications. First, we identify the use of
Montgomery multiplications [46] by identifying Montgomery-
speciﬁc constants such as R = 2|d| mod N for private key bit-
length |d| and modulus N within the extracted data structures.
To simplify the algorithmic description of the white-box im-
plementation, we replace all Montgomery transformations and
multiplications with isomorphic standard modular operations.
Ciphertext Dependency. The white-box algorithm utilizes
pre-computed values, some of which are selected based on
the input ciphertext. This ciphertext-dependency is introduced
by ﬁrst evaluating a hash function on the ciphertext and
then applying multiplicative masking to the ciphertext based
on the hash function output. We observe that these values
do not impact the decryption as veriﬁed by ﬁxing the hash
function output to zero and observing the output over multiple
decryption runs. Therefore, we conclude that we can safely
remove this ciphertext-dependency.
D. White-Box Description
This section gives a formal description of the white-box
RSA decryption routine we uncovered from within Xilinx
Vivado. Based upon this description, we subsequently present
two sophisticated attacks that instantly lead to a full recovery
of the protected RSA secret key in Section IX-E.
Notation. We denote vectors as bold-face, lowercase letters
such as v and matrices as bold-face, uppercase letters like A.
We address vector and matrix entries as v[i] and A[i][j]
respectively.
Ordinary RSA Decryption. Let us ﬁrst consider an ordi-
nary RSA decryption. Our goal is to recover the plaintext m by
computing the exponentiation cd = m mod N. We introduce
a window technique whose usual purpose is to provide a
time-memory trade-off for fast exponentiation, but in our case
additionally lies at the heart of Xilinx Vivado’s white-box
implementation. Consider a secret decryption key d of length
n that is split into k = ⌈n
5 ⌉chunks of ﬁve bits each, i.e.,
d = d0 + d1 · 25 + d2 · 210 + . . . + dk · 25k with di ∈Z32.
We thus write d = (d0, d1, . . . , dk) ∈Zk+1
32
for the vector
containing these secret key chunks. Then it follows that
m = cd = cd0+d1·32+d2·322+...+dk·32k =
k
Y
i=0
 cdi32i
=
 (cdk)32 · cdk−132 · . . . · cd132
· cd0 mod N.
(2)
Note that we can precompute the ciphertext-dependent vector
c = (c0, c1, . . . , c31) ∈Z32
N once at the beginning and use it
as a lookup table throughout the decryption process. Thus,
the computation of Equation (2) is realized by procedure
EXP(c, d) in Algorithm 4 comprising only k multiplications
and exponentiations in ZN.
Algorithm 4 EXP(c, d)
1: m = c[d[k]] = cdk
2: for i = k −1 downto 0 do
3:
m = m32 · c[d[i]] = m32 · cdi mod N
4: end for
5: return m
Hiding d. Notice that in its current form, Algorithm 4
directly operates on (and thereby reveals) d = (d0, . . . , dk) ∈
Zk+1
32
as input. Hence, an attacker could straightforward re-
cover the secret key d = Pk
i=0 di · 32i from memory.
The core idea behind the discovered white-box approach is
to hide all original 5-bit values di ∈Z32 of d via some secret
permutation π : Z32 →Z32. The bijection π is hard-coded
within the implementation in an obfuscated manner. Each of
the four available secret keys using the white-box utilizes a
different π.
Notice that π as well as the inverse permutation π−1 can
efﬁciently be represented by providing a lookup table with
values π(0), . . . , π(31) requiring only 32 · 5 = 160 bits.
9
1664
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOSTON UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on October 01,2025 at 19:25:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

As a result, instead of d itself, only the obfuscated key vec-
tor ˆd = (π−1(d0), . . . , π−1(dk)) is revealed during execution
of the white-box algorithm. Since the computation π(ˆd) = d
immediately yields the original secret key, an attacker may ﬁnd
considerable value in trying to recover the secret permutation
π. However, the number of permutations on Z32 is given as
32! > 2117. Therefore, trying to guess π using a brute-force
approach is infeasible. This also provides reasoning for the
choice of a chunk size of k = 5 bits, since it is the smallest
k that provides sufﬁcient security against brute-force attacks.
Now, let us precompute the vector ¯c = (cπ(0), . . . , cπ(31)).
When subsequently executing EXP(¯c, ˆd) on the permuted
inputs (¯c, ˆd) instead of (c, d), the intermediate values
¯c[ˆd[i]] = ¯c[π−1(di)] = cπ(π−1(di)) = cdi.
are computed. Thus, EXP(¯c, ˆd) outputs the same plaintext m =
cd as EXP(c, d) does on the original inputs.
Randomization of ¯c. Notice that an attacker knows the
ciphertext c and thus can compute c0, . . . , c31 himself. As a
result, ¯c = (cπ(0), . . . , cπ(31)) would immediately reveal the
secret permutation π. In order to prevent this disclosure of π,
a randomized and obfuscated precomputation vector ˆc has to
be deﬁned. To this end set
r = (r0, . . . , r31) for some ri ∈R Z∗
N and
ˆc = r · ¯c = (rπ(0) · cπ(0), . . . , rπ(31) · cπ(31)).
(3)
Since the ri are chosen uniformly at random, ˆc does not reveal
any information about π. Looking at the output of an execution
of EXP(ˆc, ˆd), we notice that the intermediate values are now
of the form
ˆc[ˆd[i]] = ˆc[π−1(di)] = rπ(π−1(di)) · cπ(π−1(di)) = rdi · cdi.
Given Equation (2), it is not hard to see that EXP(ˆc, ˆd)
therefore produces the output
 (rdk · cdk)32 · rdk−1cdk−132 · . . . · rd1cd132
· rd0cd0
= cd ·
k
Y
i=0
r32i
di = m ·
k
Y
i=0
r32i
di mod N.
Now deﬁne the constant term r = Qk
i=0 r−32i
di
mod N. In
order to reconstruct the desired RSA plaintext m one has to
multiply the output of EXP(ˆc, ˆd) by r. Subsequently we obtain
cd = EXP(c, d) = r · EXP(ˆc, ˆd).
(4)
During the precomputation step an attacker can not directly
compute ˆc = (rπ(0)·cπ(0), . . . , rπ(31)·cπ(31)), since the imple-
mentation hides the values of ri and π(i) for i ∈{0, . . . , 31}
from the attacker. To this end, the discovered cryptographic
algorithm presents a clever approach towards realizing a white-
box RSA decryption.
Realization of r and π. As revealed by the reverse engineer-
ing efforts described in Section IX-B, Xilinx Vivado executes
the white-box RSA precomputation shown in Algorithm 5
on any given ciphertext c ∈ZN. Algorithm 5 computes a
vector s ∈Z33
N comprising powers si = (αc + β)i of the
linearly transformed ciphertext c for all 0 ≤i ≤32 using
some hard-coded constants α, β ∈ZN. As we will show
in the following, the ﬁxed matrix A ∈Z32×33
N
utilized in
Algorithm 5 realizes (and hides) the secret permutation π
on Z32 and the randomization vector r = (r0, . . . , r31) from
Equation (3).
Algorithm 5 OBFUSC-PRECOMP(c)
1: Use hard-coded A
∈
Z32×33
N
, t’
=
(t0, . . . , t31)
∈
Z32
N , α, β ∈ZN.
2: s = (s0, . . . , s32) with si = (αc + β)i mod N
3: t = −c32 · t′
4: return As + t = ˆc = (rπ(0) · cπ(0), . . . , rπ(31) · cπ(31))
Given just the description of Algorithm 5, it remains unclear
how the output As + t realizes an obfuscated vector ˆc. Using
the binomial theorem, we can write si as
si = (αc + β)i =
i
X
j=0
i
j

(αc)j βi−j
∀i : 0 ≤i ≤32.
Thus, within the sum making up si the coefﬁcient of cj with
j ≤i is given as
 i
j

αjβi−j. Let us subsequently deﬁne the
following lower-triangular matrix M ∈Z33×33
N
with entries
M[i][j] =
i
j

αjβi−j
∀i, j : 0 ≤j ≤i ≤32,
and M[i][j] = 0 otherwise:
M =







1
β
α
β2
2αβ
α2
β3
3αβ2
3α2β
α3
...
...
...
...
...
β32
32αβ31
 32
2

α2β30
 32
3

α3β29
. . .
α32







.
Note that we omit the zeros from the depiction of M for ease
of presentation.
Let us deﬁne the vector c = (1, c, c2, . . . , c32) made up of
powers of the ciphertext c. Then by deﬁnition it follows that
M · c = s.
The following theorem shows that Algorithm 5 indeed
computes the obfuscated vector ˆc if and only if AM directly
reveals the secret permutation π as well as the randomization
vector r.
Theorem 1. Let ei ∈{0, 1}32 be the ith unit vector. We have
As + t = ˆc = (rπ(0) · cπ(0), . . . , rπ(31) · cπ(31)) if and only if
AM =





rπ(0)eπ(0)
t0
rπ(1)eπ(1)
t1
...
...
rπ(31)eπ(31)
t31




.
In other words, for 0 ≤i < 32 the ith row vector of AM
is entirely made up of 0’s, except for the last and the π(i)th
position, at which we get entries ti and rπ(i) respectively.
10
1665
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOSTON UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on October 01,2025 at 19:25:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Proof. Let ai be the ith row of A. We then have to show that
if for all 0 ≤i ≤33 we have ai·s+t[i] = rπ(i)cπ(i) it follows
that
ai · M = (rπ(i)eπ(i), ti),
(5)
and vice versa. Hence, assume that ai · s + t[i] = rπ(i)cπ(i).
Since we have s = M · c and t[i] = −tic32, we obtain
ai · M · c = rπ(i)cπ(i) + tic32 = (rπ(i)eπ(i), ti) · c.
(6)
As the identity from Equation (6) has to hold independent of
the ciphertext c and thus for all c, this already implies the
desired identity from Equation (5).
For the opposite direction, assume that Equation (5) holds.
This immediately implies Equation (6), from which we con-
clude that ai · s + t[i] = rπ(i)cπ(i).
E. Private Key Extraction
In the following, we propose two attack strategies to recover
the secret permutation π from the white-box cryptographic
algorithm. Hence, we show that the recovered white-box
algorithm does not hold up to the notion of security against
key extraction as outlined in Section II-D.
Chosen Ciphertext Attack. Extracting the key via a cho-
sen ciphertext attack is straightforward once the ciphertext-
dependency has been removed as outlined towards the end
of Section IX-B. Given the modiﬁed white-box algorithm,
we ﬁrst run OBFUSC-PRECOMP(1) from Algorithm 5 using
ciphertext c = 1 as input. By the correctness property of
Algorithm 5, we obtain the output
π(r) = (rπ(0), . . . , rπ(31)).
Next, we run OBFUSC-PRECOMP(2), resulting in output
(rπ(0)2π(0), . . . , rπ(31)2π(31)).
After dividing each element of the second output by the
respective ri, we receive vector v = (2π(0), . . . , 2π(31)) ∈Z32
N
comprising powers of 2. Since π(i) ≤31 and 231 < N, no
entry is reduced modulo N such that v ∈Z32. Therefore,
computing the log2 of v element-wise yields the values of
π(0), . . . , π(31) and thus discloses the secret permutation π.
Using Matrix A. We now present a second attack that only
requires access to the hard-coded values A, α, β deﬁning
the two matrices A and M. We can directly read off A from
Algorithm 5. Using Theorem 1, we can subsequently compute
AM =



rπ(0)eπ(0)
t0
...
...
rπ(31)eπ(31)
t31


,
which
reveals
the
permuted
randomization
π(r)
=
(rπ(0), . . . , rπ(31)) and the secret permutation π.
Private Key Recovery. OBFUSC-PRECOMP(c) computes ˆc
on ciphertext c as input. Recall from Equation (4) that the
RSA decryption can be computed on obfuscated vector ˆc as
m = cd = EXP(ˆc, ˆd) ·
k
Y
i=0
r−32i
di
,
using the obfuscated secret key ˆd = (π−1(d0), . . . , π−1(dk)).
Consequently, we can extract ˆd from EXP(ˆc, ˆd) and recover
the original RSA secret key by computing
π(ˆd) = d = (d0, . . . , dk) and d =
k
X
i=0
di · 32i.
Given public key e and private key d, we retrieve the factor-
ization N = pq using the approach described in Section II-C.
X. DISCUSSION
In the following, we discuss implications of our industry-
wide security analysis, reﬂect on potential defenses, elaborate
on existing literature, and ﬁnally outline future research direc-
tions.
A. Implications
We now discuss implications of our attacks from different
perspectives.
EDA Tools. Although with varying complexity, each case
study results in a full break of the conﬁdentiality and integrity
of the respective IEEE 1735 implementation. In particular,
we extract all RSA private keys used within the analyzed
EDA tools for the decryption of protected IP. As explicitly
permitted by IEEE 1735, three out of the six analyzed vendors
exhibit no (noteworthy) private key protections at all. Reverse
engineering of these unprotected tools is sometimes even less
time-consuming than their installation process. Since most IP
is protected using at least one of the targeted vendors’ RSA
public keys, we can decrypt almost all protected IPs used
throughout the industry. Consequently, the affected IP does
not only present a target for IP theft, but is also susceptible
to malicious manipulations such as hardware Trojans [5, 60].
IEEE Standard 1735-2014. Since the execution environ-
ment of EDA tools is typically untrusted, they are naturally
susceptible to software reverse-engineering and manipulation.
In this context, the recommendation of hard-coded vendor
keys within IEEE 1735 is inherently insecure. Countering this
critical threat by declaring it “out-of-scope” [31, p. 11] within
IEEE 1735 and encouraging the prohibition of reverse engi-
neering by adoption of end-user license agreements [31, p. 11],
rather than providing guidance for a secured implementation,
demonstrates a lack of a realistic risk assessment. Moreover,
even if the IP decryption could be performed securely, the
decrypted IP core would still be stored in Random-Access
Memory (RAM) at runtime and could thus be extracted. In
this regard, the standard mentions that “Each tool vendor
needs to decide what, if any, anti-debug, anti-tamper, and anti-
key-discovery technologies they will use here.” [31, p. 11].
However, the standard provides a false sense of security
since in practice its soundness is entirely founded on the
protection of the private keys and the plaintext IP. As in
other DRM applications, security-by-obscurity constitutes the
only available protection layer in this case. Additionally, an
IP may contain session keys encrypted for multiple different
11
1666
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOSTON UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on October 01,2025 at 19:25:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

tool vendors, therefore a single unprotected private key within
one EDA tool can compromise the entire scheme. Hence,
the central security assumptions of IEEE 1735 are invalid
in practice. Future iterations of IEEE 1735 should at least
explicitly emphasize the importance of software protection,
outline limitations of cryptography in a real-world setting, and
clearly communicate the threats arising thereof.
Public-Key White-Box Cryptography. While symmetric
white-box cryptography has received signiﬁcant attention in
recent years [7, 9, 11, 18, 36], public-key white-box schemes
have been analyzed scarcely in the open literature so far.
However, (presumably insecure) proprietary public-key white-
box schemes are already deployed in practice to protect high-
value IP. In its current state and due to limited public scrutiny,
we claim that public-key white-box cryptography lacks the
security assurances required to be deployed on its own, i.e.,
without any additional software protections. Our case studies
demonstrate proprietary cryptography to (again) be ineffective
in practice. On the basis of our recovery of two commercial
public-key white-box decryption schemes, we demonstrated
its weaknesses in regard to both central security notions of
white-box cryptography.
B. Thoughts on IP Protection in Practice
We now reﬂect on general implications and the potential
mitigation of threats arising from untrusted execution envi-
ronments used for IP protection schemes.
Integrity and Authentication. Some use-cases demand
integrity and authentication of the IP rather than conﬁden-
tiality, as most protected IP implement well-known interfaces
or algorithms that typically do not provide a signiﬁcant edge
over competitor product portfolios. This is especially true
for security-sensitive and safety-critical applications, f.i., in
military or critical infrastructure systems. In these use-cases,
the ability to inspect third-party IP before integration may
even be required. Such applications primarily beneﬁt from
tamper-resistance (e.g., enforced by integrity protections) and
authenticity of the IP vendor to prevent supply chain attacks.
Integrity and authentication of an IP can be achieved using
digital signatures in combination with a Public Key Infrastruc-
ture (PKI) or (in ofﬂine-settings) by manual comparison of
hash-values computed over the encrypted IP. Since integrity
and authenticity are primarily in the interest of the IP user,
there is typically no incentive for them to bypass these pro-
tections on their machines. Nonetheless, we want to emphasize
that this cannot defend against software manipulations of the
EDA tool that would enable an attacker to interfere with
the IP after integrity checks have been performed. As a
result, cryptographic integrity protections can defend against
Man-in-the-Middle (MITM) attackers trying to intercept and
manipulate the IP during shipment, but still fail to prevent
attacks within the MATE attacker model.
Conﬁdentiality. Introducing a PKI for the management and
distribution of individual session keys at ﬁrst seems to be an
obvious choice. However, the private keys will still end up in
the EDA tool’s program memory and are therefore vulnerable
to extraction. Hence, for the sake of our argument, let us
assume that a perfectly secure key storage solution exists and
all cryptographic operations can be performed in a trusted
execution environment (e.g., Intel SGX or ARM TrustZone).
Following our attacker model, a reverse engineer would still
be able to tamper with the design software itself and read out
its memory at runtime. As soon as the EDA tool performs
any kind of operation on the protected IP core (e.g., run a
synthesis or implementation step), it must decrypt the IP and
keep its plaintext representation in memory during the entire
operation. At this point, an attacker can recover the decrypted
IP by dumping and inspecting the memory during operation.
To counter this threat, the entire EDA tool would have to run
in a trusted execution environment, which is not desirable for
performance reasons.
Even if all EDA tool computations were to be performed in
such a trusted environment, the result of the hardware design
ﬂow is either a bitstream ﬁle that conﬁgures an FPGA or a
layout description for an ASIC. Crucially, both a bitstream [53,
56, 59] and a layout [47] contain all information about an IP
core as they are simply a different gate-level netlist repre-
sentation. A determined adversary can extract the high-level
functionality of an IP core through netlist analysis [2, 39, 40,
52]. We note that even though this approach arguably requires
considerable efforts and specialized knowledge on hardware
reverse engineering, it always succeeds given a motivated
adversary. Note that this is similar to other DRM settings,
as the protected data must be handed to the user eventually.
In summary, perfect conﬁdentiality of protected IP cannot
be achieved, even when using strong cryptographic solutions
and tools that are running in a trusted execution environment.
Thus so far, the only viable defenses are raise-the-bar coun-
termeasures based on strong software defense mechanisms.
Raise-the-Bar Countermeasures. Similar to DRM use-
cases, cryptography alone cannot resolve the aforementioned
issues to achieve conﬁdentiality, hence the goal must be
to increase the economic effort such that the costs of an
infringement outweigh any potential proﬁt. In our case studies,
potent software obfuscation proves to be the one countermea-
sure that signiﬁcantly increases attack time, while most anti-
debugging measures were defeated using publicly available
tooling. Cryptography and even white-box implementations
may play a vital part, but, in their current state must always
be combined with strong software obfuscation techniques to
suppress any attempt on static or dynamic analysis.
Another approach to accomplish conﬁdentiality in such
untrusted execution environments may be to outsource all
computations that require access to a decrypted IP core to a
trusted (cloud-)server and employ a thin-client solution. This
mitigates the threat of IP disclosure and manipulation to some
extend as the protected IP itself is never decrypted on the IP
user workstation. While thin-client solutions may be a viable
for some use-cases, others such as the hardware development
for military or critical infrastructure applications require the
12
1667
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOSTON UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on October 01,2025 at 19:25:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

entire design process to be performed on air-gapped machines
located on manufacturer premises. Despite all efforts, the IP
user (and potential attacker) still receives a bitstream or layout
in the end, which may then be targeted by netlist reverse-
engineering to defeat conﬁdentiality and integrity.
C. Related Work
Our work relates to aspects of both hardware IP protection
and white-box cryptography.
IP Protection. The threat of hardware IP infringement
and the development of techniques to achieve IP protection
is widely covered in the literature [12, 45]. While works
commonly focus on hardware obfuscation, IEEE 1735 [31]
presents the ﬁrst approach to an industry-wide solution based
on well-known cryptographic algorithms. In 2017, Chhotaray
et al. [17] identify ﬂaws in the choice of cryptographic
primitives of IEEE 1735. They mount both a padding-oracle
and a syntax-oracle attack on an EDA tool for FPGAs. Subse-
quently, they recover the plaintext IP and apply meaningful
manipulations to insert a hardware Trojan. However, their
attacks did not question the fundamental security assumptions
of IEEE 1735. In response to ﬁndings of Chhotaray et al., the
IEEE issued a statement asking IP owners and users to secure
their supply chain and implement end-user agreements [32].
The standard itself remains unchanged to this day. Mirian
et al. [44] discuss ﬂaws within the implementation of Xilinx
ISE, which was discontinued in 2012. They extract the gate-
level netlist of an IP protected by IEEE 1735 by exploiting
the insecure design ﬂow of Xilinx ISE, but do not recover a
high-level description.
White-Box Cryptography. White-box cryptography was
ﬁrst introduced by Chow et al. [18, 19] in 2002. In the last
decades numerous efforts to formalize symmetric white-box
security properties have been published [9, 24, 49]. For now,
white-box cryptography resembles an arms race with many
such propositions [18, 19, 36] being broken shortly after
publication [7, 8, 11]. In 2017, 2019, and 2021, white-box
competitions were held at CHES [21, 22, 23] to stimulate
research of white-box implementations and their security.
The ﬁrst competition was subsequently evaluated by Bock
et al. [10]. Apart from classical attacks, gray-box approaches
that use side-channel information to extract information from
the white-box present another critical threat [11, 27, 48]. In
academia, white-box research is typically focused on symmet-
ric encryption schemes. To the best of our knowledge, the work
of Barthelemy [4] is the only (academic) publication on public-
key white-box cryptography based on a novel lattice-based
approach. The latest white-box competition at CHES [23] set
out the target to develop a secure ECDSA white-box imple-
mentation. At the time of writing, each and every contestant
has been broken within two days of publication.
D. Future Work
In light of our discussion in Section X-B, we argue that
an all-encompassing solution for IP protection is out of reach
given the contemporary hardware design process. Nonetheless,
IEEE standard 1735-2014 is in dire need for a timely revision
that not only takes its choice of cryptographic primitives
into account, but pays respect to its foundational security
assumptions in untrusted execution environments as well.
Furthermore, additional precautions for integrity assurance of
the entire IP are essential to restore trust in a future iteration of
IEEE 1735. Hence, we provide an incentive for standardization
bodies and researchers alike to develop sound solutions for the
protection of hardware IP.
Our work practically demonstrates the discrepancy between
commercially-available public-key white-box solutions and
the limited understanding of public-key white-box security
in academia. Hence, both academia and industry can build
upon our work to take the presented cryptanalytic attacks into
consideration and build the foundations for a secure usage of
public-key white-box cryptography in the future. Moreover,
we hope that our work sparks interest in developing (and
analyzing) public-key white-box algorithms to improve the
understanding of such schemes.
XI. CONCLUSION
IEEE standard 1735-2014 aims to provide recommended
practices for the secure management of electronic de-
sign IP [31]. Our work presented structural weaknesses of
IEEE 1735 that allow for extraction of the EDA tool vendors’
private keys. Consequently, our attacks enable to decrypt,
maliciously modify, and re-encrypt all allegedly protected IP.
In particular, our case studies uncovered that three vendors
use no software protection to safeguard their hard-coded
private keys, two vendors employ code obfuscation and anti-
debugging, and three vendors utilize a public-key white-box
cryptographic approach. We analyzed the white-box schemes
and presented cryptanalytical attacks on all three schemes to
effectively extract their hidden keys within seconds.
Our insights on realistic software analysis capabilities in
untrusted execution environments demand a rethinking of the
use of third-party IP cores in its current form as both IP authors
and IP users are at risk with limited prospect of improvement.
REFERENCES
[1]
Adnan Akhunzada, Mehdi Sookhak, Nor Badrul An-
uar, Abdullah Gani, Ejaz Ahmed, Muhammad Shiraz,
Steven Furnell, Amir Hayat, and Muhammad Khurram
Khan. “Man-At-The-End attacks: Analysis, taxonomy,
human aspects, motivation and future directions”. In:
Journal of Network and Computer Applications 48
(2015), pp. 44–57.
[2]
Nils Albartus, Max Hoffmann, Sebastian Temme,
Leonid Azriel, and Christof Paar. “DANA Universal
Dataﬂow Analysis for Gate-Level Netlist Reverse En-
gineering”. In: IACR Transactions on Cryptographic
Hardware and Embedded Systems (TCHES) 4 (2020),
pp. 309–336. URL: https://tches.iacr.org/index.php/
TCHES/article/view/8685/8244.
13
1668
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOSTON UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on October 01,2025 at 19:25:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

[3]
Estuardo Alpirez Bock, Chris Brzuska, Marc Fischlin,
Christian Janson, and Wil Michiels. “Security Reduc-
tions for White-Box Key-Storage in Mobile Payments”.
In: 26th International Conference on the Theory and
Application of Cryptology and Information Security
(ASIACRYPT). Vol. 12491. Springer, 2020, pp. 221–
252. URL: https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/1014.pdf.
[4]
Lucas Barthelemy. “Toward an Asymmetric White-Box
Proposal”. In: IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive 2020
(2020), p. 893. URL: https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/893.
pdf.
[5]
Shivam Bhasin, Jean Luc Danger, Sylvain Guilley, Xuan
Thuy Ngo, and Laurent Sauvage. “Hardware trojan
horses in cryptographic IP cores”. In: 10th Workshop
on Fault Diagnosis and Tolerance in Cryptography
(FDTC) (2013), pp. 15–29. URL: https://eprint.iacr.
org/2014/750.pdf.
[6]
Swarup Bhunia, Sandip Ray, and Susmita Sur-Kolay.
Fundamentals of IP and SoC Security: Design, Veriﬁ-
cation, and Debug. 1st. Springer, 2017.
[7]
Olivier Billet and Henri Gilbert. “A traceable block
cipher”. In: 9th International Conference on the Theory
and Application of Cryptology and Information Security
(ASIACRYPT). Vol. 2894. 2003, pp. 331–346. URL:
https : / / www . iacr . org / cryptodb / archive / 2003 /
ASIACRYPT/31/31.pdf.
[8]
Olivier Billet, Henri Gilbert, and Charaf Ech-Chatbi.
“Cryptanalysis of a White Box AES Implementation”.
In: 11th International Workshop on Selected Areas in
Cryptography (SAC) 3357 (2004), pp. 227–240. URL:
https://bo.blackowl.org/s/papers/waes.pdf.
[9]
Estuardo Alpirez Bock, Alessandro Amadori, and Chris
Brzuska. “On the Security Goals of White-Box Cryp-
tography”. In: IACR Transactions on Cryptographic
Hardware and Embedded Systems (TCHES) 2 (2020),
pp. 327–357. URL: https://tches.iacr.org/index.php/
TCHES/article/view/8554/8119.
[10]
Estuardo Alpirez Bock and Alexander Treff. “Security
Assessment of White-Box Design Submissions of the
CHES 2017 CTF Challenge”. In: IACR Cryptology
ePrint Archive 2020 (2020), p. 342. URL: https://eprint.
iacr.org/2020/342.pdf.
[11]
Joppe W. Bos, Charles Hubain, Wil Michiels, and
Philippe Teuwen. “Differential computation analysis:
Hiding your white-box designs is not enough”. In:
18th International Conference on Cryptographic Hard-
ware and Embedded Systems (CHES). Springer, 2016,
pp. 215–236. URL: https : / / www. iacr . org / archive /
ches2016/98130106/98130106.pdf.
[12]
Lilian Bossuet and Lionel Torres. Foundations of Hard-
ware IP Protection. 1st ed. Springer, 2017.
[13]
Cadence Design Systems. Using the IEEE 1735 pro-
tection mechanism with a Public key to protect Verilog
code or VHDL code, and how models can share between
vendor tool sets, DECERR or CORRPD error. Aug. 11,
2021.
[14]
Carbon, cypher, mrexodia, and Mattiwatti. ScyllaHide.
2021. URL: https : / / github . com / x64dbg / ScyllaHide
(visited on 12/09/2021).
[15]
Ping Chen, Christophe Huygens, Lieven Desmet, and
Wouter Joosen. “Advanced or not? A comparative study
of the use of anti-debugging and anti-VM techniques in
generic and targeted malware”. In: IFIP International
Conference on ICT Systems Security and Privacy Pro-
tection 471 (2016), pp. 323–336. URL: https://core.ac.
uk/download/pdf/34612995.pdf.
[16]
Xu Chen, Jonathon Andersen, Zhuoqing Morley Mao,
Michael Bailey, and Jose Nazario. “Towards an Under-
standing of Anti-virtualization and Anti-debugging Be-
havior in Modern Malware”. In: 38th Annual IEEE/IFIP
International Conference on Dependable Systems and
Networks (DSN). IEEE, 2008, pp. 177–186. URL: https:
//web.eecs.umich.edu/∼zmao/Papers/DCCS-xu-chen.
pdf.
[17]
Animesh Chhotaray, Adib Nahiyan, Thomas Shrimpton,
Domenic Forte, and Mark Tehranipoor. “Standardizing
Bad Cryptographic Practice: A Teardown of the IEEE
Standard for Protecting Electronic-design Intellectual
Property”. In: Proceedings of the 2017 ACM SIGSAC
Conference on Computer and Communications Security
(CCS). 2017, pp. 1533–1546. URL: https : / / acmccs .
github.io/papers/p1533-chhotarayA.pdf.
[18]
Stanley Chow, Phil Eisen, Harold Johnson, and Paul
C. Van Oorschot. “A white-box DES implementation
for DRM applications”. In: ACM CCS-9 Workshop on
Security and Privacy in Digital Rights Management
(DRM). Springer, 2002, pp. 1–15. URL: https://crypto.
stanford.edu/DRM2002/whitebox.pdf.
[19]
Stanley Chow, Philip Eisen, Harold Johnson, and Paul
C. Van Oorschot. “White-box cryptography and an AES
implementation”. In: 9th Annual International Confer-
ence on Selected Areas in Cryptography (SAC). 2595.
Springer, 2002, pp. 250–270. URL: https://home.cs.
colorado . edu / ∼jrblack / class / csci7000 / f03 / papers /
oorschot-whitebox.pdf.
[20]
Christian Collberg, Clark Thomborson, and Douglas
Low. A taxonomy of obfuscating transformations. Tech.
rep. 1997.
[21]
Conference on Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded
Systems (CHES). Whib0x Contest 2017.
[22]
Conference on Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded
Systems (CHES). Whib0x Contest 2019.
[23]
Conference on Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded
Systems (CHES). Whib0x Contest 2021.
[24]
C´ecile Delerabl´ee, Tancr`ede Lepoint, Pascal Paillier,
and Matthieu Rivain. “White-Box Security Notions for
Symmetric Encryption Schemes”. In: 20th Annual Inter-
national Conference on Selected Areas in Cryptography
(SAC). Vol. 8282. Springer, 2013, pp. 247–264. URL:
https://eprint.iacr.org/2013/523.pdf.
14
1669
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOSTON UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on October 01,2025 at 19:25:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

[25]
Digital.ai. White-Box Cryptography.
URL: https : / /
digital.ai/glossary/whitebox-cryptography (visited on
12/09/2021).
[26]
Dominic Distel. “Markets for Technology in the Semi-
conductor Industry – The Role of Ability-Related Trust
in the Market for IP Cores”. PhD thesis. Technical
University of Munich, 2017. URL: https://mediatum.
ub.tum.de/doc/1357158/1357158.pdf.
[27]
Louis Goubin, Matthieu Rivain, and Junwei Wang. “De-
feating State-of-the-Art White-Box Countermeasures
with Advanced Gray-Box Attacks”. In: IACR Trans-
actions on Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded
Systems (TCHES) 3 (2020), pp. 454–482. URL: https:
//tches.iacr.org/index.php/TCHES/article/view/8597/
8164.
[28]
Jan Hoogerbrugge and Wil Michiels. “Protecting the
Input/Output of Modular Encoded White-Box RSA”.
U.S. Patent 10,726,108 B2. 2020.
[29]
Jan Hoogerbrugge and Wil Michiels. “White-Box Mod-
ular Exponentiation”. U.S. Patent 10,235,506 B2. 2019.
[30]
Jan Hoogerbrugge, Wil Michiels, and Pim Vullers.
“White-Box Elliptic Curve Point Multiplication”. U.S.
Patent 10,068,070 B2. 2018.
[31]
IEEE
Design
Automation
Standards
Committee
(DASC). IEEE 1735-2014 - Recommended Practice
for Encryption and Management of Electronic Design
Intellectual Property (IP). IEEE, 2015.
[32]
IEEE
Design
Automation
Standards
Committee
(DASC). Security Statement. Tech. rep. IEEE, 2017.
URL: http://standards.ieee.org/about/ieee 1735.pdf.
[33]
Intel. Intel Quartus Prime Pro Edition: Version 21.3
Software and Device Support Release Notes. 2021.
URL: https : / / www . intel . com / content / www / us /
en/programmable/documentation/ewa1443722509979.
html.
[34]
Intel. Introduction to Intel® FPGA IP Cores. Ver-
sion 2020.11.09. Sept. 11, 2020. URL: https://www.
intel.com/content/dam/www/programmable/us/en/pdfs/
literature/ug/ug intro to megafunctions.pdf.
[35]
Irdeto. Whitebox Cryptography. URL: https : / / irdeto .
com/whitebox-cryptography/ (visited on 12/09/2021).
[36]
Mohamed Karroumi. “Protecting white-box AES with
dual ciphers”. In: 13th International Conference on In-
formation Security and Cryptology (ICISC). Vol. 6829.
Springer, 2010, pp. 278–291.
[37]
Stan Krolikoski. Year End 2020 DASC Report. Tech.
rep. IEEE Design Automation Standards Committee
(DASC), 2020. URL: https://www.dasc.org/DASC%
20Report%2011.2020.pdf.
[38]
Lattice Semiconductor. Lattice Radiant Software 3.0
User Guide. Version 3.0. June 14, 2021. URL: https:
//www.latticesemi.com/view document?document id=
53229.
[39]
Max Planck Institute for Security and Privacy. HAL -
The Hardware Analyzer. 2019. URL: https://github.com/
emsec/hal (visited on 12/09/2021).
[40]
Travis Meade, Kaveh Shamsi, Thao Le, Jia Di, Shaojie
Zhang, and Yier Jin. “The Old Frontier of Reverse Engi-
neering: Netlist Partitioning”. In: Journal of Hardware
and Systems Security 2.3 (2018), pp. 201–213. URL:
http://jin.ece.uﬂ.edu/papers/HASS2018 netlist.pdf.
[41]
Wil Michiels and Paulus Gorissen. “Exponent Obfusca-
tion”. U.S. Patent 8,600,047 B2. 2013.
[42]
Microchip Technology. Secure IP Flow for IP Vendors
and Libero SoC Users. Version A. May 2021. URL:
https : / / www . microsemi . com / document - portal /
doc download/133573-libero-soc-secure-ip-ﬂow-user-
guide.
[43]
Gary L. Miller. “Riemann’s Hypothesis and Tests for
Primality”. In: Journal of Computer and System Sci-
ences 13.3 (1976), pp. 300–317. URL: https://dl.acm.
org/doi/abs/10.1145/800116.803773.
[44]
Vincent Mirian and Paul Chow. “Extracting designs of
secure IPs using FPGA CAD tools”. In: Proceedings of
the ACM Great Lakes Symposium on VLSI (GLSVLSI)
(2016), pp. 293–298.
[45]
Prabhat Mishra, Swarup Bhunia, and Mark Tehranipoor.
Hardware IP Security and Trust. 1st ed. Springer, 2017.
[46]
Peter L. Montgomery. “Modular Multiplication Without
Trial Division”. In: Mathematics of Computation 44.170
(1985), p. 519. URL: https://www.ams.org/journals/
mcom/1985-44-170/S0025-5718-1985-0777282-X/
S0025-5718-1985-0777282-X.pdf.
[47]
Rachel Selina Rajarathnam, Yibo Lin, Yier Jin, and
David Z. Pan. “ReGDS: A Reverse Engineering Frame-
work from GDSII to Gate-level Netlist”. In: IEEE In-
ternational Symposium on Hardware Oriented Security
and Trust (HOST). 2020, pp. 154–163. URL: https://
ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9300272.
[48]
Eloi Sanfelix, Cristofaro Mune, and Job de Haas.
“Unboxing the White-Box: Practical attacks against
Obfuscated Ciphers”. In: Proceedings of the 2015 Black
Hat Europe Conference (2015). URL: https : / / www.
blackhat.com/docs/eu- 15/materials/eu- 15- Sanfelix-
Unboxing-The-White-Box-Practical-Attacks-Against-
Obfuscated-Ciphers-wp.pdf.
[49]
Amitabh Saxena, Brecht Wyseur, and Bart Preneel. “To-
wards security notions for white-box cryptography”. In:
12th International Conference on Information Security
(ISC). Vol. 5735. Springer, 2009, pp. 49–58. URL: https:
/ / www. esat . kuleuven . be / cosic / publications / article -
1260.pdf.
[50]
Siemens. ModelSim® User’s Manual. Version v10.5c.
URL: https://www.microsemi.com/document- portal/
doc download/136662-modelsim-me-10-5c-user-u-s-
manual-for-libero-soc-v11-8.
[51]
Siemens. SSA-400332: Insufﬁcient Design IP Protec-
tion in Questa and ModelSim. (available latest on
12/14/2021). 2021. URL: https://cert- portal.siemens.
com/productcert/pdf/ssa-400332.pdf.
[52]
Pramod Subramanyan, Nestan Tsiskaridze, Wenchao Li,
Adri`a Gasc´on, Wei Yang Tan, Ashish Tiwari, Natarajan
15
1670
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOSTON UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on October 01,2025 at 19:25:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Shankar, Sanjit A. Seshia, and Sharad Malik. “Reverse
engineering digital circuits using structural and func-
tional analyses”. In: IEEE Transactions on Emerging
Topics in Computing 2.1 (2014), pp. 63–80. URL: https:
//sites.cs.ucsb.edu/∼nestan/pdf/TETCSI.pdf.
[53]
SymbiFlow Team. Project X-Ray. 2021. URL: https://
github.com/SymbiFlow/prjxray (visited on 12/09/2021).
[54]
Thales. White Box Cryptography. URL: https : / / cpl .
thalesgroup . com / software - monetization / white - box -
cryptography (visited on 12/09/2021).
[55]
tomer8007. Widewine L3 Decryptor. 2020. URL: https:
//github.com/tomer8007/widevine-l3-decryptor (visited
on 12/09/2021).
[56]
Claire Wolf and Mathias Lasser. Project IceStorm.
2018. URL: http : / / bygone . clairexen . net / icestorm/
(visited on 12/09/2021).
[57]
Xilinx. Findings on IEEE-1735-2014 recommended
practice from Max Planck Institute for Security and
Privacy (MPI-SP) and Ruhr University Bochum (RUB).
2021. URL: https : / / support . xilinx . com / s / article /
000033507.
[58]
Xilinx. Vivado Design Suite User Guide – Creating
and Packaging Custom IP (UG1118). Version v2021.1.
June 30, 2021. URL: https://www.xilinx.com/support/
documentation / sw manuals / xilinx2021 1 / ug1118 -
vivado-creating-packaging-custom-ip.pdf.
[59]
Hoyoung Yu, Hansol Lee, Sangil Lee, Youngmin Kim,
and Hyung Min Lee. “Recent advances in FPGA reverse
engineering”. In: Electronics 7.10 (2018), pp. 1–14.
URL: https://www.mdpi.com/2079-9292/7/10/246.
[60]
Xuehui Zhang and Mohammad Tehranipoor. “Case
study: Detecting hardware Trojans in third-party dig-
ital IP cores”. In: IEEE International Symposium on
Hardware-Oriented Security and Trust (HOST) (2011),
pp. 67–70.
[61]
Yongxin Zhou and Stanley T. Chow. “System and
Method of Hiding Cryptographic Private Keys”. U.S.
Patent 7,634,091 B2. 2009.
APPENDIX
IEEE AND VENDOR RESPONSES
The vendors covered by our case studies have been cooper-
ative throughout the entire responsible disclosure process and
(at the point of writing) have either updated their tools already
or are working towards ﬁxing the disclosed vulnerabilities.
Moreover, several affected vendors publicly acknowledge our
ﬁndings in coordination with our publication [33, 51, 57]
and guide users through the necessary steps to improve the
protection of their IP. So far, the IEEE has declined multiple
offers to participate in discussions on our attacks and the
future directions of IEEE 1735. We note that within their
correspondence, the IEEE insisted on referring to IEEE 1735
as a “recommended practice” instead of a “standard”.
16
1671
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOSTON UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on October 01,2025 at 19:25:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

