Larger-scale Nakamoto-style Blockchains Don’t Necessarily Offer Better Security
Jannik Albrecht1, Sebastien Andreina2, Frederik Armknecht3,
Ghassan Karame1, Giorgia Marson2, Julian Willingmann1
1Ruhr University Bochum, 2NEC Labs Europe, Germany, 3University of Mannheim Germany
1{jannik.albrecht, ghassan.karame, julian.willingmann}@ruhr-uni-bochum.de
2{sebastien.andreina, giorgia.marson}@neclab.eu, 3armknecht@uni-mannheim.de
Abstract—Extensive research on Nakamoto-style consensus
protocols has shown that network delays degrade the security
of these protocols. Established results indicate that, perhaps
surprisingly, maximal security is achieved when the network
is as small as two nodes due to increased delays in larger
networks. This contradicts the very foundation of blockchains,
namely that decentralization improves security.
In this paper, we take a closer look at how the network
scale affects security of Nakamoto-style blockchains. We argue
that a crucial aspect has been neglected in existing security
models: the larger the network, the harder it is for an attacker
to control a significant amount of power. To this end, we
introduce a probabilistic corruption model to express the
increasing difficulty for an attacker to corrupt resources in
larger networks. Based on our model, we analyze the impact
of the number of nodes on the (maximum) network delay and
the fraction of adversarial power. In particular, we show that
(1) increasing the number of nodes eventually violates security,
but (2) relying on a small number of nodes does not provide
decent security provisions either. We then validate our analysis
by means of an empirical evaluation emulating hundreds of
thousands of nodes in deployments such as Bitcoin, Monero,
Cardano, and Ethereum Classic. Based on our empirical
analysis, we concretely analyze the impact of various real-world
parameters and configurations on the consistency bounds in
existing deployments and on the adversarial power that can be
tolerated while providing security. As far as we are aware, this
is the first work that analytically and empirically explores the
real-world tradeoffs achieved by current popular Nakamoto-
style deployments.
1. Introduction
Over the past decade, blockchain platforms proliferated
and their market shares have grown immensely [1]. Beyond
enabling the realization of decentralized Internet-scale
cryptocurrencies, blockchains provide transparency, strong
security guarantees, and enable open access and participation.
It is indeed expected that the blockchain technology will
stimulate innovation and will positively impact the digital
experience of many enterprises around the globe, e.g., in
applications for payments, Central-Bank Digital Currency,
insurances, crowd funding, or supply chains.
One of the main motivations behind blockchain platforms
is to encode business logic and realize services in a
decentralized manner [2]. The hope is to remove the need
for trusting few central entities and hence to increase
resilience. Consequently, the security of blockchain platforms
has received considerable scrutiny in the literature—with
many attacks showing the limits of foresight in designing
Nakamoto-style blockchains [3], [4].
Introduced with Bitcoin [5] and later adopted by other
blockchains, Nakamoto-style consensus refers to a general
design of permissionless consensus. It typically consists
of a probabilistic leader-election protocol, e.g., Proof of
Work (PoW) or Proof of Stake (PoS), combined with a
set of rules for resolving forks (e.g., the longest chain
rule). Intuitively, Nakamoto-style blockchains are designed
to guarantee agreement on the order of all events as long
as the majority of resources (computing power in PoW
and cryptocurrency stake in PoS) is held by honest nodes.
Honest majority alone, however, is not sufficient for security:
Nakamoto-style consensus additionally requires that blocks
are propagated among honest nodes within a certain time
interval (known to the protocol). In other words, Nakamoto-
style consensus requires a synchronous network.
Recently, a number of contributions [6]–[10] have
formally investigated (and improved) the necessary and
sufficient conditions on the honest-majority assumption under
which the security of Nakamoto-style consensus can be
achieved. These contributions have significantly advanced
the community’s understanding of proving security in existing
blockchains and expressed how security depends on different
parameters such as the stale block rate (i.e., the rate at which
mined blocks are discarded due to a race condition), the
maximum network delay, or the fraction of adversarial power.
However, they only partially capture the initial idea behind
decentralization as they do not address how the scale of the
network (e.g., the number n of nodes) impacts the security
of the platform. More precisely, while it is folklore that an
increase of n results in an increase in the network delay, we
do not know the extent to which security is affected by these
delays. Naturally, higher network delays negatively impact
the security of Nakamoto-style blockchains. On the other
hand, enhancing decentralization intuitively yields an increase
in security, as individual nodes control less relative power.
Unfortunately, existing security models commonly assume
arXiv:2404.09895v1  [cs.CR]  15 Apr 2024

101
102
103
104
105
106
107
Number of nodes
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Security probability
Figure 1: Security probability vs number of nodes. We
measure the probability (cf. Equation (19)) that a Nakamoto-
style blockchain provides persistence and liveness when faced
with the probabilistic node corruption. Here, we consider a
PoW-based blockchain that generates blocks at a rate of one
block per 20 seconds (the case of Cardano). We assume that
an adversary can delay selective blocks by up to 100 seconds,
i.e., five block generations, (e.g., using [3], [4]) and can
corrupt each individual miner with probability 12.5%. Our
results show that a network comprising of 20 000 nodes is
optimal in terms of security, but that a blockchain comprising
of 10 nodes offers larger security compared to a network
comprising of a million nodes.
that the adversarial power is independent of n, neglecting
the positive impact of the network scale on the adversarial
power. In other words, out of these two opposing forces only
the former one has been well studied. A further shortcoming
is that existing results abstract away various peculiarities
that impact real-world deployment models. For example,
simply assuming a synchronous network (as is the case in
existing analyses) neglects the fact that different blockchain
deployments, e.g., Bitcoin and Ethereum Classic, rely on
different gossip protocols, which exhibit drastically different
robustness to adversarial attacks.
In this paper, our ultimate goal is to analytically and
empirically understand the impact of relevant real-world
parameters (such as the number of nodes in the network,
the delays in the network, and the power controlled by
the adversary) on the security of current Nakamoto-style
deployments. To do so, we revisit and extend the state-of-
the-art security model for blockchains [10] to investigate
the impact of the number of nodes on the (maximum)
network delay and the fraction of adversarial power. By
leveraging this analysis and our aforementioned security
model, we concretely analyze the impact of various real-
world parameters on the consistency bounds and adversarial
power that can be tolerated in existing Nakamoto-style
deployments—while encompassing aspects such as the gossip
layer and possible network-layer attacks. We summarize our
contributions in this work as follows:
Gap in existing security models We show a gap in exist-
ing security models for Nakamoto-style blockchains (cf.
Section 2). Namely, existing models assume an attacker
who is able to corrupt a constant fraction of validators.
This, however, ignores the fact that the number of nodes
affects the system’s robustness against corruption. We
address this gap by revisiting and extending existing
security models to capture this very notion that is
intrinsic to decentralization.
Theoretical analysis We establish, for the first time, the
relationship between the number of nodes populating a
blockchain platform and the resulting adversarial power
that can be tolerated by Nakamoto-style consensus
(cf. Section 3). Our analysis confirms the intuition
that an increase of the number of nodes has positive
(stronger resilience) and negative (longer delays) aspects.
Moreover, it shows that for a small number of nodes, the
positive aspects outweigh the negative ones, but only up
to a certain threshold. Beyond this threshold, security
starts to decrease again for an increasing number of
nodes (see example in Figure 1).
Large-scale evaluation We validated our findings by means
of experiments. Namely, we empirically evaluated the
impact of the number of nodes, and other real-world
factors, such as the gossip protocol, on the consis-
tency achieved by popular Nakamoto-style blockchains,
namely Bitcoin, Ethereum Classic, Monero, and Car-
dano. We also evaluated the impact of deployments of
mining pools with dedicated high-speed network, as
well as the impact of real-world network layer attacks
on practical deployments of these protocols and their
respective gossip layers. The combined outcomes of our
theoretical and empirical analyses provide new insights
towards understanding the impact of real-world param-
eters, such as the number of validators, the numbers of
zero-power nodes, and the underlying gossip protocols
on the security of blockchain systems (cf. Section 7). For
instance, we show that an adversary that controls as little
as 28% and 22% of the computing power in Cardano
and Ethereum Classic (respectively) could violate the
consistency in the system when the network comprises a
million nodes. As far as we are aware, these are the first
experiments that quantify the impact of large network
scales, ranging to hundreds of thousands of nodes, on
security. For reproducibility purposes, we provide the
modified simulator open source1.
2. System and Security Model
We start by explaining our system model (Section 2.1),
and overview prior security models (Section 2.2). Finally,
we outline gaps in those models (Section 2.3).
2.1. System Model
A blockchain is a distributed data-structure, forming
a sequence of blocks, where new blocks are appended at
1. https://github.com/RUB-InfSec/simblock
2

nval:
number of validators
nZP:
number of zero-power nodes
n:
number of nodes (n:= nval + nZP)
ρadv:
fraction of adversarial power
ρhon:
fraction of honest power
λ:
block frequency
∆:
upper bound on a blockchain’s internal delays
e:
magnification factor
Table 1: Summary of parameters used throughout this work.
a regular pace. A blockchain platform is composed of a
blockchain and a set of participating validators, who form a
peer-to-peer (P2P) network and maintain the blockchain. A
peer-to-peer network can be modeled by a graph, whose
nodes represent the different parties and whose edges
represent direct connections. In the sequel, we use the term
node to refer to any of the parties.
The high-level goal of a blockchain platform is to
consistently maintain a distributed database of totally-ordered
transactions, the blockchain, which is replicated among the
various parties and extended by appending new blocks. As
discussed, we assume here the use of a Nakamoto-style
consensus protocol and abstract away from the peculiarities
of the underlying leader election protocol (e.g., PoW or
PoS). Here, the protocol can be thought of as executing
in synchronous rounds, where each round corresponds to
a sufficiently long (compared to the network delay) time
interval. After retrieving new blocks and transactions from
the network, validators verify the validity of transactions
as well as of possible alternative chains they received. We
remain deliberately vague about how transactions are verified
since it is a protocol-specific detail that would otherwise
restrict our treatment to specific platforms. Transactions
that are deemed correct are included in their next block
proposals. When alternative chains are formed, validators
then choose which chain they want to accept based on some
pre-defined fork resolution protocol (e.g., the longest chain
rule in Bitcoin). Popular Nakamoto-style blockchains include
Bitcoin, Monero, Ethereum Classic and Cardano.
The notion of security in a blockchain-based consensus
protocol is tightly related to the process of appending blocks
(as we explain in detail in Section 2.2). Consequently, we
follow existing work and explicitly distinguish between nodes
that actively participate in the process of generating new
blocks (validators) and nodes that simply relay information
and blocks (zero-power nodes). The latter are often referred
to as full nodes: they typically store a copy of the entire
ledger and help in verifying transactions but are not involved
in generating new blocks. We denote by V the set of all
validators and refer to the number of validators as nval := |V|.
Similarly, we refer to the number of zero-power nodes as
nZP and the total number of nodes as n := nval + nZP.
Occasionally, we assume some fixed ordering on V and
simply use i ∈[nval] for the i-th validator in V.
We denote by π each validator’s absolute power, e.g.,
the number of hashes per second for PoW blockchains
or the amount of stake in PoS blockchains, and define
π(V′) := P
v∈V′ π(v) for each (sub-)set V′ of validators.
We assume that validators are working independently. That
is, if in practice several validators join a pool, then in our
model they are represented as one validator. We summarize
the various notations that we will use throughout this paper
in Table 1.
Relative power ρadv. A validator can be either honest, if
it follows the protocol specification, or be under adversarial
control, i.e., being corrupted. We denote by Vhon and Vadv
the set of honest and adversarial validators, respectively.
These sets are disjoint by definition, i.e., V = Vhon ˙∪Vadv.
We denote the absolute power of the respective sets by
πhon = π(Vhon) and πadv = π(Vadv). Similarly, we compute
the relative power as follows:
ρhon = πhon
π(V)
and
ρadv = πadv
π(V).
(1)
Block Generation Rate λ. Validators generate blocks with
a frequency of λ blocks per second. For example, λ =
1
600
in Bitcoin, with a new block being found roughly every
ten minutes. If not stated otherwise, we assume that λ is
a fixed system parameter and in particular independent of
nval. We ground this assumption on the dynamic difficulty
adjustment of popular Nakamoto-style blockchains, such as
Bitcoin and Ethereum 1.0. For instance, Bitcoin regularly
updates its difficulty to ensure that λ =
1
600 for the last
2016 generated blocks. Similarly, Ethereum 1.0 updates the
difficulty to ensure that λ =
1
13.
Maximum Communication Delay ∆.
Conforming with
existing Nakamoto-style blockchains, validators exchange
messages using a peer-to-peer network. While in practice
messages consist of blocks, transactions, and other meta-
data, we focus mostly in our analysis on the propagation
of blocks; these are typically bulky in size and require non-
negligible time to be delivered. We denote the delay between
two communicating validators v1, v2 ∈V by δ(v1, v2), with
δ(v, v) = 0 for every validator v ∈V. Here, the delay
expresses how much it takes, in time units, for a block to be
propagated from v1 to v2. In most cases, v1 and v2 are not
communicating directly but use multi-hop-communication.
That is, δ(v1, v2) scales linearly with the length of the
shortest path connecting v1 and v2 in the network. Adopting
common notation, the maximum delay ∆refers to the largest
delay between any two nodes:
∆:= max
v,v′∈V{δ(v, v′)}.
(2)
2.2. Existing Security Models
Over the past decade, a series of contributions [6]–[10]
attempted to shed lights on the necessary and sufficient
conditions on the majority assumption under which the
security of a blockchain protocol can be achieved. Naturally,
these conditions improved and got tighter over time. Before
describing the main results of this work, we start by
introducing established security notions for blockchain-based
consensus protocols.
3

Authors
Condition
RB / CT
Comments
Garay et al. [6]
ρhon > ρadv
RB
Delivery of messages at the end of each round, i.e., δr = 0.
Pass et al. [11]
ρhon(1 −(2δr + 2))ρhon) > ρadv
RB
Delivery of messages within δr rounds.
Kiffer et al. [7]
Non-closed form (cf. Zhao et al. [8])
RB
Delivery of messages within δr rounds; tighten bound from [11] using Markov models.
Zhao et al. [8]
(1 −p)2µn∆> ρadv
RB
Improved consistency bound from [7] (simpler, closed-form expression).
Ling Ren [9]
ρhone−2ρhon∆> ρadv
CT
Block generation modeled as a Poisson process.
Dembo et al. [10]
ρhon
1+ρhonλ∆> e · ρadv
CT
Universal condition for all instances of Nakamoto-style blockchains.
Table 2: Honest-majority conditions for the security of Nakamoto-style consensus. RB and CT stand for round-based and
continuous-time models respectively. All conditions assume validators have equal power.
Security Properties.
Coining the security properties for
blockchains has received considerable attention in the
literature. Popular security properties consist of ensuring
liveness and persistence. We shortly summarize these and
refer to [6], [10] for a formal definition.
Persistence guarantees that if a transaction is included “deep
enough” in the blockchain of an honest node (i.e., it is
confirmed), eventually it will be included in the local
blockchain replicas of all honest nodes, at the same
blockchain height.
Liveness ensures that every transaction received by honest
nodes will eventually be included in the blockchains
of all honest nodes as a confirmed transaction (i.e.,
sufficiently deep in the ledger).
Existing security models. We now summarize the main
results from prior work. We focus on outlining the various
reported conditions under which a blockchain protocol
based on Nakamoto-consensus can be proven secure, and
summarize the most significant conditions in Table 2.
Garay et al. [6] show that Bitcoin can be proven secure if
ρhon > ρadv. Here, validators are assumed to mine in rounds,
which we refer to in the following as a round-based model.
All validators follow a uniform distribution of hashing power.
That is, each validator has a fixed number of hash queries
per round, i.e., a uniform hash rate.
Pass et al. [11] later expanded this round-based model
by considering non-zero message delays. This improved
model uses a network delay bound δr, which assumes that
all messages are eventually delivered after at most δr rounds.
Under those assumptions, the authors proved Bitcoin to be
secure when ρhon(1 −(2δr + 2)ρhon) > ρadv is satisfied.
Kiffer et al. [7] extended the security analysis of Pass et al.
using the Markov model, which resulted in more accurate
bounds on consistency. Later, Zhao et al. [8] further reduced
the complexity of the security condition in [7].
Later on, Ren [9] extended these models to capture
continuous-time security. Here, validators can generate and
propagate blocks in parallel, where the event of a block being
mined is modeled by a Poisson process. The results due to
Ren [9] corroborate the results by Zhao et al. Finally, Dembo
et al. [10] extended the previous models by making them
applicable to all instances of Nakamoto-style blockchains.
The authors show that both persistence and liveness are
guaranteed (up to a value being negligible in some security
parameter) if and only if the following inequality holds:
e · ρadv <
1 −ρadv
1 + (1 −ρadv)λ∆.
(3)
Recall that ρadv, λ, and ∆refer to the fraction of adversarial
power, the block generation rate, and the maximum commu-
nication delay, respectively (cf. Section 2.1). Moreover, e is
a magnification factor that has been specifically introduced
to capture the Nothing-at-Stake nature of the Chia Proof-of-
Space protocol.
2.3. Gaps in Existing Models
While existing security models significantly boosted the
understanding of the security of blockchains, several gaps
can be identified.
First and foremost, existing models provide only limited
insight into the security of real-world blockchains. More
precisely, apart from λ, neither ∆nor ρadv are system
parameters that can be tuned directly. Instead, these values
depend on other parameters and design choices. So far, these
connections have hardly been investigated. Second, they
indicate that optimal security is given for small networks,
e.g., blockchain platforms with n = 2 nodes or n = 3 nodes,
as communication delays will be minimal in this case.
Motivating Example.
For instance, consider a Nakamoto-
style blockchain consisting of three nodes each controlling
1
3 of the network’s power (cf. Blockchain A in Figure 2).
Consider another Nakamoto-style blockchain comprising
of six nodes each controlling
1
6 of the total power (cf.
Blockchain B in Figure 2). In this example, it is clear that
delays witnessed among the nodes in Blockchain B are larger
than those witnessed in Blockchain A. Notice, here, that an
adversary that controls two out of three nodes in Blockchain
A, e.g., nodes a and b, has the same relative power as an
adversary that controls four out of six nodes, e.g., nodes
{d, e, f, g}, in Blockchain B. However, since Blockchain B
features a higher overall delay compared to Blockchain A,
Blockchain A is deemed to provide better security according
to existing models [10] (cf. Equation (3)). This is clearly not
supported in practice: namely, an adversary typically is more
likely to succeed in corrupting two nodes in Blockchain
A rather than four nodes in Blockchain B. Intuitively, the
more nodes a system comprises, the more robust it should be
against compromise. Current security models unfortunately
do not allow to cover this aspect.
Research Questions.
The overarching goal of our work is
to understand the concrete impact of real-world parameters
on the overall security of a blockchain platform. Towards
this goal, we tackle the following research questions:
4

Blockchain A
Blockchain B
Figure 2: Motivating Example. Existing security models
consider Blockchain A (left) to be more secure than
Blockchain B (right).
RQ1: What is the precise relationship between security
and the number of nodes? The first and most obvious
parameter that contributes to decentralization is the
number of nodes n (recall that the central motivation
behind blockchains is to securely realize functionalities
in a decentralized manner). A larger n improves security
by making corruption of a significant fraction of nodes
harder, and at the same time it harms security by causing
higher delays. Our work aims to understand the precise
effect of these two opposing forces on security.
RQ2: Do the security and consistency bounds properly
capture issues stemming from practical deployments?
Security analyses of Nakamoto-style consensus proto-
cols assume an upper bound ∆on the communication
delays in the network. It remains unclear how these
bounds can be established for safe deployments in
practice. Intuitively, the larger n, the larger the peer-to-
peer network, hence the larger the maximum commu-
nication delay ∆. However, besides n, the underlying
choice of the gossip protocol and the block size have a
considerable influence on delays; different blockchains
feature different gossip protocols and various block
sizes. As opposed to n, the choice of the gossip protocol
and the block size are under the control of the system
designers. Moreover, network attacks, such as [3], [4],
have a detrimental impact on the delays witnessed by
current blockchains. Another major goal of our work
is to assess how and to what extent such attacks affect
the security Nakamoto-style consensus in real-world
deployments.
3. Our Security Framework
In this section, we investigate the impact of decen-
tralization, expressed by the number n of nodes, on the
security of Nakamoto-style blockchains. Our main result
is Theorem 4 in Section 3.3, that provides a means to
assess Pr [Esec[nval, nZP]], where Esec is the event that the
blockchain is secure (cf. Definition 1 in Section 3.1), nval is
the number of validators, and nZP the number of zero-power
nodes. We achieve this as follows:
1) In Section 3.1, we revisit the results from Dembo et
al. [10] providing a necessary and sufficient condition
for Esec. This condition depends on two parameters:
the maximum delay ∆and the fraction of adversarial
power ρadv. In particular, it allows us to concentrate
on Esec[∆, ρadv].
2) To connect Esec[∆, ρadv] to (nval, nZP), we describe af-
terwards how (∆, ρadv) depend on (nval, nZP), i.e., the
number of validators and zero-power nodes, respectively.
The impact of n on the delay, i.e., ∆(n), is expressed
in Theorem 2, which is actually a direct consequence of
previous work. The analysis of the relation between the
number nval of validators and the fraction of adversarial
power, i.e., ρadv(nval), is given in Section 3.2. Note that
for this analysis, we have to extend existing security
models and introduce a new corruption model. Namely,
existing security models assume an attacker, who is able
to corrupt a constant fraction of validators. This, however,
goes against the very notion of decentralization as it
ignores the fact that an increase of nval could make the
system more robust against corruption. Therefore, we
instead consider a corruption model, where the success
probability of an attacker to corrupt one validator is
independent of how many other validators may have
been corrupted so far.
3) Finally, in Section 3.3 we plug these results together to
state in Theorem 4 how Esec depends on (nval, nZP).
Semi-formally, the roadmap in this Section is as follows:
Esec
Sec. 3.1
↔
Esec[∆, ρadv]
T hm. 2&Sec. 3.2
↔
Esec[∆(nval + nZP), ρadv(nval)]
Sec. 3.3
↔
Esec[nval, nZP].
3.1. Security Model
We start by reformulating the security condition showed
by Dembo et al. [10]. To simplify the discussion, we
introduce the following notation to express the security of a
Nakamoto-style blockchain:
Definition 1 (Event of Security Esec). For a given blockchain,
we denote by Esec the event that the system provides
persistence and liveness. If this does not hold, we write
¬Esec. Moreover, we say that the system is secure if and
only if Esec holds.
The term Pr [Esec] expresses the probability that Esec is
true. We extend this notation as follows: Pr [Esec[x1, . . . , xℓ]]
is likewise the probability that Esec is true while certain
parameters x1, . . . , xℓof the blockchain are specified.
Using this notation, we can reformulate the security
condition shown in [10] as follows:
Theorem 1. Consider a Nakamoto-style blockchain with
n nodes, where all validators possess the same amount
of power. The system has a block frequency λ and a
maximum communication delay of ∆. Moreover, let e be the
5

magnification factor as explained in Section 2.2 and ρadv
be the fraction of adversarial power ρadv. Then,
Esec[nval, nZP]
⇔
e · ρadv <
1 −ρadv
1 + (1 −ρadv)λ∆(4)
⇔
f(ρadv) · λ · ∆< 1,
(5)
where f(ρadv) =

e·ρadv·(1−ρadv)
1−ρadv·(1+e)

.
Recall that ρadv (cf. Equation (1)) takes into account the
adversary’s relative power (i.e., computing power or amount
of stake) when generating new blocks, e.g., the mining
difficulty for PoW blockchains. Equation (5) in Theorem 1
directly follows by rearranging Equation (4). In this equation,
we have three factors f(ρadv), λ, and ∆, and security is only
guaranteed if and only if their product is below 1. Before
we analyze the relation into more details, we first discuss
the implications of the first factor, f(ρadv).
Lemma 1. The function f(ρadv) is strictly increasing in
ρadv ∈[0,
1
1+e). Moreover, it holds that f(0) = 0 and
limρadv→
1
1+e f(ρadv) = ∞.
Proof. Consider the derivative of f(ρadv):
f ′(ρadv) = e ·
 (e + 1) · ρ2
adv −2ρadv + 1

((e + 1) · ρadv −1)2
.
Since e ≥1, it holds that
e ·
 (e + 1) · ρ2
adv −2ρadv + 1

>
 ρ2
adv −2ρadv + 1

=
(ρadv −1)2
>
0
and ((e + 1) · ρadv −1)2 > 0 as well. Thus, f ′(ρadv) > 0
in the considered domain. The second part of Lemma 1
follows easily by inspecting f(x).
In consequence, we see a tradeoff between security
(f(ρadv)) and efficiency (λ · ∆). Namely, an increase of
f(ρadv) (which is equivalent to an increase of ρadv as f is
strictly monotonically rising, cf. Lemma 1) does not break
security as long as ∆is sufficiently small and vice versa. In
the sequel, we investigate how these two parameters depend
on the number nval of validators and nZP of zero-power
nodes.
With respect to the impact of the number of validators
on ∆, we can actually make use of the following known
result based on [12, Theorem 6] (see Appendix A for more
details).
Theorem 2 (Maximum Delay). For a blockchain with n
nodes, it holds that:
∆(n) ∈Θ(log(n)).
(6)
A consequence is that ∆(n) can be approximated by
a · log(n) + b for some constants a, b. In particular, ∆(n)
increases with if the number n increases.
3.2. Corruption Model
We now investigate how the second parameter from
Theorem 1, namely the relative adversarial power ρadv,
depends on the number n of nodes. More precisely, we
consider the number nval of validators only, as zero-power
nodes do not possess any mining power and hence no
corrupted zero-power nodes does influence ρadv. In what
follows, we first explain the considered corruption model
and derive bounds on ρadv afterwards in Theorem 3.
In general, an attacker can corrupt validators to control
their resources (cf. Section 2.1). Contrary to previous models
[6]–[11], we do not impose an upper bound on the number
of corrupted nodes. Instead, we assume that each validator
can be probabilistically corrupted independently of the other
validators, in line with Gentry et al. [13]. Moreover, to
ensure that our model generalized to realistic scenarios,
we also assume that the corruption probability can differ
among different validators. That is, our proposed corruption
model allows to capture situations where the validators
with a huge amount of resources are better protected and
hence more resilient against corruption and vice versa. This
generalization, however, imposes another question: as we
consider an increasing number of validators, we need to
decide the corruption probability for each validator that
newly joins the blockchain. Our approach here is to divide
the set of validators into a number of different types, let’s
say ℓ. Each type i has a different probability p(i) of being
corrupted. Moreover, there are probabilities q(1), . . . , q(ℓ)
where q(i) denotes the probability that a freshly joining
validator is of type i, that is can be corrupted with probability
p(i). To formally capture this, we introduce the notion of a
characterization:
Definition 2 (Characterization). A characterization C is a
sequence of value pairs
C =

(p(1), q(1)), . . . , (p(ℓ), q(ℓ))

(7)
such that p(i), q(i) ∈[0, 1] for i = 1, . . . , ℓand Pℓ
i=1 q(i) =
1.
We are now ready to define a random variable Radv that
expresses the fraction of adversarial power. Recall that nval
denotes the number of validators in the network.
Definition 3 (Random Variable Radv(nval, C)). We consider
the following random experiment, based on an integer nval
and a characterization C =
 (p(1), q(1)), . . . , (p(ℓ), q(ℓ))

.
In the experiment, the following procedure is repeated for
j = 1, . . . , nval. First, a validator type is sampled according
to the distribution
 q(1), . . . , q(ℓ)
. Let the outcome be
denoted by ij. Then, with a probability of p(ij), the validator
is marked as corrupted.
The random variable Radv(nval, C) is defined by the
fraction of successful corruption attempts, that is
Radv(nval, C) = # corrupted validators
nval
.
(8)
6

It holds that the probability of a new validator of getting
corrupted is
p∗:=
ℓ
X
i=1
q(i) · p(i)
(9)
Note that value of Radv(nval, C) is exactly the parameter
ρadv from Theorem 1. Our approach allows to express the
probability that ρadv is below a certain threshold. Namely,
Pr
h
Radv(nval) ≤
k
nval
i
for any choice of k is equal to the
probability that up to k out of nval corruption attempts have
been successful. It therefore holds that:
Pr

Radv(nval) ≤
k
nval

=
k
X
i=0
nval
i

(p∗)i · (1 −p∗)nval−i
(10)
For analyzing the asymptotic behavior of Radv(nval, C)
(in dependence of nval), we will derive some bounds for
Radv(nval, C).
Theorem
3
(Bounding
Radv(nval, C)).
Let
C
=
 (p(i), q(i))
ℓ
i=1 and p∗:= Pℓ
i=1 q(i) · p(i). Then, it holds
for any 0 ≤ε < p∗that
Pr [|Radv(nval, C) −p∗| ≥ε] ≤2e−nval·
ε2
3·p∗.
(11)
An immediate consequence of Theorem 3 is the follow-
ing:
Corollary
1
(Limits
of
Radv(nval, C)).
Let
C
=
 (p(i), q(i))
ℓ
i=1. It holds that
lim
nval→∞Radv(nval, C) =
ℓ
X
i=1
q(i) · p(i).
(12)
To prove Theorem 3, we make use of the following
Chernhoff Bound:
Lemma 2 (Chernhoff Bound). Let X1, . . . , Xn be inde-
pendent random variables such that Xi always lies in the
interval [0; 1]. Define X = P
i Xi and µ = E [X]. Then for
any d ∈(0, 1), it holds that
Pr [|X −µ| ≥d · µ] ≤2e−µ·d2
3 .
(13)
We are now ready to prove Theorem 3.
Proof of Theorem 3. We consider the random experiment as
defined in Definition 3. For i = 1, . . . , nval, we define the
following Bernoulli random variables:
Xi =
(
1,
if i-th validator is corrupted
0,
otherwise.
(14)
Recall that for any validator, q(j) expresses the probability
that it can be corrupted with probability p(j). As a
consequence, we can rephrase the random variables Xi as
follows:
Xi =
(
1,
with probability p∗
0,
else
(15)
with p∗= Pℓ
j=1 q(j) · p(j). Observe that X = P
i∈[nval] Xi
is the number of corrupted validators and hence
Radv(nval, C) = X
nval
=
P
i∈[nval] Xi
nval
.
(16)
Moreover, the expected value of a single random variable
Xi is
E [Xi] = p∗.
(17)
As the variables Xi are pairwise independent, it follows that
E [X] = E
"nval
X
i=1
Xi
#
= nval · p∗.
(18)
The Chernoff bound (Lemma 2) gives for any d ∈(0, 1)
Pr [|X −nval · p∗| ≥d · (nval · p∗)]
≤
2e−
nval·p∗d2
3
⇔Pr

X
nval
−p∗
 ≥d · p∗

≤
2e−
nval·p∗d2
3
(16)
⇔Pr [|Radv(nval, C) −p∗| ≥d · p∗]
≤
2e−
nval·p∗d2
3
If we express d :=
ε
p∗for a sufficiently small ε such that
the condition 0 < δ < 1 is preserved, i.e., 0 ≤ε < p∗, then
d · p∗can be replaced by ε and we get Equation (11).
3.3. Security Analysis
Next, we use the previous results to derive our main
theorem:
Theorem 4. Consider a Nakamoto-style blockchain with
n = nval + nZP nodes with nval being the number of
validators and nZP being the number of zero-power nodes.
Let p∗denote the probability for an arbitrary validator to
be corrupted.
It holds that:
Pr [Esec[nval, nZP]] =
:=g(n)
z
}|
{
⌊ρmax
adv · nval⌋
X
i=0
nval
i

(p∗)i · (1 −p∗)nval−i
(19)
with
ρmax
adv = Γ + 1 + e
2Γ
−
sΓ + 1 + e
2Γ
2
−1
Γ,
(20)
where Γ ∈Θ (eλ log(nval + nZP)).
Note that function g(n) captures what is commonly
referred to as the “Nakamoto coefficient” and refers to the
minimum number of nodes that have to be corrupted in
order for an adversary to successfully attack a Nakamoto-
style blockchain.
7

Proof of Theorem 4. Because of Theorem 1, it holds that
Esec[nval, nZP]
⇔
e · ρadv <
1 −ρadv
1 + (1 −ρadv)λ∆(21)
⇔
ρadv ≤ρmax
adv (∆).
(22)
Thus, it holds that:
Pr [Esec[nval, nZP]] = Pr [Radv(nval) ≤ρmax
adv ]
(23)
Equation (19) is a direct consequence of Section 3.2.
Moreover, it holds that
ρmax
adv (∆) :=
eλ∆+1+e
2eλ∆
−
q  eλ∆+1+e
2eλ∆
2 −
1
eλ∆
(24)
=
Γ+1+e
2Γ
−
q  Γ+1+e
2Γ
2 −1
Γ,
(25)
where Γ = eλ∆. Since ∆∈Θ (log(nval + nZP)) (cf.
Theorem 2), we conclude that Γ ∈Θ (eλ log(nval + nZP)).
In Figure 3, we quantify the security probability
according to Equation (19) with respect to the block
generation rate λ. We observe that Pr [Esec[nval, nZP]]
is almost 100% for modest block generation rates λ ≤
10−4 and tends to 0% for λ ≥10−1. We also observe
that Pr [Esec[nval, nZP]] decreases as p∗and n increase
(cf. Section 5.2).
Further, Theorem 4 allows us to express the impact of n
on the overall security of a blockchain. Actually, it holds that
if n keeps on increasing, the blockchain inevitably becomes
insecure:
Lemma 3 (Limits of Pr [Esec[nval, nZP]] ). It holds that
lim
n=nval+nZP→∞Pr [Esec[nval, nZP]] = 0.
(26)
Proof. Due to Theorem 1, it holds that:
Esec[nval, nZP] ⇔f(ρadv(nval)) · λ · ∆(nval, nZP) < 1.
(27)
To show the claim for limn=nval+nZP→∞, we need to prove
the following 2 statements:
lim
nZP→∞Pr [Esec[nval, nZP]]
=
0 and
lim
nval→∞Pr [Esec[nval, nZP]]
=
0.
Let nval be some fixed value. Recall that ∆(nval, nZP) ∈
O(log(nZP)) due to Theorem 2. Hence, we have
lim
nZP→∞(f(ρadv(nval))
|
{z
}
=const.
·λ · ∆(nval, nZP)
|
{z
}
→∞
) = ∞.
(28)
In particular, it is guaranteed that for a sufficiently large
nZP, the condition given in Equation (27) cannot be met.
Moreover:
lim
nZP→∞Pr [Esec[nval, nZP]] = 0.
This proves the first statement.
10−4
10−3
10−2
10−1
λ
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Pr [Esec[nval]]
p∗=0.1, n =100
p∗=0.1, n =40000
p∗=0.3, n =100
p∗=0.3, n =40000
p∗=0.49, n =100
p∗=0.49, n =40000
Figure 3: Impact of the block generation rate on the security
probability (cf. Equation (19)).
To prove the second statement, we make use of the fact
that due to Corollary 1, it holds that limnval→∞ρadv(nval) =
const.. Thus, similar to above, it follows
lim
nval→∞(f(ρadv(nval))
|
{z
}
→const.
·λ · ∆(nval, nZP)
|
{z
}
→∞
) = ∞.
(29)
Summary of the results. Theorem 1 illustrates the relation
between the three parameters ρadv, λ, and ∆. In particular,
the higher one of these values, the lower the others need to
be. In combination with Theorem 2, it confirms the common
belief that an increase in the number of nodes increases the
communication delay and hence reduces the set of possible
safe parameters. However, it also shows that the impact on ∆
is only logarithmic, which is confirmed by our experiments
in Section 4.
This is also important when one relates the impact
of n on ∆with its impact on ρadv. On the one hand,
Lemma 3 shows that if a blockchain gets too large (in
terms of n), guaranteeing security is impossible. Thus,
the decentralization approach has its limits and having
too many validators can be counterproductive. On the
other hand, an increase of nval makes the system more
robust against corruption. From Theorem 3, we know that
Pr
h
Radv(nval) ≤
k
nval
i
for some fixed k is subject to high
variations for small nval but becomes more stable with
increasing nval.
That is, we have two concurrent trends2: increasing nval
negatively impacts security due to the increase of ∆, and at
the same time, positively impacts security as high values of
ρadv become less likely.
In Section 5, we investigate the impact of real-world
parameters on these tradeoffs.
2. As an increase of nZP only increases the communication delay without
helping to protect against corruption, we ignore nZP from now on and
focus on Pr [Esec[nval]].
8

4. Empirical Validation
To analyze the outcomes of our analysis (cf. Section 3)
on current real-world deployments, we conducted large-
scale measurements to derive realistic upper bounds on the
network delay as the network scale grows. Our ultimate
goal is to establish a precise relation between the number of
nodes n and the maximum network delay ∆for each of the
analyzed Nakamoto-style deployments. Besides validating
the theoretical results, this first set of experiments allows us
to derive protocol-specific constants a, b such that ∆(n) ≈
a · log(n) + b (cf. Theorem 2).
4.1. Methodology
We opted to validate our findings empirically by means
of simulations. Indeed, our analysis explores the security of
large-scale blockchains, i.e., those comprising of hundreds
of thousands of nodes. Simulations emerge as one of the few
workable options to empirically evaluate such large-scale
networks (it is virtually impossible to deploy a blockchain
network with hundreds of thousands of nodes otherwise).
All our experiments were executed on a server running
Ubuntu 18.04 and OpenJDK 11.07. The server is equipped
with two AMD EPYC 7642 48-Core Processors and 256 GB
of RAM. Unless stated otherwise, every data point in our
plots is averaged over 5 independent runs of 100 blocks.
Overview of SimBlock. Our implementation is based on the
open-source SimBlock simulator [14] implemented in Java.
SimBlock is a simulator designed specifically for evaluating
the block propagation in real-world blockchain networks.
Its primary purpose is to provide a controlled environment
for assessing blockchain performance and security. Towards
this end, it simulates a network of nodes placed in different
regions according to some input geographical distribution,
and derives the network performance (i.e., throughput and
latency) of each node from a configuration file specifying
delays between regions (i.e., a node in Europe has a lower
latency to send to another node in Europe compared to Asia,
North America, etc.). The total delay to send a message from
node A to node B is then based on the message size, the
minimum between the upload bandwidth of node A and the
download bandwidth of node B, and the maximum between
the two nodes’ latencies.
SimBlock simulates communication between blockchain
nodes based on events. Events are triggered by nodes sending
messages over the network and generating blocks. SimBlock
discretizes time using milliseconds as the base unit and
constructs a global timeline of all events based on their
chronological order so that they are processed sequentially
(simultaneous events are processed in an arbitrary order).
Events associated to a message are added to the global
timeline based on their reception time. For each message,
the reception time is interpolated from the propagation delay
(defined as the maximum latency between the sender and
the receiver) and the transmission delay (defined as the size
of the message divided by the minimum throughput between
the sender and receiver).
The simulation is initiated by a randomly selected node
generating the genesis block and adopting it as the longest
chain. Upon reception or adoption of a new block, nodes
proceed with the propagation by compiling a list of messages
to transmit to their neighboring nodes, based on the specified
propagation mechanism (cf. Figure 4). If the node is a non-
zero miner, the node further randomly samples the time to
generate the next block following an exponential distribution
with λ =
1
600 ∗
π
π(V), where
π
π(V) represents the node’s
relative mining power; the resulting block generation time
is then added to the timeline.
Events within SimBlock encompass all message ex-
changes between nodes (e.g., inv messages in Figure 4) as
well as block generation events. This allows us to accurately
measure the propagation of different messages and blocks,
as well as implementing different adversarial strategies,
such as incurring artificial delay on certain links. Notice
that simulations are deterministic assuming the same initial
random seed. More importantly, the output of the simulator
does not depend on hardware configurations, such as the
number of cores or the amount of RAM.
Calibration.
To ensure a realistic setup, we calibrated
the configuration file specifying the network’s bandwidth
and latency so as to yield comparable block-propagation
times and stale-block rate to the KASTEL dataset [15],
[16]. We also relied on the geographical distribution of
nodes as reported by [17]. We include additional details
on the parameter calibration of the simulator and the
resulting average throughput and latency for each region
in Appendix B.
Modifications to SimBlock.
Unfortunately, the publicly
available version of SimBlock exhibits serious scalability
limitations. For instance, the maximum scale of a blockchain
network that we could emulate was initially limited to around
70 000 validators in our experimental setup due to limitations
in the precision of floating points when calculating the
difficulty of the blocks. Therefore, we significantly extended
SimBlock as follows:
Fine-grained difficulty Since Java’s float data type is
limited to 64 bits, the accuracy of the difficulty is limited
when dealing with a big value of total block generation
power. We bypassed this limitation by encoding only
the relative block generation power of each node instead
of the total block generation power.
Gossip protocol variants To account for various deploy-
ments, beyond Bitcoin and altcoins, such as Monero
and Cardano, we additionally implemented the hybrid
and direct push protocols and revised the low-bandwidth
implementation of the compact block relay protocols
to incorporate the transmissions of the associated trans-
actions (see Figure 4). Namely, SimBlock did not
originally account for the delays introduced for the
transmission of transactions — these were shown to
have a significant impact on the performance of the
network [18].
9

(a) Cardano
(Advertisement-based)
Node A
Node B
block
inv
getdata
block
(c) Ethereum Classic
(Hybrid push)
Node A
Node B
block
if B ∈subset:
NewBlockMsg
else:
NewBlockHashesMsg
request block
send block
(b) Monero
(Direct push)
Node A
Node B
block
block
(d) Bitcoin
(Compact Blocks)
Node A
Node B
sendcmpct(1)
block
inv
getdata
cmpctblock
getblocktxn
blocktxn
Figure 4: Summary of the popular gossip protocols used in existing Nakamoto-style blockchains.
Network-layer attacks We further extended SimBlock to
capture a collection of realistic attacks stemming from
the network layer. For this purpose, we introduce a
number of adversarial nodes in our network that could
delay their block-propagation messages.
Memory and event timeline optimization In order to han-
dle tasks that may need to be removed from the timeline,
the original code kept a map between tasks and their
respective events in the timeline. When a task had to
be removed, the task’s event would be retrieved from
the map before being removed from both the timeline
and the map. In our simulator, we reduced the scope of
this map to only tasks that can be removed, i.e., block
generation tasks, effectively reducing its size by more
than 95%. We also optimized the implementation of the
priority queue to only include events that are unlikely
to be immediately removed from the queue.
Supported blockchains.
Our experiments supported the
following popular Nakamoto-style blockchains. To remove
any bias incurred by the various popularity of these
blockchains (e.g., Bitcoin has far more transactions than
Cardano), we consider a fixed block size of 800 KB; this
corresponds to the average block size of Bitcoin in 2022.
Unless otherwise specified, we only consider nodes that are
actively mining (except for Table 4 where we investigate
the impact of zero mining-power nodes). Therefore, our
evaluations emulate the realistic scenario where mining pools
enjoy dedicated networks between each other (although still
restricted to the maximum number of neighbors defined by
their respective protocols). We additionally evaluate a “high-
speed“ network connectivity option among mining pools to
capture the current setup used by Bitcoin.
Bitcoin. Bitcoin emerged as the first real-world deployment
of Nakamoto-style consensus. Blocks are generated with
a rate of one block every ten minutes on average. To
disseminate information among nodes, Bitcoin currently
relies on the so-called “compact blocks" mode [23] depicted
in subplot (d) of Figure 4. In this work, we focus on the
low-bandwidth mode of the compact block mechanism. Here,
blocks in this mode are sent in a compact format, by including
references to the confirmed transactions therein. As the
reference merely consists of transaction hashes, blocks are
compact in size.
Monero. Monero is one of the first altcoin forks of Bitcoin
that focused on providing a high degree of anonymity and
privacy to the users of the blockchain. Here, blocks are
propagated by nodes directly to their neighbors. This happens
irrespective of whether the recipient has received the block
in question in a previous interaction. In comparison to
advertisement-based propagation, this reduces the number
of total messages sent as well as the latency it takes a node
to receive a block for the first time. However, it comes at
the cost of nodes superfluously receiving the same blocks
multiple times, which can increase the total overhead in the
system. Although Monero also provides support for “compact
blocks” in the high-bandwidth mode, its adoption is not clear,
hence we focus on the default direct push mode in this paper.
Direct push is depicted in subplot (b) in Figure 4 in the
Appendix.
Cardano. Cardano mostly relies on an advertisement-based
push model to propagate transactions and blocks among
nodes (this was the initial gossip layer used in Bitcoin).
Here, upon the receipt of a fresh block, each node advertises
the block to all its outgoing neighbors by sending them
an inv message. This message advertises the knowledge
of a new block in the platform. When a node receives a
block advertisement of a new block for the first time, the
node explicitly asks to receive the block in question by
issuing a getdata message. Subplot (a) in Figure 4 depicts
the advertisement-based propagation mechanism.
Ethereum Classic.
To disseminate information among
nodes, Ethereum Classic uses a hybrid approach, combining
both aforementioned gossip protocols, to propagate freshly
mined blocks to its partaking nodes. First, it chooses a subset
of its neighbors, e.g., of size the square root of the number
of its neighbors (as defined in Ethereum), to whom it directly
pushes the block using a NewBlockMsg message. For the
10

103
104
105
n
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
 [s]
Bitcoin
Cardano
Ethereum Classic
Monero
(a) bδ against n.
103
104
105
n
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
 [s]
Bitcoin
Cardano
Ethereum Classic
Monero
(b) ∆against n.
Cryptocurrency
Function
Bitcoin
∆(n) = 0.1 · log(n) −0.04
bδ(n) = 0.04 · log(n) + 0.03
Cardano
∆(n) = 3.65 · log(n) −7.37
bδ(n) = 0.41 · log(n) + 1.3
Ethereum Classic
∆(n) = 2.6 · log(n) −8.71
bδ(n) = 0.42 · log(n) + 0.3
Monero
∆(n) = 1.18 · log(n) −2.24
bδ(n) = 0.43 · log(n) + 0.26
(c) Linear interpolation between δ, ∆(in
seconds), and log(n).
Figure 5: Impact of n on ∆and the average delay bδ (in the benign case) using various gossip protocols.
Block interval
Avg. block size
Max. block size
Gossip protocol
Bitcoin [5]
600s
1.7 MB
2 MB
Low-bandwidth CBR
Ethereum Classic [19]
13s
1.2 KB
30 Mgas
Hybrid push
Monero [20]
120s
80 KB
N.A.
Direct push
Cardano [21]
20s
31 KB
90 KB
Advertisement-based
Table 3: Summary of the main differences among the studied Nakamoto-style blockchains. The average blocksize was
retrieved from [22], the remaining parameters are derived from the respective documentation and codebase.
remaining neighbors, the node relies on advertisement-based
push to disseminate the block (cf. subplot (c) of Figure 4).
Table 3 summarizes the various differences between the
considered Nakamoto-style blockchains.
4.2. Delays in Large-Scale Blockchains
We now proceed to empirically evaluate the block
propagation delays in the benign setting (where there are
no network-layer attacks) when varying the number n of
nodes, the block size, and the gossip protocol. Here, we
emulate the propagation of 100 blocks in networks of size
n ∈[10, 500 000] for each of the deployment instances that
we consider i.e., Bitcoin, Ethereum Classic, Monero, and
Cardano.
Our results are summarized in Figure 5. When scaling
up the network, all considered blockchains exhibit a linear
increase in the delays on the semi-log plot in Figure 5,
hence confirming the logarithmic correlation between the
maximum delay and the network size n. Cardano, Monero,
and Ethereum Classic tend to have a similar scaling factor
for their mean delay bδ, although the slope of the maximal
latency exhibited by Cardano is steeper than the others. In
contrast, Bitcoin demonstrates significantly lower bδ and ∆,
with a correspondingly smaller scaling factor, mostly owing
to the reliance on compact blocks.
Based on our empirical result, we built a linear regression
between log(n) and bδ(n), ∆(n). To do so, we searched for
α and y0 such that y = α·x+y0 minimizes the mean square
error using the empirically measured data points. Our results
are listed in Figure 5c. Our results indicate that Bitcoin yields
the lowest maximum delays when compared to all other
investigated deployments. Notice that the low bandwidth
mode of compact blocks in Bitcoin behaves similarly3 to the
direct push protocol by Monero (both gossip protocols are
very similar albeit with different message sizes); equally, the
low bandwidth mode of compact blocks behaves similarly to
the advertisement-based gossip protocol of Cardano (both
protocols are very similar albeit with different message sizes).
Due to lack of space, we include additional results in
Appendix C. Our results suggest that the compact block relay
modes emerges as an attractive option to minimize delays
as the network grows in size (cf. Figures 5a - 5b).
Finally, we analyzed the impact of zero-power nodes, i.e.,
nodes that maintain a complete copy of the deployment’s
ledger but are not actively participating in generating
blocks in Table 4. Here, we do not explicitly enforce short
connections between validators such that validators constitute
the network’s core, but instead validators are distributed
throughout the entire network randomly.
The impact of zero-power nodes on the ∆for small values
of n is substantial—adding up to approximately 8 seconds
to the overall maximum latency witnessed in the system,
corresponding to an increase of 56% for Cardano, 77% for
Ethereum Classic, 13.5% for Monero, and 25% for Bitcoin.
On the other hand, for larger values of n, the increase of zero-
power nodes ensures an overall better network connectivity
reducing the ∆by 4.86s in Cardano and 0.44s in Ethereum
Classic. For Monero and Bitcoin, increasing the number of
zero-power nodes up to 100 000 nodes however results in
an increase of up 78% and 50%, respectively, in ∆.
3. The slope of direct push is 10 times larger than that witnessed by
compact blocks as shown in Figure 5c.
11

Number of
Number of mining nodes n
Zero-power nodes
200
500
1000
2000
5000
10 000
100 000
500 000
Bitcoin
5000
0.84s
1.01s
1.12s
1.20s
1.17s
1.14s
1.13s
1.24s
100 000
1.07s
1.34s
1.47s
1.56s
1.73s
1.83s
1.86s
1.86s
Cardano
5000
13.86s
15.57s
17.10s
18.55s
20.54s
22.78s
26.60s
31.43s
100 000
21.82s
16.64s
16.55s
17.73s
19.11s
20.42s
22.93s
26.33s
Ethereum
5000
7.79s
9.39s
10.73s
11.66s
13.01s
14.32s
17.03s
21.32s
Classic
100 000
13.83s
10.14s
11.08s
12.70s
14.40s
16.04s
18.07s
20.88s
Monero
5000
8.86s
10.88s
11.69s
11.25s
10.28s
10.61s
10.45s
11.59s
100 000
10.06s
10.30s
12.31s
14.31s
16.30s
18.07s
18.61s
18.54s
Table 4: Impact of zero-power nodes on ∆in seconds.
103
104
105
n
0
5
10
15
20
25
 [s]
Bitcoin
Cardano
Ethereum Classic
Monero
Figure 6: Impact of dedicated high-speed networks among
miners on ∆.
δmax
Adversarial power ρmax
adv
Number of validators nval
101
103
106
109
Bitcoin
0 s (no network attacks)
0.5000 0.4999 0.4997 0.4996
600 s (∼1 delayed block)
0.3819 0.3819 0.3817 0.3816
3000 s (∼5 delayed blocks) 0.1615 0.1615 0.1614 0.1614
1Gb/s Dedicated network
0.5000 0.4999 0.4998 0.4997
Monero
0 s (no network attacks)
0.4995 0.4938 0.4854 0.4769
120 s (∼1 delayed block)
0.3815 0.3768 0.3698 0.3630
600 s (∼5 delayed blocks)
0.1614 0.1603 0.1586 0.1570
1Gb/s Dedicated network
0.4999 0.4973 0.4934 0.4897
Cardano
0 s (no network attacks)
0.4935 0.3935 0.2820 0.2135
20 s (∼1 delayed block)
0.3765 0.3010 0.2251 0.1776
100 s (∼5 delayed blocks)
0.1602 0.1417 0.1206 0.1049
1Gb/s Dedicated network
0.5000 0.4344 0.3416 0.2734
Ethereum
Classic
0 s (no network attacks)
0.5000 0.4155 0.2896 0.2142
13 s (∼1 delayed block)
0.4042 0.3166 0.2302 0.1782
65 s (∼5 delayed blocks)
0.1668 0.1456 0.1222 0.1051
1Gb/s Dedicated network
0.5000 0.4560 0.3703 0.3026
Table 5: Maximum adversarial power that can be tolerated
in real-world deployments w.r.t. the number of nodes.
5. Tradeoffs in Real-World Deployments
We now turn to analyzing the impact of the network
scale on the security of Nakamoto-style deployments.
5.1. Fraction of Adversarial Power
We start by investigating the impact of the network size
on the fraction of adversarial power that can be tolerated.
As mentioned in Section 2.3, prior work commonly assumes
that the tolerated adversarial power is bounded by a fixed
value, e.g., ρmax
adv < 1
3 or ρmax
adv < 1
2. However, as shown in
Equation (20), the maximum adversarial power depends on
the number of nodes n, the block frequency λ, and the delay
∆.
Notice that, in real-world settings, the adversary is able
to carry out network-layer attacks [3], [4] to manipulate the
flow of information or even eclipse some nodes. To capture
this behavior, we introduce the term δmax for the upper
bound on the (adversarially induced) delay that is caused by
such attacks. In other words, we approximate ∆(n) with
∆(n, δmax) = (α · log(n) + y0)
|
{z
}
cf. Figure 5c
+δmax
(30)
For instance, to capture the network attacks due to
Gervais et al. [4] and Heilman et al. [3], δmax can be set to
50 mins.4
In Table 5, we report the values of ρmax
adv for real-world
deployments of Nakamoto-style blockchains, namely for
Bitcoin, Monero, Cardano, and Ethereum Classic, where we
estimated ρmax
adv by plugging the empirical block propagation
times we measured for each deployment (cf. Figure 5c) into
Equation (24).
Our results confirm that the maximum adversarial power
that can be tolerated is strongly influenced by the scale of
the network as well as by network-layer attacks. For instance,
while Ethereum Classic with 10 validators can tolerate ρmax
adv
of 50.0%, this bound decreases to 29.0% for networks
with 1 000 000 validators without any active (network-layer)
attack; here, if an attacker is able to manipulate information
at the network layer and selectively delay single blocks, the
bound decreases to 12.2%. A similar behavior can be seen
for Cardano. In contrast, the tolerated adversarial power in
Bitcoin and Monero appears to be only mildly affected by
the network size (see Figure 5). This phenomenon shows that
the choice of the gossip protocol is crucial for the security
of the system.
Impact of Dedicated High-Speed Networks.
We now
evaluate the impact of having a dedicated high-speed network
between miners, similar to the current setup used by mining
pools, on the maximum fraction of adversarial power that
can be tolerated. To this end, we equip each pool with a
1Gb/s download/upload network with 10 ms latency. We
empirically evaluate the ∆for all studied blockchains in
this setting and plot the corresponding results in Figure 6.
Same as before, we also compute the regression of ∆with
4. This corresponds to delaying approximately 5 consecutive blocks with
a success rate of 0.4 [4].
12

102
104
106
nval
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Pr [Esec[nval]]
p∗= 0.1615
p∗= 0.162
p∗= 0.17
(a) The case of Bitcoin.
102
104
106
nval
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Pr [Esec[nval]]
p∗= 0.12
p∗= 0.125
p∗= 0.13
(b) The case of Cardano.
102
104
106
nval
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Pr [Esec[nval]]
p∗= 0.157
p∗= 0.158
p∗= 0.159
(c) The case of Monero.
102
104
106
nval
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Pr [Esec[nval]]
p∗= 0.12
p∗= 0.125
p∗= 0.13
(d) The case of Ethereum Classic.
Figure 7: Evaluating the probability Pr [Esec[nval, nZP]] that the blockchain
provides persistence and liveness depending on the network’s size. Here, we
assume an adversary that can selectively delay at most 5 consecutive blocks
among a fraction of nodes.
102
104
106
nval
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Pr [Esec[nval]]
Bitcoin
Monero
Cardano
EthereumClassic
(a) The case of p∗= 0.13.
102
104
106
nval
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Pr [Esec[nval]]
Bitcoin
Monero
Cardano
EthereumClassic
(b) The case of p∗= 0.16.
Figure
8:
Evaluating
Pr [Esec[nval, nZP]]
for
Bitcoin,
Monero,
Cardano,
and
Ethereum
Classic when p∗= 0.13 and 0.16.
respect to log(n) analogously to Figure 5c. As expected,
a dedicated high-speed network significantly reduces the
scaling factor of the ∆in terms of log(n), up to 20%
for Bitcoin, 30% for Cardano, 45% for Ethereum classic,
and 54% for Monero. Bitcoin exhibits the smallest latency
reduction due to the inherently low latency, resulting in the
constant block verification time becoming the predominant
contributor to the propagation delay instead of the network
latency.
While the improvement in ∆has a positive impact
on security, it does not completely compensate for the
impact of the scale of the network. Namely, for the same
number of n, Bitcoin (resp. Cardano, Ethereum Classic,
Monero) can tolerate only up to 0.01% (resp. 1.3%, 6.01%,
8.84%) additional adversarial power ρmax
adv
as shown in
Table 5. For instance, in Cardano and Ethereum classic, even
when assuming a high-speed dedicated network, when the
number of validator n increases to 1 000 000, the maximum
adversarial power that can be tolerated is only 34.16%, and
37.03% respectively. Note that when the number of miners
(aka mining pools) is small (e.g., 10), this fraction is much
higher—even when the mining pools do not use a high-
speed dedicated network and merely use the underlying
gossip layer.
5.2. Scale vs Security
In what follows, we evaluate the impact of the network
size on Pr [Esec[nval]], the probability that the actually held
adversarial power ρadv is below the maximum tolerated
threshold ρmax
adv
(i.e., the trust assumption that security
guarantees are met).
For our analysis, we consider the case where δmax is
bounded by the time to selectively delay the propagation
of up to 5 consecutive blocks [3], [4]. We then rely on
our empirical measurements to compute the overall delay
∆(n, δmax) (cf. Equation (30)) and plug the resulting value
in Equation (19) to derive the corresponding value for
Pr [Esec[nval]]. In particular, we first computed g(n) =
⌊ρmax
adv · nval⌋as defined by Equation (19) and subsequently
determined the security probability as Pr [Esec[nval]] =
F(g(n); n, p∗) using the cumulative distribution function
F(k; n, p) of the binomial distribution.5
5. For instance, to derive the plot for p∗= 0.17 from Figure 7a, we
computed
g(n) =
n ·

Γ + 1 + e
2Γ
−
s Γ + 1 + e
2Γ
2
−1
Γ



(31)
13

Measurement (
max=600s) 
Measurement (
max=3000s) 
Upper bound (theoretical, p * =0.3)
Upper bound (theoretical, p * =0.4)
102
103
104
105
106
n
0
200
400
600
800
1000
 [s]
(a) The case of Bitcoin.
102
103
104
105
106
n
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
 [s]
(b) The case of Cardano.
102
103
104
105
106
n
0
200
400
600
800
1000
 [s]
(c) The case of Monero.
102
103
104
105
106
n
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
 [s]
(d) The case of Ethereum Classic.
Figure 9: Comparing analytical bounds (dashed lines) and empirical measurements (solid lines) obtained for ∆. Here, p∗
denotes the probability for a validator being corrupted and with an adversary being present, who controls 15% of the
network’s nodes and induces delays on 50% of his connections of each ntdelay seconds (cf. Section 5.2).
Our results are depicted in Figure 7 and Figure 8. We
generally observe that an increase in the number of validators
nval increases the probability of the system being secure
until a turnaround value is reached. This turnaround value
depends on several parameters:
• the probability p∗for a validator being corrupted,
• the maximum delay ∆,
• the block rate λ.
Our results show that a smaller corruption probability p∗
results in higher turnaround values for nval. We justify this
behavior by observing that it becomes harder for the attacker
to gain an amount of power exceeding ρmax
adv as corrupting
individual validators gets more difficult. Looking at the the
plot for p∗= 0.157 in case of Monero, the turnaround point
is even outside of the plotted range in Figure 7c. On the other
hand, if we evaluate a high p∗≥0.16 in the case of Bitcoin,
the turning point is reached already for n ≤10 nodes, and
we do not observe an increase in security in Figure 7a
since the turning point is for n ≤10 (which is outside the
plotted range). We finally note that for comparable values
of p∗, Bitcoin and Monero consistently presents a higher
turnaround point compared to Cardano and Ethereum Classic
(cf. Figure 8a). Further, Bitcoin provides a higher turnaround
using Γ =
1
600 · ∆(n, δmax) with ∆(n, δmax) = (0.1 · log(n) −0.04) +
300 (cf. Equation (20), Equation (30), and Figure 5c). Then, we evaluated
F(g(n); n, 0.17) over n ∈[10, 107].
point compared to Monero (cf. Figure 8b). These results
confirm that Bitcoin and Monero scale better with respect to
the network size compared to Cardano and Ethereum Classic
(because of the delays incurred by their respective gossip
protocols).
In the next set of experiments we compare the analytical
upper bound on the maximum delay ∆with empirically
measured delays in common deployments. The results are
shown in Figure 9. To this end, we determine the maximum
delay ∆max fulfilling the condition in Equation (19), as
follows:
∆max := max{∆∈R | Pr [Esec[nval, nZP]] ≥0.9}
Here, in our experiments we assume that the adversary
can compromise each node with probability 15% to execute
network attacks. Further, each such malicious node can delay
its messages to a fraction of 50% of its connected neighbors
by at most 10 and 50 minutes respectively. We include
the evaluation results pertaining to various network attack
strategies in Appendix C.
We observe that Bitcoin and Monero are only mildly
affected by network delays thanks to their usage of compact
blocks and direct push, which makes them robust against our
strongest adversaries of p∗= 0.4 for smaller networks (n ≤
300 000), and p∗= 0.3 for larger networks (n > 300 000).
On the other hand, we observe that Cardano’s advertisement-
based protocol is very susceptible to network delays: after
14

selecting an inv message to retrieve the block from, nodes
wait for a timeout of 10 minutes before requesting the block
from another node. Therefore, even for a network delay of
600s with n = 200, Cardano is not resilient to the p∗= 0.4
adversary and is further susceptible to the p∗= 0.3 adversary
when the network delay increases to 50 minutes. Lastly, we
notice that while Ethereum Classic’s hybrid push provides
good performance for small networks, security degrades as
n grows, making it similarly susceptible to the p∗= 0.4
and p∗= 0.3 adversaries when n ≥5000 for a delay of 10
minutes and 50 minutes respectively.
6. Related Work
The honest-majority assumption, initially formulated as
an intuitive requirement for the security of Bitcoin, has
been gradually refined in a series of theoretical works
seeking to precisely capture the impact of network delays
on consistency [6]–[10], leading to more expressive (and
tighter) security conditions for Nakamoto-style blockchains
(see Table 2 for a detailed comparison).
Independently from these models, a number of contri-
butions reported practical attacks by large-scale adversaries
on Nakamoto-style deployments [3] and even by resource-
constrained adversaries [4]. For instance, in [24], it was
shown that routing attacks can be leveraged to isolate a set
of nodes and partition the network or to also delay the block
propagation in Bitcoin. These attacks allow the adversary to
arbitrarily delay the propagation of blocks and transactions
in the network by dozens of minutes. In this work, we show
that such attacks could easily violate the consistency bounds
in a number of existing blockchain deployments.
Gervais et al. [25] investigated the security and perfor-
mance of PoW blockchains with respect to various consensus
and network parameters. More precisely, they devised optimal
strategies for double-spending and selfish mining attacks as
a means to quantify robustness against these attacks with
respect to the attained overall performance.
Zhang et al. [18] investigated tradeoffs between security
and performance exhibited by the compact block relay
gossip protocol [23]. One interesting finding is that fresh
transactions, i.e., transactions that are already incorporated
in a block but have not been already received by other nodes,
increase the effective delay it takes to propagate a newly-
mined block in the network (and therefore reduce the overall
performance).
Finally, a series of contributions [26]–[28] have inves-
tigated the security of the committee selection in (non-
Nakamoto-style) proof-of-stake blockchains. In this vein,
Gazi et al. [26] proposed a novel committee-selection scheme
that leverages specific stake distributions to improve the
tradeoff between security and committee size—here, security
means that the fraction of corrupted validators in each
committee should not be “too far” from the overall adversarial
power. In particular, all security analyses of committee-
based protocols assume that the overall adversarial power is
below ρadv. In contrast, our work introduces an alternative
probabilistic corruption model capturing the intuition that
controlling ρadv·n validators becomes harder (i.e., less likely)
as n grows.
7. Concluding Remarks
In this work, we investigated how the network scale (i.e.,
the number of nodes n) affects the security of Nakamoto-
style blockchains in real-world deployments. We specifically
analyzed, both theoretically and empirically, how increasing
decentralization (i.e., larger n) can result in higher delays
(∆) and higher resilience to Byzantine validators (ρmax
adv ).
By establishing precise relations between n, ∆and ρmax
adv ,
we believe that our results lay clear foundations to better
explore security vs performance vs decentralization tradeoffs
in Nakamoto-style blockchain deployments.
From an analytical perspective, we observe that while ∆
only grows logarithmically in n, the probability of violating
the honest-majority assumption decreases exponentially in n.
This suggests that, at least asymptotically, decentralization
almost always improves security.
Our empirical results show however that in practice,
network delays can increase dramatically with n depending
on the gossip protocol in use. For instance, Nakamoto-style
deployments using low-bandwidth CBR and direct push
(i.e., Bitcoin and Monero) appear to be considerably more
robust than those relying on hybrid-push and advertisement-
based gossip protocols (Ethereum Classic and Cardano)
(cf. Figure 5c and Figure 9). In particular, our results indicate
that the choice of the gossip protocol is crucial: For instance,
Table 5 shows that both Cardano and Ethereum Classic are
vulnerable to an adversary that controls more than 29% of
the total network’s power in networks comprising a million
nodes. On the contrary, due to their gossip protocols, Bitcoin
as well as Monero provide high security, tolerating a 47%,
resp. 49% adversary, even in larger networks of up 109
nodes.
Our preliminary results also indicate that the compact
block propagation mode can promise some robustness in spite
of a network adversary that can compromise a fraction of
the underlying network. We therefore hope that our findings
motivate further research in the area.
Acknowledgment
This
work
has
been
partially
funded
by
the
Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research
Foundation)—EXC 2092 (CASA) 39078197—and the
European Union (HORIZON-JU-SNS-2022 NANCY project
No 101096456 and HORIZON-CL4-2022 Programming
Platform for Intelligent Collaborative Deployments over Het-
erogeneous Edge-IoT Environments project No 101093069).
The views and opinions expressed are those of the authors
only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European
Union or the European Research Council Executive Agency.
Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can
be held responsible for them.
15

References
[1]
D. Matsuoka, E. Lazzarin, R. Hackett, and S. Zinn. (2023)
2023 State of Crypto Report: introducing the State of Crypto
Index. [Online]. Available: https://a16zcrypto.com/content/article/
state-of-crypto-report-2023/
[2]
E. Foundation. (2023) Ethereum-powered tools and services. [Online].
Available: https://ethereum.org/en/dapps/#what-are-dapps
[3]
E. Heilman, A. Kendler, A. Zohar, and S. Goldberg, “Eclipse
attacks on bitcoin’s peer-to-peer network,” in 24th USENIX Security
Symposium, USENIX Security 15, Washington, D.C., USA, August
12-14, 2015, J. Jung and T. Holz, Eds.
USENIX Association, 2015,
pp. 129–144. [Online]. Available: https://www.usenix.org/conference/
usenixsecurity15/technical-sessions/presentation/heilman
[4]
A. Gervais, H. Ritzdorf, G. O. Karame, and S. Capkun, “Tampering
with the delivery of blocks and transactions in bitcoin,” in
Proceedings of the 22nd ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and
Communications Security, Denver, CO, USA, October 12-16, 2015,
I. Ray, N. Li, and C. Kruegel, Eds.
ACM, 2015, pp. 692–705.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/2810103.2813655
[5]
S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,” May
2009. [Online]. Available: http://www.bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
[6]
J. A. Garay, A. Kiayias, and N. Leonardos, “The bitcoin backbone
protocol: Analysis and applications,” in Advances in Cryptology
- EUROCRYPT 2015 - 34th Annual International Conference on
the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques, Sofia,
Bulgaria, April 26-30, 2015, Proceedings, Part II, ser. Lecture
Notes in Computer Science, E. Oswald and M. Fischlin, Eds.,
vol. 9057.
Springer, 2015, pp. 281–310. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-46803-6_10
[7]
L. Kiffer, R. Rajaraman, and A. Shelat, “A better method to analyze
blockchain consistency,” IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch., p. 601, 2022.
[Online]. Available: https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/601
[8]
J. Zhao, J. Tang, Z. Li, H. Wang, K. Lam, and K. Xue, “An analysis
of blockchain consistency in asynchronous networks: Deriving a
neat bound,” in 40th IEEE International Conference on Distributed
Computing Systems, ICDCS 2020, Singapore, November 29 -
December 1, 2020.
IEEE, 2020, pp. 179–189. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICDCS47774.2020.00039
[9]
D. Guo and L. Ren, “Bitcoin’s latency-security analysis made
simple,” CoRR, vol. abs/2203.06357, 2022. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2203.06357
[10] A. Dembo, S. Kannan, E. N. Tas, D. Tse, P. Viswanath, X. Wang, and
O. Zeitouni, “Everything is a race and nakamoto always wins,” in CCS
’20: 2020 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications
Security, Virtual Event, USA, November 9-13, 2020, J. Ligatti, X. Ou,
J. Katz, and G. Vigna, Eds.
ACM, 2020, pp. 859–878. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3372297.3417290
[11] R. Pass, L. Seeman, and A. Shelat, “Analysis of the blockchain
protocol in asynchronous networks,” in Advances in Cryptology
- EUROCRYPT 2017 - 36th Annual International Conference
on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques,
Paris, France, April 30 - May 4, 2017, Proceedings, Part II,
ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, J. Coron and J. B.
Nielsen, Eds., vol. 10211, 2017, pp. 643–673. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-56614-6_22
[12] F. Chung and L. Lu, “The diameter of sparse random graphs,”
Advances in Applied Mathematics, vol. 26, no. 4, pp. 257–279, 2001.
[Online]. Available: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0196885801907201
[13] C. Gentry, S. Halevi, H. Krawczyk, B. Magri, J. B. Nielsen, T. Rabin,
and S. Yakoubov, “YOSO: you only speak once - secure MPC with
stateless ephemeral roles,” in Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO
2021 - 41st Annual International Cryptology Conference, CRYPTO
2021, Virtual Event, August 16-20, 2021, Proceedings, Part II, ser.
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, T. Malkin and C. Peikert,
Eds., vol. 12826.
Springer, 2021, pp. 64–93. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84245-1_3
[14] Y. Aoki, K. Otsuki, T. Kaneko, R. Banno, and K. Shudo,
“Simblock: A blockchain network simulator,” in IEEE INFOCOM
2019 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications Workshops,
INFOCOM Workshops 2019, Paris, France, April 29 - May
2,
2019.
IEEE,
2019,
pp.
325–329.
[Online].
Available:
https://doi.org/10.1109/INFCOMW.2019.8845253
[15] C. Decker and R. Wattenhofer, “Information propagation in the
bitcoin network,” in 13th IEEE International Conference on
Peer-to-Peer Computing, IEEE P2P 2013, Trento, Italy, September
9-11, 2013, Proceedings.
IEEE, 2013, pp. 1–10. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1109/P2P.2013.6688704
[16] T. Neudecker, P. Andelfinger, and H. Hartenstein, “Timing analysis
for inferring the topology of the bitcoin peer-to-peer network,” in
Proceedings of the 13th IEEE International Conference on Advanced
and Trusted Computing (ATC), July 2016.
[17] Bitnodes.
Reachable
bitcoin
nodes.
[Online].
Available:
https://bitnodes.io/
[18] R. Zhang, D. Zhang, Q. Wang, S. Wu, J. Xie, and B. Preneel,
“Nc-max: Breaking the security-performance tradeoff in nakamoto
consensus,” in 29th Annual Network and Distributed System
Security Symposium, NDSS 2022, San Diego, California, USA,
April 24-28, 2022.
The Internet Society, 2022. [Online]. Available:
https://www.ndss-symposium.org/ndss-paper/auto-draft-255/
[19] Ethereum Classic, 2023, https://ethereumclassic.org/.
[20] Monero, 2023, https://www.getmonero.org.
[21] Cardano, 2023, https://cardano.org.
[22] Cryptocurrency statistics, 2023, https://bitinfocharts.com.
[23] M. Corallo, BIP-152 - Compact Block Relay, 2016, https://github.com/
bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0152.mediawiki.
[24] M. Apostolaki, A. Zohar, and L. Vanbever, “Hijacking bitcoin:
Routing attacks on cryptocurrencies,” in 2017 IEEE Symposium on
Security and Privacy, SP 2017, San Jose, CA, USA, May 22-26, 2017.
IEEE Computer Society, 2017, pp. 375–392. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1109/SP.2017.29
[25] A. Gervais, G. O. Karame, K. Wüst, V. Glykantzis, H. Ritzdorf,
and S. Capkun, “On the security and performance of proof of work
blockchains,” in Proceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC Conference
on Computer and Communications Security, Vienna, Austria, October
24-28, 2016, E. R. Weippl, S. Katzenbeisser, C. Kruegel, A. C. Myers,
and S. Halevi, Eds.
ACM, 2016, pp. 3–16. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/2976749.2978341
[26] P. Gazi, A. Kiayias, and A. Russell, “Fait accompli committee
selection: Improving the size-security tradeoff of stake-based
committees,” IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch., p. 1273, 2023. [Online].
Available: https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1273
[27] A. Benhaim, B. H. Falk, and G. Tsoukalas, “Scaling blockchains:
Can elected committees help?” CoRR, vol. abs/2110.08673, 2021.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2110.08673
[28] B. David, B. Magri, C. Matt, J. B. Nielsen, and D. Tschudi, “Gearbox:
Optimal-size shard committees by leveraging the safety-liveness
dichotomy,” in Proceedings of the 2022 ACM SIGSAC Conference on
Computer and Communications Security, CCS 2022, Los Angeles,
CA, USA, November 7-11, 2022, H. Yin, A. Stavrou, C. Cremers,
and E. Shi, Eds.
ACM, 2022, pp. 683–696. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3548606.3559375
[29] Y. Shahsavari, K. Zhang, and C. Talhi, “A theoretical model for block
propagation analysis in bitcoin network,” IEEE Trans. Engineering
Management, vol. 69, no. 4, pp. 1459–1476, 2022. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1109/TEM.2020.2989170
[30] A. Cruciani and F. Pasquale, “Dynamic graph models inspired by the
bitcoin network-formation process,” in 24th International Conference
on Distributed Computing and Networking, ICDCN 2023, Kharagpur,
India, January 4-7, 2023.
ACM, 2023, pp. 125–134. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3571306.3571398
16

[31] L. Becchetti, A. E. F. Clementi, E. Natale, F. Pasquale, and
L. Trevisan, “Finding a bounded-degree expander inside a dense
one,” in Proceedings of the 2020 ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete
Algorithms, SODA 2020, Salt Lake City, UT, USA, January 5-8, 2020,
S. Chawla, Ed.
SIAM, 2020, pp. 1320–1336. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1137/1.9781611975994.80
Appendix A.
Proof of Theorem 2
In Nakamoto-style blockchains, nodes randomly join
and leave the network and might also change the set of
peers over time. That is, the structure of the network results
from a random process and the blockchain network can
be considered as a random graph [29]–[31]. Moreover,
we assume that each newly added node establishes up to
dout outgoing connections to a set of nodes, where dout is
independent of the number of nodes. This is conforming
with existing popular Nakamoto-style deployments, such as
Bitcoin and Ethereum 1.0.
The probability p that a fixed node is connected to
an arbitrary other node is ≈dout
n . A consequence is that
n · p ≈dout, being a constant > 1.
For the proof, we make use of the following result about
the diameter of random graph:
Theorem 5 ( [12, Theorem 6]). Consider a random graph,
i.e., a randomly generated graph, of n nodes in which a
pair of vertices appears as an edge with probability p. Let
D denote the diameter of the graph, i.e., the length of the
longest shortest path in the graph. Suppose that n·p ≥c > 1
for some constant c. Then, we have that:
D
≥
(1 + o(1)) log(n)
log(n · p) and
D
≤
log(n)
log(n · p) + 2(10c/(√c −1)2 + 1)
c −log(2c)
log(n)
log(n · p) + 1.
The following corollary is an immediate consequence of
Theorem 5.
Corollary 2. Consider the setting explained in Theorem 5.
If n · p is constant, it follows that:
D ∈Θ(log(n)).
(32)
Then, we can apply Theorem 5 and Corollary 2 to derive
D ∈Θ(log(n)).
(33)
Moreover, the maximum delay ∆is given by the time
required for sending a 1-hop-message times the maximum
number of hops between any two nodes. As the latter is the
value D, it follows that
∆= const · D ∈const · Θ(log(n)) = Θ(log(n)).
(34)
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Propagation time [ms]
0.0000
0.0005
0.0010
0.0015
0.0020
PDF
Our simulation
KASTEL bitcoin monitoring data
Figure 10: Comparison of the block arrival time in our envi-
ronment and based on the measured data from KASTEL [16].
Appendix B.
Parameter Calibration
To ensure a realistic setup of the simulator, we calibrated
the network’s bandwidth and latency in such a way that it
yields comparable block propagation times and stale block
rate when compared to the KASTEL dataset [15], [16].
The KASTEL dataset contains real-world measurements
derived from the Bitcoin network, The measurements include
the distribution of inv messages’ arrival times received by a
monitoring node for each block sent in the network. This
latter node was connected to 7000-9000 nodes in the Bitcoin
network. Delays between a block’s first and last received
inv messages were measured and counted in intervals of one
millisecond each. In our work, we relied on the KASTEL
datasets measured between January and October 2022 when
calibrating our simulator.
To calibrate the parameters used in our simulator, we run
a grid search to evaluate various parameter configurations
and compare our simulator’s output against the measured
dataset. The overall aim of our grid search is to evaluate our
simulator using various parameter combinations to yield a
configuration that mimics the overall performance measured
by the KASTEL dataset. To measure the conformity between
our simulator’s output and the real-world data, we compute
the Mean Squared Error (MSE) over the distribution of
propagation times. By minimizing the MSE score, we
calibrate our simulator to match the behavior of the real-
world Bitcoin blockchain. The parameters that we configured
in our grid search are as follows:
Upload bandwith The upload bandwidth is a matrix that
determines the distribution of upload bandwidth from
nodes in one region to nodes in another region. The
unit of this parameter is bits per seconds.
Download bandwith Similar to the upload bandwidth,
the download bandwidth denotes the region-wise
distribution of nodes’ download speed.
Latency The latency is also defined as a matrix for latencies
between pairs of regions and is defined in the unit of
milliseconds.
Figure 10 depicts the probability density function (PDF)
derived from the KASTEL dataset [16] (in red) and the
PDF derived from our simulator (in blue). As can be seen,
17

103
104
105
n
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
 [s]
Bitcoin - ntdelay = 600s 
Cardano - ntdelay = 600s 
Ethereum Classic - ntdelay = 600s 
Monero - ntdelay = 600s 
(a) ∆(n) for p∗= 0.15,
pnt
con = 0.1
103
104
105
n
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
 [s]
(b) ∆(n) for p∗= 0.15,
pnt
con = 0.5
103
104
105
n
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
 [s]
(c) ∆(n) for p∗= 0.3,
pnt
con = 0.1
103
104
105
n
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
 [s]
(d) ∆(n) for p∗= 0.3,
pnt
con = 0.5
Figure 11: Impact of network-layer attacks on ∆assuming a uniform distribution of block generation resources.
Latency [ms]
NA
EU
SA
AS
AP
JAP
AUS
NA
24
70
79
115
140
79
122
EU
70
12
161
129
97
152
140
SA
79
128
30
195
207
176
201
AP
122
129
195
24
54
24
129
AS
122
97
207
54
36
42
85
JAP
103
152
176
48
42
18
183
AUS
134
158
201
128
85
192
30
Table 6: Latency between the origin region (rows) and the
target region (columns) of 2 nodes, in milliseconds
Region:
NA
EU
SA
AS
AP
JAP
AUS
Upload [MB/s]:
6.8
4.8
2.7
4.8
13.7
6.8
2.4
Table 7: Maximum upload throughput of each region in
MB/s
our results follow a similar distribution, shifted to the right.
When comparing the mean propagation delay, our simulator
yields 0.704 seconds, while the collected dataset compound
to 0.783 seconds. The main rational behind the shifted PDF
is due to the starting point of the measurements: whereas
we are able to know the exact time when a block is mined
and when it is received by the different nodes, the dataset
collected by [16] can only setup the initial time to be the time
when they receive the first inv for a given block. However,
we stress that both PDFs show a similar shape for the block
propagation.
The results of our calibration on latency and throughput
are depicted in Table 6 and Table 7 respectively. The regions
considered are North America, Europe, South America, Asia
South, Asia Pacific, Japan, and Austria.
Appendix C.
Impact of Gossip Protocols
We now evaluate in details the impact of the gossip
layer on the measured delays. To do so, we consider a
Bitcoin deployment and vary the gossip protocol to one of
the following: advertisement-based, direct push, and hybrid
push block propagation as well as compact blocks in low-
bandwidth mode. In our implementation, we consider an
adversary that can compromise nodes with probability p∗,
such that on average p∗· n are adversarially corrupted to
execute network attacks. Each such malicious node delays
messages to a fraction pnt
con of its neighbors by artificially
replying after ntdelay seconds. We vary each parameter
as follow: p∗∈{15%, 30%}, pnt
con ∈{10%, 50%}, and
ntdelay ∈{10m}, forming 4 distinct parameter combinations
to test the impact of an attack on the network’s delay and
the resilience of the different gossip protocols to attacks.
Figure 11a shows that the advertisement-based gossip
protocol of Cardano is sensitive even to the weakest form
(small values of p∗and pnt
con) of network-layer attacks,
increasing the ∆to 490s with ntdelay = 10m for small values
of n. When the network size increases, the ∆increases to
580s, which correspond to an increase of 20% in latency. The
large ∆measured even for small values of n is mostly due to
the fact that nodes that receive inv messages from adversarial
nodes will need to wait at least min{ntdelay, 1200} to either
receive the block, or trigger a timeout and request the block
from another node [4].
Contrary to the advertisement-based protocol that show-
case high sensitivity to network-layer attacks, the direct
push and low-bandwidth compact blocks mechanisms of
Monero and Bitcoin seem to offer better robustness. This
is due to the fact that nodes that are connected to at least
one honest node will receive the block through a direct
push path. In such a case, the network delay’s impact is
limited, hence the relatively small difference in performance,
as depicted in Figures 11a and 11c, with the ∆of 53s,
much smaller than the delays incurred by the other two
gossip protocols. Nonetheless, if some honest nodes are
connected only to malicious nodes (cf. Figures 11b and 11d),
the delays witnessed by both the direct push and compact
blocks mechanism considerably increase up to 600s.
Finally, the hybrid push protocol seems to establish
a tradeoff between advertisement-based and the direct
push mode. While this gossip protocol achieves decent
performance for most parameters when n ≤103, the
performance degrades quickly when the network grows. In
the case of p∗= 0.15 and pnt
con = 0.5 shown in Figure 11b
when n = 2000, ∆increases to 371s for ntdelay = 600s,
and when increasing n to 105, ∆reaches 588s.
Overall, our findings in the adversarial setting confirm
our intuition that advertisement-based generally exhibits the
highest ∆, whereas direct push and the low bandwidth mode
of compact blocks demonstrates a high level of consistency,
with only a decline in performance in the worst cases
18

(p∗= 0.3, pnt
con ≥0.5). These findings suggest that direct
push and the low bandwidth mode of compact blocks may be
more reliable when taking network adversaries into account.
Appendix D.
Meta-Review
The following meta-review was prepared by the program
committee for the 2024 IEEE Symposium on Security and
Privacy (S&P) as part of the review process as detailed in
the call for papers.
D.1. Summary
This paper extends models of Nakamoto-style consensus
to explicitly consider the likelihood of compromise of
miners. The paper uses this more in-depth model to show
that, contrary to prior results, smaller networks are not
always more secure. Specifically, networks become more
secure as they grow, until they become too large for their
gossip protocol to transmit blocks fast enough, beyond
which point their security begins to degrade. The paper
investigates the relative impacts of gossip protocols of various
practical deployments, and shows that the choice makes a
big difference.
D.2. Scientific Contributions
• Independent Confirmation of Important Results with
Limited Prior Research
• Provides a Valuable Step Forward in an Established
Field
D.3. Reasons for Acceptance
1) The paper combines analytical and empirical methods to
better understand the impacts of sub-protocols (e.g., the
gossip network) and network size on network security.
2) This paper provides a valuable step toward building
more accurate models of the security of Nakamoto
consensus.
3) A key takeaway from the paper is understanding the
differences in behavior wrt latency and number of
nodes for different protocols that all rely on Nakamoto
consensus (or variants) but with potentially different
P2P networks.
4) Much of the paper is well-written and easy to follow.
19

