Multi-Stage Group Key Distribution and PAKEs:
Securing Zoom Groups against Malicious Servers without New Security Elements
Cas Cremers
CISPA Helmholtz Center for
Information Security
Saarbr¨ucken, Germany
cremers@cispa.de
Eyal Ronen
Tel Aviv University
Tel Aviv, Israel
er@eyalro.net
Mang Zhao
CISPA Helmholtz Center for
Information Security
Saarbr¨ucken, Germany
mang.zhao@cispa.de
Abstract—Video conferencing apps like Zoom have hundreds
of millions of daily users, making them a high-value target for
surveillance and subversion. While such apps claim to achieve
some forms of end-to-end encryption, they usually assume an
incorruptible server that is able to identify and authenticate all
the parties in a meeting. Concretely this means that, e.g., even
when using the “end-to-end encrypted” setting, malicious Zoom
servers could eavesdrop or impersonate in arbitrary groups.
In this work, we show how security against malicious servers
can be improved by changing the way in which such protocols
use passwords (known as passcodes in Zoom) and integrating
a password-authenticated key exchange (PAKE) protocol.
To formally prove that our approach achieves its goals, we
formalize a class of cryptographic protocols suitable for this
setting, and define a basic security notion for them, in which
group security can be achieved assuming the server is trusted
to correctly authorize the group members. We prove that Zoom
indeed meets this notion. We then propose a stronger security
notion that can provide security against malicious servers, and
propose a transformation that can achieve this notion. We show
how we can apply our transformation to Zoom to provably
achieve stronger security against malicious servers, notably
without introducing new security elements.
1. Introduction
Video conferencing apps such as Zoom are globally used
by hundreds of millions of users on a daily basis [1], and
aim to use cryptographic protocols to achieve some forms of
end-to-end encryption. While there have been many recent
advancements in highly-secure messaging protocols such as
Signal, their core protocols are typically not suitable for real-
time group applications, such as video conferencing, which
have have fundamentally different requirements involving
real-time constraints, robustness, and usability.
In practice, real-time group protocols used in real-world
widely deployed applications such as Zoom incorporate
design choices based on real-time requirements that include
assigning a group leader role to some participants, relying
on key distribution instead of key agreement, and using
simplified key evolution mechanisms. These design choices
improve features like robustness and usability, and enable
real-time communication, at the cost of lower security guar-
antees compared to some state-of-the-art secure messaging
protocols.
Nevertheless, many real-time group protocols explicitly
claim that they can provide a form of end-to-end security. For
example, in Zoom’s case, the ‘end-to-end security’ option in
the app’s settings is explained as “Encryption key stored on
your local device. No one else can obtain your encryption
key, not even Zoom.” However, it was shown that a malicious
Zoom server can eavesdrop or impersonate in groups [2],
[3]. The underlying reason is that in practice, a Zoom server
acts as the sole root of trust for the authenticity of users’
public keys and messages, and implicitly to those that are
used to distribute group-specific public keys, which in turn
are used by the leader to distribute the group key. Thus, if
the Zoom server replaces some of these public keys, it can
in fact learn your encryption key.
In this work, we propose a transformation to improve
the security of a class of protocols against malicious servers,
without introducing new security elements or even new
message flows. We achieve this by reworking the way in
which such protocols use passwords (known as passcodes
in Zoom). In the Zoom protocol, the server inherently needs
to know the group password and uses it to enforce access
control for the group. We propose a modification in which
the server no longer knows the password, which is distributed
only to the group members and is used by them directly for
access control. These passwords can be distributed as one
would have done currently (e-mail, messaging app, phone,
calendar appointment).
In our new threat model, we can no longer rely on the
server providing a priori secure channels between group
members. Instead, we employ password-authenticated key
exchange to prevent offline guessing attacks on the protocol.
We then formally prove that the transformed Zoom protocol
achieves a strong form of security even in the presence of
malicious servers.
At the technical level, we develop syntax and security
notions for multi-stage group key distribution protocols, of
which Zoom can be seen as an instance. We show under
which assumptions the Zoom protocol (version 4.0) can
2686
2024 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP)
© 2024, Cas Cremers. Under license to IEEE.
DOI 10.1109/SP54263.2024.00037
2024 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) | 979-8-3503-3130-1/24/$31.00 ©2024 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/SP54263.2024.00037
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on January 14,2026 at 01:24:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

be proven secure in our multi-stage group key distribution
model, and how the known attacks fit into this picture. We
design a generic transformation that can turn any protocol in
our class into a more secure protocol, for which we define
a stronger security notion. We show that our transformation
preserves the original security property, and provides security
against malicious servers. We apply our transformation to
the Zoom protocol, resulting in the ZoomPAKE protocol.
We also show how the ZoomPAKE protocol prevents the
attacks possible on the Zoom protocol.
Our main contributions are:
• We develop a solution to improve the security of Zoom-
like apps against malicious servers, without introducing
new security elements. The core observation is that Zoom
already uses group-specific passwords, but they are by
design known to the server. By leveraging techniques from
password-authenticated key exchange, we can get rid of
the reliance on the server for trusted channels.
• To formally prove the security of our solution, we need
to develop substantial machinery. We propose a formal
model and syntax of multi-stage group key distribution
protocols, called mGKD, of which Zoom can be seen as an
instance. For such protocols, we develop a basic security
notion Sec-mGKD-pki, which assumes the server did not
interfere with the public keys of a group’s participants,
and prove that Zoom meets this notion. We show how
real-world attacks manifest in this basic notion and notably
how malicious zoom servers can manipulate groups.
• We formally prove that our transformation turns a protocol
that is Sec-mGKD-pki secure into one that is also secure
in a model that makes no assumptions on the server but
only on the password, which we call Sec-mGKD-pw.
• We show how to efficiently apply our transformation to
the Zoom version 4.0 protocol to obtain the ZoomPAKE
protocol, in which the server no longer knows the password,
and groups are protected against malicious servers.
Outline We discuss related work in Section 2 and notation in
Section 3. In Section 4 we present our syntax for multi-stage
group key distribution (mGKD) protocols and three secu-
rity notions: basic Sec-mGKD-pki security, full end-to-end
Sec-mGKD-pw security, and the combined Sec-mGKD-pw+
security. We show in Section 5 that the Zoom library can
be modeled as a mGKD protocol and provably satisfies the
basic Sec-mGKD-pki security, and show how impersonation
attacks prevent it from satisfying the stronger Sec-mGKD-pw
notion. In Section 6, we develop a generic transformation
on any Sec-mGKD-pki secure mGKD protocol to achieve
Sec-mGKD-pw and Sec-mGKD-pw+ security and apply it
to Zoom.
We provide our customized notions w-PAKE security for
PAKE and frob security for AEAD and proof sketches of
all our theorems in appendix. We provide all details and full
proofs in the long version [4].
2. Related Work
While there is a lot of adjacent related work that we
will mention below, it turns out that there is surprisingly
little directly related work in analysis of real-time group
protocols. A number of surveys [5]–[10] examine numerous
historical designs for secure group key establishment in
different application scenarios. We identify three categories:
• centralized group key management/distribution protocols,
where each group has a single trusted authority for group
key generation and distribution.
• (continuous) group key agreement and distributed key
management protocols, where every party in a group
contributes to the group key generation and distribution.
• multi-factor key agreement and password-authenticated
key exchange protocols, where the group key generation
and distribution relies only on a secret that is used for
authorization to a group.
We review each of these categories below.
2.1. Centralized Group Key Management Protocols
A centralized group key management (CGKM) protocol
starts every group with a trusted authority, often referred
to as the “Key Distribution Center” (KDC). The KDC is
responsible for controlling for the whole group, e.g., member
authentication, access control, and group key generation and
distribution.
One of the first CGKM schemes is [11], [12]. In this
approach, the KDC creates a “Group Key Packet” (GKP) for
encrypting the communication payload with the help from
the first group participant. The KDC sends the GKP to every
party that wants to join the group and encrypts the new
GKP to all group participants using the old one. To achieve
forward secrecy, the KDC has to recreate the group whenever
a participant leaves the group. After that, numerous tree-like
CGKM constructions [13]–[18] were proposed to reduce
computation cost. In these approaches, all trust resides in the
KDC, which forms a single point of failure for compromise.
2.2. (Continuous) Group Key Agreement
Two important canonical group key agreement protocols
are [19], [20]. Their constructions have a binary tree-like
hierarchy, where the keying material of each party is a leaf
node at the bottom of the tree and the shared group key is
the top node of the tree. Every party can compute the key
material on the path from its associated leaf node to the
top using Diffie-Hellman Exchange (DHE). However, these
designs are inherently synchronous: the initialization of the
tree requires all parties to be online.
In the asynchronous secure messaging context, where
participants might be offline and group keys need to be
evolved, this approach does not work without modification.
These drawbacks were lifted by the design in [21], leading
to a line of papers in the continuous GKA (CGKA) domain,
including [22]–[24] that focus on continuously evolving
(ratcheting) group keys after the group establishment.
2687
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on January 14,2026 at 01:24:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

In general, ratcheting-like protocols such as CGKAs are
impractical for real-time group applications, as they have to
tolerate high amounts of packet loss and still being able to
continue immediately when some packets arrive on time.
2.3. Multi-factor Key Agreement and Password-
Authenticated Key Exchange
Multi-factor key agreement protocols often rely on three
classes of human authentication factors: (1) something you
know, e.g., passwords, (2) something you have, e.g., secure
devices, and (3) something you are, e.g., biometric data.
Among them, the password is possibly one of the most
convenient means for sharing in practice, as it can be easily
sent out-of-band, e.g., via email, in letters, or even in-person.
Human-chosen passwords are often low-entropy rather
than uniformly at random. Password-Authenticated Key Ex-
change (PAKE) protocols are designed to allow some parties
to establish a high-entropy session key with authentication
based on a low-entropy shared password without being
subject to offline guessing attacks. There are numerous
modern and efficient 2-party PAKE constructions in the
literature, such as CPace [25], [26] and SPAKE2 [27]–[29].
The are also several known group PAKE protocols [30]–[33].
However, the existing group PAKE protocols always require
multiple rounds for the key agreement and is restricted
to static groups. Thus, these group PAKE protocols are
impractical for the real-time group applications, where the
participants can freely join and leave the groups.
2.4. Existing Security Analysis for Zoom
In [2], [3], the authors describe several specific classes
of impersonation attacks on end-to-end Zoom (version 2.3.1).
First, a malicious meeting participant can impersonate any
other participant inside this group, since there is no entity
authentication in a group meeting. Second, the Zoom server
can replay some messages and impersonate a legitimate user
for a meeting. Third, if multiple users share a device, the
Zoom server colluding with any user can impersonate any
other users on the same device. Moreover, the authors also
present a tampering attack based on potential implementation
flaws and a Denial-of-Service attack. [2], [3] provide feasible
countermeasures for each of above specific attacks. However,
more general impersonation attacks by a malicious server
are not considered in [2], [3].
The “accepted papers” page of Eurocrypt 2023 lists [34].
According to the title and abstract, [34] formally analyzes
the security of the end-to-end Zoom protocol, focuses on
various liveness properties, including dynamic group joining
and leaving and the update of group roster and keys, but does
not address assumptions on the server or PKI. However, at
the time of this submission, [34] is not yet publicly available
(neither on IACR eprint, arxiv, nor the author’s webpages),
and thus we cannot comment on its details.
3. Preliminaries
We use the following notational conventions. We write
ϵ to denote the empty string, and write x ∥y to denote the
concatenation of strings x and y. We assume the existence of
a reserved error symbol ⊥. We write y ←x for deterministic
assignment or computation. We write y
$←−D for randomized
sampling and y
$←−f(x) for non-deterministic computation.
We write J·K for a boolean statement that is either true
(denoted by 1) or false (denoted by 0).
Within algorithms, we write “require C” to denote that C
is a requirement: if the condition C is not met, the algorithm
undoes the execution and outputs ⊥.
Moreover, we use several abbreviations. To avoid dupli-
cating some longer variable names, we use some update-
based variants of common operators: For a number x, we
write x++ as a shorthand for x ←x + 1. For a set S and
an element x, we write S
+
←x for S ←S ∪{x}, and
S
−
←x for S ←S \ {x}. We write PPT as an abbreviation
of Probabilistic Polynomial Time.
4. multi-stage Group Key Distribution Protocols
In this section, we define our syntax for multi-stage
Group Key Distribution mGKD protocols. Our class of
mGKD protocols covers behaviors of a party for using real-
time group services, such as long-term identity information
generation, joining groups, group key rotation, and leaving
groups. Then, we propose three security models that capture
distinct security guarantees for real-time group services.
4.1. mGKD Definition
mGKD protocols are stateful interactive group communi-
cation protocols executed by a set of parties P. Each party
P must be uniquely identified by an identifier idP . Each
group is uniquely identified by an identifier gid. In each
group, one party performs the leader role; all other group
members perform the participant role. The role of each party
in different groups might be distinct: a party can be leader
in one group and participant in others. In practice, the leader
is typically the so-called host that initiated the group. In
this paper, we assume that each group gid is associated
with a unique leader and that the group’s leader stays in
the group for its entire duration. While one can in theory
implement changing leaders by starting a new group, we
leave the modeling and efficient implementation of multiple
and changing leaders to future work.
Definition 1. A multi-stage group key distribution pro-
tocol mGKD = (SignUp, Schedule, Register, Join, Leave,
KeyRotat) consists of the following algorithms:
Sign Up: mSignUp
$←−SignUp(P) allows a (stateful) party
P to initialize a long-term identity information for signing
up. The private portion is locally stored. The public portion
is output as an outgoing sign-up message mSignUp.
Group Schedule: mgid
GSch
$←−Schedule(P, gid, gs) allows a
(stateful) party P to take the role of the leader for
2688
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on January 14,2026 at 01:24:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

scheduling a group gid using a group secret gs. The output
is an outgoing group schedule message mgid
GSch for the server.
The group secret gs is expected to be sent to authorized
participants over secure out-of-band channels.
Register: Register = (Register-L, Register-P) consists of
two sub-algorithms depending on the role of the caller:
• m′
$←−
Register-L(P, gid, gs, m)
(resp.
m′
$←−
Register-P(P, gid, gs, m)) allows a (stateful) party P to
register for a group gid as leader (resp. participant)
using a group secret gs and an incoming message
m followed by group initialization. The output is an
outgoing message m′.
Participant Join: Join = (Join-L, Join-P) allows a partic-
ipant to interact with a leader for joining a group. This
interactive phase consists of two sub-algorithms depending
on the role of the caller:
• m′
$←−
Join-L(P, idP ′, gid, gs, m)
(resp.
m′
$←−
Join-P(P, idP ′, gid, gs, m)) allows a leader P (resp. a
participant P) of the group gid to input a group secret gs
and an incoming message m and to output an outgoing
message m′ for the participant (resp. the leader) P ′.
Member Leave: Leave = (Leave-L, Leave-P) consists of
two sub-algorithms depending on the role of the caller:
• Leave-L(P, gid, idP ′) (resp. Leave-P(P, gid, idP ′)) al-
lows the leader (resp. a participant) P of the group
gid to react to a party P ′’s leaving. If idP = idP ′, the
leader (resp. the participant) P leaves the group gid
and erases the corresponding state information.
Key Rotation: KeyRotat
=
(KeyRotat-L, KeyRotat-P)
consists of two sub-algorithms depending on the role of
the caller:
• mKRot
$←−KeyRotat-L(P, gid, m) allows the leader P of
the group gid to input an incoming message m and to
locally update the group key. The output is an outgoing
message mKRot that enables all participants of the same
group gid to update group keys correspondingly.
• mKRot
$←−KeyRotat-P(P, gid, m) allows a participant
P of the group gid to input an incoming message m
and to locally update the group key. The output is an
(optionally empty) outgoing message mKRot.
We assume all incoming and outgoing messages of an
mGKD protocol are publicly accessible; we leave this implicit
as the concrete mechanisms can differ substantially between
protocols, but could for example be a PKI or a “bulletin
board” on the server. In contrast, the input group secret gs
of the Schedule algorithm is expected to be chosen by the
leader and be sent to authorized parties for joining the group
over secure out-of-band channels. Before a party P joins a
group gid, P has to register for this group, no matter whether
P has previously joined the group gid and left. The Member
Leave phase enables every party P to react to a participant P ′
leaving the group, notably, without any additional incoming
message. This captures the scenario where the server might
notify group members that a participant has left the group
without sending any leave request due to unexpected network
disconnection. The KeyRotat algorithm enables every party
to update their group key, the execution frequency of which
can be decided in advance, in a regular schedule and/or when
a party joins or leaves the group.
To model concurrent or sequential groups of a party P,
let πgid
P
denote party P’s session with respect to the short-
term group gid. In addition, each party P has an associated
long-term state stP that is shared by all of P’s sessions.
Definition 2. In a mGKD protocol, each party P has the
following state variables. The long-term state variables are
initialized during the Sign Up phase:
• stP .id: the associated and unique identifier of the party P.
In this paper, we assume it equal to idP .
• stP .isk: the identity secret key of the party P.
• stP .ipk: the identity public key of the party P.
The short-term per-group state variables are initialized
during the Register phase:
• πgid
P .sk: the group-specific secret key of the party P for
joining the group gid.
• πgid
P .pk: the group-specific public key of the party P for
joining the group gid.
• πgid
P .gk: the current group key used by party P, which is
supposed to be shared by all parties in the group gid. This
variable is initialized with ⊥.
• πgid
P .gkid: the index of the current group key of the party
P in the group gid. This variable is initialized with 0.
• πgid
P .GP: The set of all parties in the group gid. This
variable is initialized with the empty set ∅.
• πgid
P .status ∈{⊥, registered, joined}: the status that indi-
cates whether the party P has initialized the state for (but
not yet registered for), or registered for (but not yet joined),
or joined the group gid. This variable is ⊥by default.
Due to the page limit, we omit the correctness analysis
and refer the reader to the full version of the paper.
4.2. A Generic Security Model
We next define a generic Sec-mGKD-X security model.
By presenting different instantiations of the freshness con-
ditions that the attacker must obey and of the winning
conditions that the attacker must pursue, we then introduce
three distinct concrete models for X ∈{pki, pw, pw+}
in Section 4.3, Section 4.4, and Section 4.5.
Trust Model. We assume that all parties’ sampled randomness
is independent, uniform, and unpredictable. For simplicity,
we assume every leader samples group secret from a same
distribution D (according to the underlying protocol). We
assume that every party joins every group at most once.
We assume that every leader stays in the corresponding
group for the entire duration and leaves only when all other
participants have left. This means, once the leader leaves
the corresponding group, this group is immediately marked
as “invalid” and no party is allowed to register for or join
this group anymore. We assume that every party can send
register request for every group at most once. Our model
assumes a single shared group key for communication. Thus,
2689
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on January 14,2026 at 01:24:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

impersonation attacks between parties inside the group is
out of scope of this work.
Threat Model. We allow the attacker to have full control over
the network and can eavesdrop, drop, and insert messages
during all phases. We allow the attacker to corrupt the
long-term state stP for any participant P to capture the
real-world scenarios where the hardware devices might be
stolen. Moreover, we allow attackers to compromise the
short-term per-group state πgid
P
for any participant P after
joining any group gid to capture attacks during the ongoing
communications. We also allow attackers to leak arbitrary
group keys (to analyze the impact on the security of previous
and future group keys). We allow attackers to reveal the group
secret for any group to capture the real-world scenarios where
the the out-of-band channels might be vulnerable.
Security Experiment. The security experiment is conducted
between a challenger C and an attacker A against a mGKD
protocol Π. At the beginning of the experiment, the chal-
lenger C samples a random challenge bit b ∈{0, 1}. During
the experiment, C produces two sequences of variables
{GP(gid,gkid)}gid,gkid and {gk (gid,gkid)
P
}gid,gkid,P . The variable
GP(gid,gkid) aims to record the identifier of every party that is
expected to know the gkid-th group key in the group gid from
the leader’s view. The challenger C monitors the states of
the leader P of any group gid. Whenever πgid
P .GP changes,
C records GP(gid,πgid
P .gkid) ←GP(gid,πgid
P .gkid) ∪πgid
P .GP. The
variable gk (gid,gkid)
P
records the gkid-th group key derived by
any party P in the group gid. Whenever πgid
P .gkid changes
for any party P and group gid during the experiment, C stores
the new group key gk
(gid,πgid
P .gkid)
P
←πgid
P .gk. The attacker A
can interact with C by querying the following oracles, where
C responds according to Π. To simplify the explanation, we
partition the oracles into categorizes.
Oracle Category 1: Setup of groups and parties. This
category includes a NEWPARTY oracle that simulates the
Sign Up phase of a party, a NEWGROUP that simulates the
Group Schedule phase of a group, and a AUTHORIZE oracle
that simulates the group secret transmission from the leader
to the authorized participants over out-of-band channels.
• NEWPARTY(idP ): This oracle can be queried at most once
on each input. The challenger C initializes a state stP by set-
ting stP .id ←idP . Then, C runs mP
SignUp
$←−SignUp(stP )
and followed by forwarding the sign-up message mP
SignUp
to A. The party P is marked as “created”.
• NEWGROUP(idP , gid): This oracle can be invoked at
most once for each gid. The input party P must be
marked as “created”. The challenger C samples the secret
of the group gid by gsgid
$←−D and runs mgid
GSch
$←−
Schedule(P, gid, gsgid) for an associated outgoing message
mgid
GSch. Then, C marks the group gid as “created” and
“valid” and marks P as the leader of the group gid and
“authorized”. Finally, C returns mgid
GSch to A.
• AUTHORIZE(gid, idP ): The group gid must be marked as
both created and valid, and the party P must be marked
as created and have not registered for the group gid, i.e.,
πgid
P .status = ⊥. The challenger C marks P as authorized
for the group gid.
Oracle Category 2: Register phase. This category includes a
REGISTERAUTH oracle, which simulates that an authorized
party registers for a group using honest group secret, and a
REGISTERINJECT oracle, which simulates that an unautho-
rized (malicious) party registers for a group with an input
using some chosen group secret.
• REGISTERAUTH(idP , gid, m): This oracle can be queried
at most once for each tuple (idP , gid). The group gid must
be marked as both created and valid and the party P
must be authorized for the group gid. The challenger C
runs Register-L(P, gid, gsgid, m) if P is the leader of the
group gid and Register-P(P, gid, gsgid, m) otherwise. In
both cases, C forwards the output message m′ to A.
• REGISTERINJECT(idP , gid, gs, m): This oracle can be
queried at most once for each tuple (idP , gid). The group
gid must be marked as both created and valid and the party
P must be unauthorized for the group gid. The challenger
C runs Register-P(P, gid, gs, m) and forwards the output
message m′ to A.
Oracle Category 3: Participant Join phase. This category
includes a SENDJOINAUTH oracle, which simulates that
an authorized party (as either leader or participant) sends
messages to another party (either authorized or unauthorized)
during the Participant Join phase in the group, and a
SENDJOININJECT oracle, which simulates that an unautho-
rized (malicious) participant sends messages (to the leader)
during the Participants Join phase in the group.
• SENDJOINAUTH(idP , idP ′, gid, m): The challenger C first
checks
– whether gid is marked as created and valid,
– whether P is authorized for this group gid,
– whether both parties P and P ′ have been created and
registered for this group,
– whether either P or P ′ is the leader of the group gid,
– whether the leader of the group, either P or P ′, has
joined the group, and that the other party hasn’t joined
the group yet.
If any of the check fails, C directly returns ⊥to A.
Otherwise, C runs Join-L(P, idP ′, gid, gsgid, m) if P is the
leader of the group gid or Join-P(P, idP ′, gid, gsgid, m) if
P is a participant. Then, the output message m′ of either
Join-L or Join-P is returned to A.
• SENDJOININJECT(idP , idP ′, gid, gs, m): The challenger C
first checks
– whether gid is marked as created and valid,
– whether P is unauthorized for the group gid,
– whether P ′ is the leader of the group gid,
– whether the participant P has been created and registered
for this group gid but has not joined the group yet, and
– whether the leader P ′ has joined the group gid.
If any of the check fails, C directly returns ⊥to A.
Otherwise, C runs Join-P(P, idP ′, gid, gs, m) and returns
the output message m′ of Join-P to A.
2690
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on January 14,2026 at 01:24:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Oracle Category 4: Member Leave phase. This category
includes a SENDLEAVE oracle, which simulates that a
party notices another party leaving the group gid, and an
ENDGROUP oracle, which simulates that a leader leaves and
ends the group.
• SENDLEAVE(idP , gid, idP ′): The challenger C aborts if
– the gid is not marked as both created and valid, or
– the leaving party P ′ is the leader of the group gid, or
– the party P has not joined the group.
Otherwise, C runs Leave-L(P, gid, idP ′) if P is the leader
of the group gid and Leave-P(P, gid, idP ′) otherwise.
• ENDGROUP(gid): The challenger C first checks
– whether the group gid is created and valid, and
– whether the leader P of the group gid is the unique party
in his local party list, i.e., πgid
P .GP = {idP }.
If either check fails, C
aborts. Otherwise, C
runs
Leave-L(P, gid, idP ) and marks the group gid as “invalid”.
Oracle Category 5: Key Rotation phase. This category
includes only one SENDKEYROTAT oracle that simulates
the process where a party updates their local group key.
• SENDKEYROTAT(idP , gid, m): The party P must have
joined the group gid. The challenger C runs KeyRotat-L(P,
gid, m) if P
is the leader of the group gid and
KeyRotat-P(P, gid, m) otherwise. The output message of
either KeyRotat-L or KeyRotat-P is returned to A.
Oracle Category 6: Secret information leakage. This
category includes four oracles CORRUPT, COMPROMISE,
LEAK, and REVEAL, that respectively simulates that the
attacker A knows the long-term state of a party, the short-
term per-group state of a party for a group, a group key of
a party in a group, and the group secret of a group.
• CORRUPT(idP ): The challenger C first checks whether the
party P is created. If the check fails, C simply returns ⊥.
Otherwise, C returns stP to the attacker A and marks stP
as “corrupted”.
• COMPROMISE(idP , gid): The challenger C checks whether
the party P has joined the group gid, i.e, πgid
P .status =
joined. If the check fails, C simply returns ⊥. Otherwise,
C returns πgid
P
to the attacker A, followed by marking πgid
P
as “compromised” and gk
(gid,πgid
P .gkid)
P
as “leaked”.
• LEAK(idP , gid, gkid): The challenger C checks whether
gk (gid,gkid)
P
has been set. If gk (gid,gkid)
P
= ⊥, then C simply
returns ⊥. Otherwise, C marks gk (gid,gkid)
P
as “leaked” and
returns gk (gid,gkid)
P
to A.
• REVEAL(gid): If the group gid is not created, then the
challenger C simply returns ⊥. Otherwise, C marks gid as
“revealed” and returns gsgid to A.
Oracle Category 7: Test challenge bit. This category includes
only one TEST oracle that returns either a real group key if
the challenge bit b = 0, or a random key if b = 1.
• TEST(idP , gid, gkid): This oracle can be queried at most
once. If the party P is authorized for the group gid and the
party P has produced gkid-th group key, i.e., gk (gid,gkid)
P
̸=
⊥, then the challenger C returns gk (gid,gkid)
P
to A if the
challenge bit b = 0, or a random key from the same space
if b = 1. Then, C further marks the party P, the group
identifier gid, and the group key index gkid as “tested”.
Otherwise, C immediately returns ⊥.
Advantage Measures. In the end, the attacker A outputs a bit
b′ ∈{0, 1}. Under two freshness conditions freshSec-mGKD-X
KAuth
and freshSec-mGKD-X
KPriv
that prevent the attacker A from trivially
winning the experiment, we say the attacker A wins the
experiment Sec-mGKD-X against a mGKD protocol Π, if
either of the following events is triggered:
1) [Event EKAuth] there exists any group gid with the leader
P gid, any party P ′ that is authorized for the group gid, and
any group key index gkid, such that gk (gid,gkid)
P ′
̸= ⊥but
gk (gid,gkid)
P gid
̸= gk (gid,gkid)
P ′
, without violating the freshness
condition freshSec-mGKD-X
KAuth
(idP ′, gid, gkid).
2) [Event EKPriv] b = b′ without violating the freshness
condition freshSec-mGKD-X
KPriv
(idP ′, gid, gkid), where P ′, gid,
and gkid are respectively the tested party, group identifier,
and group key index.
We define AdvSec-mGKD-X
Π
(A) as the advantage that A can
win the Sec-mGKD-X experiment against a mGKD protocol
Π, namely,
AdvSec-mGKD-X
Π
(A) := max
 Pr[EKPriv]−1
2
, Pr[EKAuth]

.
Definition 3 (Sec-mGKD-X). We say that a mGKD protocol
Π is Sec-mGKD-X-secure for X ∈{pki, pw, pw+}, if the
advantage AdvSec-mGKD-X
Π
(A) is negligible for any PPT
adversary A.
4.3. The Sec-mGKD-pki Security Model
Our basic security model Sec-mGKD-pki captures the
following security guarantees for an authorized party in a
group assuming the honest distribution of long-term sign-up
message of all parties within this group. Note that this basic
model guarantees that only group members can learn the key,
and where group membership is determined by the server.
In reality, and in our model, the server may insert group
members that are not authorized by the leader and do not
know the passcode.
1) (Implicit) Group Key Authentication: If a group member
accepts a group key, then the leader must have produced
the same group with the same group key index.
2) Group Key Secrecy: If a group member accepts a group
key, then an attacker cannot derive this key, even if it
knows other group keys.
3) Perfect Forward Secrecy: An attacker that compromises
a party’s long-term keys, can not learn the group keys of
any group the party was previously in.
Definition 4 (Sec-mGKD-pki Freshness Conditions). We
say the freshness condition freshSec-mGKD-pki
KAuth
(idP ′, gid, gkid),
where gid has a unique leader P gid, holds if and only if
1) the per-group states πgid
P gid and πgid
P ′ are not compromised,
2691
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on January 14,2026 at 01:24:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

2) the long-term states stP gid and stP ′ are not corrupted before
P gid and P ′ joined the group gid, and
3) the sign-up messages mP gid
SignUp and mP ′
SignUp of P gid and P ′
are honestly delivered to the other.
We say the freshness condition freshSec-mGKD-pki
KPriv
(idP ′,
gid, gkid) holds if and only if
1) the group key gk (gid,gkid)
P
is not leaked for all parties P in
the group gid with idP ∈GP(gid,gkid),
2) the short-term state πgid
P
is not compromised for all parties
P in the group gid with idP ∈GP(gid,gkid),
3) the long-term state stP gid of the leader P gid in the group gid
is not corrupted before all parties P with idP ∈GP(gid,gkid)
joined the group gid,
4) the long-term state stP of all participants P in the group
gid with idP ∈GP(gid,gkid) is not corrupted before P
joined the group gid, and
5) the sign-up messages mP
SignUp of all parties P with idP ∈
GP(gid,gkid) are honestly distributed within the group gid.
Conclusion. Our Sec-mGKD-pki security model captures all
guarantees listed at the beginning of this subsection:
1) (Implicit) Group Key Authentication: If authentication
does not hold, the attacker A can win via EKAuth.
2) Group Key Secrecy: The attacker is allowed to leak
arbitrarily many group keys except for the tested one. If
group key secrecy does not hold, A can win via EKPriv.
3) Perfect Forward Secrecy: The attacker is allowed to
corrupt the long-term state of the tested party. If perfect
forward secrecy does not hold, A can win via EKPriv.
4.4. The Sec-mGKD-pw Security Model
The basic Sec-mGKD-pki model has two restrictions:
• First, both freshness conditions freshSec-mGKD-pki
KPriv
and
freshSec-mGKD-pki
KAuth
require the honest distribution of the sign-
up messages. Since the sign-up messages are distributed by
servers or by PKI in practice, this restriction is also known
as “trusted PKI” assumption in the related literature. In
the full end-to-end setting, i.e., no trusted PKI or server
exists, a Sec-mGKD-pki secure mGKD protocol might still
suffer from machine-in-the-middle attacks such that the
attacker can easily impersonate any participant towards the
group leader and impersonate any group leader towards
any participant.
• Second, both freshness conditions freshSec-mGKD-pki
KPriv
and
freshSec-mGKD-pki
KAuth
allow the attacker to reveal all group
secrets but do not prevent unauthorized parties from
knowing the group keys. Thus, this Sec-mGKD-pki model
does not capture the security benefit provided by the group
secret transmitted over secure out-of-band channels.
The goal of the Sec-mGKD-pw security model is to
preserve the guarantees achieved in Sec-mGKD-pki model
and to capture the following additional security guarantee,
while getting rid of the “trusted PKI” assumption.
4) (Implicit) Group Member Authentication: If any party
produces the same group key as the leader of a group, then
this party must be authorized for this group, as long as the
group secret is not revealed.
We replace the “trusted PKI” assumption with the
arguably simpler assumption of a shared “secure (short)
group secret”. We assume that (short) group secrets (such
as passwords or pin codes) can be distributed over out-of-
band secure channels, e.g., by email, encrypted messaging
application (e.g., Signal), or even in person. In fact, a similar
passcode mechanism has been widely deployed in real life
by many service providers such as Zoom for access control
management (see Section 5.1). The only difference is that
the current Zoom passcode mechanism hands over passcode
and the rule of verifying it to the (possibly) untrusted server,
while in our model the group secret is known only to the
participants.
Definition 5 (Sec-mGKD-pw Freshness Conditions). We
say the freshness condition freshSec-mGKD-pw
KAuth
(idP ′, gid, gkid),
where gid has a unique leader P gid, holds if and only if
1) the per-group states πgid
P gid and πgid
P ′ are not compromised,
2) the long-term states stP gid and stP ′ are not corrupted before
P gid and P ′ joined the group gid, and
3) the group gid is not revealed.
We say the freshness condition freshSec-mGKD-pw
KPriv
(idP ′, gid,
gkid) holds if and only if
1) the group key gk (gid,gkid)
P
is not leaked for all authorized
parties P in the group gid with idP ∈GP(gid,gkid),
2) the short-term state πgid
P
is not compromised for all autho-
rized parties P in the group gid with idP ∈GP(gid,gkid),
3) the long-term state stP gid of the leader P gid in the group
gid is not corrupted before all authorized parties P with
idP ∈GP(gid,gkid) joined the group gid,
4) the long-term state stP of all authorized participants P
in the group gid with idP ∈GP(gid,gkid) is not corrupted
before P joined the group gid, and
5) the group gid is not revealed.
Conclusion. Note that Sec-mGKD-pki and Sec-mGKD-pw
models share the same oracles and similar freshness condi-
tions. Thus, it is straightforward that our Sec-mGKD-pw
model also satisfies all guarantees listed in Section 4.3.
However, we stress two main distinctions of the freshness
conditions in Sec-mGKD-pw and Sec-mGKD-pki models
that make the security guarantees provided by these two
models very different.
1) [Full End-to-End Security] Both freshSec-mGKD-pw
KAuth
and
freshSec-mGKD-pw
KPriv
allow attackers to manipulate the trans-
mission of all messages, including the sign-up mes-
sages of all parties in any group, which are forbidden
by freshSec-mGKD-pki
KAuth
sub-point 3) and freshSec-mGKD-pki
KPriv
sub-point 5). Instead, freshSec-mGKD-pw
KAuth
sub-point 3) and
freshSec-mGKD-pw
KPriv
sub-point 5) require no leakage of the
group secrets. This indicates that our Sec-mGKD-pw secu-
rity model captures the full end-to-end security, i.e., against
a malicious server. Consequently, this new Sec-mGKD-pw
model solves the first restriction of Sec-mGKD-pki model.
2692
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on January 14,2026 at 01:24:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

2) While the freshSec-mGKD-pki
KPriv
(idP ′, gid, gkid) condition sub-
points 1) - 4) require no group key leakage, no short-term
per-group state compromise, and no long-term state corrup-
tion for all parties P in the group with idP ∈GP(gid,gkid),
our new freshSec-mGKD-pw
KPriv
(idP ′, gid, gkid) condition has the
same requirements in sub-points 1) - 4) but only for the au-
thorized parties in every group. By this, our Sec-mGKD-pw
model captures the following property:
• (Implicit) Group Member Authentication: The attacker
can leak arbitrarily many group keys of any unauthorized
party in the tested group. If an unauthorized party can
successfully produce a same group key as a leader, then
the attacker can test this leader, leak the group key of
this unauthorized party, and win via the event EKPriv.
4.5. The Sec-mGKD-pw+ Security Model
Note that the Sec-mGKD-pki and Sec-mGKD-pw mod-
els rely on different assumptions: trusted PKI and secure
group secret. We then define a third Sec-mGKD-pw+ model
that incorporates the above two models. The goal of the
Sec-mGKD-pw+ model is to capture the security of a mGKD
protocol if either the “trusted PKI” or the “secure group
secret” assumption holds.
Definition 6 (Sec-mGKD-pw+ Freshness Conditions). We
say the freshness condition freshSec-mGKD-pw+
KAuth
(idP ′, gid, gkid)
holds if and only if freshSec-mGKD-pki
KAuth
(idP ′, gid, gkid) or
freshSec-mGKD-pw
KAuth
(idP ′, gid, gkid) holds.
We say the freshness condition freshSec-mGKD-pw+
KPriv
(idP ′,
gid, gkid) holds if and only if freshSec-mGKD-pki
KPriv
(idP ′, gid,
gkid) or freshSec-mGKD-pw
KPriv
(idP ′, gid, gkid) holds.
The following corollary is straightforward by definition:
Corollary 1. Let Π denote a mGKD protocol. If Π is
Sec-mGKD-pki and Sec-mGKD-pw secure, then Π is also
Sec-mGKD-pw+ secure, and vice versa.
5. Zoom’s protocol is a mGKD protocol
The Zoom library allows parties to establish end-to-
end group meeting communication. In this section, we first
introduce the Zoom overview [35] (version 4.0) in Section 5.1.
Then, we show that Zoom library is Sec-mGKD-pki secure
in Section 5.2 but not Sec-mGKD-pw secure in Section 5.3.
5.1. The Zoom End-to-End Connection Overview
For end-to-end encrypted meetings, Zoom only supports
connecting from installed clients: Browser-based connections
are not supported. Zoom distinguishes between users and de-
vices by non-cryptographic user identifiers uid and hardware
identifiers hid. We model the identifier of each party P by a
pair of user and hardware identifiers, i.e., idP = (uidP , hidP )
and assume that party identifiers are unique1.
1The Zoom white-paper [35] states that the user identifiers uid are
assigned by servers and the hardware identifiers hid are randomly sampled.
Based on this, we assume that they are unique in practice.
Zoom deploys two infrastructures for transmitting cryp-
tographic primitives: an identity management system and
a multimedia router (MMR). While the identity manage-
ment system distributes cryptographic public keys generated
by individual clients, the MMR distributes cryptographic
messages between parties in a meeting. The connection
between parties and servers are established on TLS-tunnels
over TCP and are encrypted with AES in GCM mode. In
this paper, we assume the existence of Zoom servers but do
not explicitly model them, because our goal is to consider
them adversary-controlled. Zoom allows every party to set
up a group meeting. Groups are uniquely identified by their
group identifiers gid. Each group meeting is equipped with
a specific “bulletin board”, where all parties can post (their
own) and retrieve (others’) cryptographic messages. The
server is able to control and tamper with the bulletin boards.
The end-to-end secure Zoom library consists of six phases
following the mGKD protocol syntax2, of which we give an
overview in Figure 1. We recall the cryptographic algorithms
ZSign and ZBox underlying the Zoom library in Appendix B.
For domain separation, Zoom uses hardcoded context strings
(ctxt1,ctxt2,ctxt3).
Sign Up SignUp(P): During the Sign Up phase, every party
P samples an identity public-private ZSign key pair and
stores them into the long-term state stP . The party P outputs
the identity public key to the server as the sign-up message.
This algorithm is executed only once for each party, i.e.,
each user on each hardware device.3
Group Schedule Schedule(P, gid, gs): During the Group
Schedule phase, the leader P parses a passcode pcgid from
the input gs. The leader P sends pcgid to not only the
server as the group schedule message mgid
GSch for the access
control management, but also to the authorized participants
for joining the group over out-of-band channels, e.g., email.
Register Register = (Register-L, Register-P): The Reg-
ister phase enables every party P to register for join-
ing the meeting gid. We separate the description for
Register-P(P ′, gid, gs, m), where the P ′ is a participant of
the group gid, and for Register-L(P, gid, gs, m), where P
the leader of the group gid.
• Register-P(P ′, gid, gs, m): The input message m is given
by the server and should be correctly parsed as a special
mUUID string. The mUUID string is a server-generated
per-group-instance random string that the individual parties
cannot control. Moreover, the participant P ′ also inputs
a group secret gs that can be correctly parsed as a
passcode pcgid. This algorithm first samples a public-
private per-group ZBox key pair and stores them into
2The official Zoom white-paper [35] only sketches the re-joining
mechanism informally, and does not specify any mechanism to change
leaders. We leave the analysis both functionalities to future work.
3The Zoom library also supports anonymous log-in: people without
a Zoom account can also join a group meeting as a “guest participant”
(note that the guest cannot play the role of leader). Before a guest joins
a group, the Sign Up algorithm is always executed. This prevents other
parties from tracing them across meetings by noticing when a long-term
key is reused [35].
2693
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on January 14,2026 at 01:24:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Leader P, idP = (uidP , hidP )
Participant P ′, idP ′ = (uidP ′, hidP ′)
Server
SignUp(P):
SignUp(P ′):
(pkZSign, skZSign)
$←−ZSign.KG
(pk′
ZSign, sk′
ZSign)
$←−ZSign.KG
Sign
Up
stP .isk ←skZSign, stP .ipk ←pkZSign
stP ′.isk ←sk′
ZSign, stP ′.ipk ←pk′
ZSign
mP
SignUp = stP .ipk
mP ′
SignUp = stP ′.ipk
Schedule(P, gid, gs):
Group
Schedule
Parse ( pcgid , pw gid ) ←gs, mgid
GSch ←pcgid
gid, mgid
GSch
gid, gs (over an out-of-band channel)
Register-L(P, gid, gs, m):
Register-P(P ′, gid, gs, m):
Parse mUUID ←m, Parse ( pcgid , pw gid ) ←gs
Parse mUUID ←m, Parse ( pcgid , pw gid ) ←gs
(pkZBox, skZBox)
$←−ZBox.KG
(pk′
ZBox, sk′
ZBox)
$←−ZBox.KG
πgid
P .sk ←skZBox, πgid
P .pk ←pkZBox
πgid
P ′.sk ←sk′
ZBox, πgid
P ′.pk ←pk′
ZBox
Bindinggid
P ←gid ∥mUUID ∥uidP ∥hidP ∥stP .ipk ∥πgid
P .pk
Bindinggid
P ′ ←gid ∥mUUID ∥uidP ′ ∥hidP ′ ∥stP ′.ipk ∥πgid
P ′.pk
Register
σgid
P ←ZSign.Sign(stP .isk, ctxt1, Bindinggid
P )
σgid
P ′ ←ZSign.Sign(stP ′.isk, ctxt1, Bindinggid
P ′)
πgid
P .status ←joined, πgid
P .GP
+
←idP
πgid
P .status ←registered
πgid
P .gk
$←−{0, 1}256, πgid
P .gkid ←1
Run first pass of PAKEPP(pw gid) for c(P ′,gid)
PP,1
pcgid , m(P,gid)
Reg
= (πgid
P .pk, σgid
P )
pcgid , m(P ′,gid)
Reg
= (πgid
P ′.pk, σgid
P ′), c(P ′,gid)
PP,1
Server rejects if
mgid
GSch ̸= pcgid
Join-L(P, idP ′, gid, gs, m):
Join-P(P ′, idP , gid, gs, m):
Parse (mUUID, mP ′
SignUp, m(P ′,gid)
Reg
, c(P ′,gid)
PP,1
) ←m
Parse (mUUID, mP
SignUp, m(P,gid)
Reg
, cgid
P ′, c(P ′,gid)
PP,2
, nonceP ′
PP ) ←m
Parse ( pcgid , pw gid) ←gs
Parse ( pcgid , pw gid) ←gs
Run second pass of PAKEPP(pw gid) for k(P ′,gid)
PP
and c(P ′,gid)
PP,2
Run PAKEPP(pw gid) for k(P ′,gid)
PP
nonceP ′
PP
$←−{0, 1}lPP, Store k(P ′,gid)
PP
cgid
P ′ ←AEADPP.Dec(k(P ′,gid)
PP
, nonceP ′
PP, (mP
SignUp, mP ′
SignUp), cgid
P ′)
Parse ipk P ′ ←mP ′
SignUp, (pkgid
P ′, σgid
P ′) ←m(P ′,gid)
Reg
require cgid
P ′ ̸= ⊥, Store k(P ′,gid)
PP
Bindinggid
P ′ ←gid ∥mUUID ∥uidP ′ ∥hidP ′ ∥ipk P ′ ∥pkgid
P ′
Parse ipk P ←mP
SignUp, (pkgid
P , σgid
P ) ←m(P,gid)
Reg
Participant
Join
Bindinggid
P ←gid ∥mUUID ∥uidP ∥hidP ∥ipk P ∥pkgid
P
ZSign.Vrfy(ipk P ′, σgid
P ′, ctxt1, Bindinggid
P ′)
Meta ←gid ∥mUUID ∥uidP ∥uidP ′
ZSign.Vrfy(ipk P , σgid
P , ctxt1, Bindinggid
P )
cgid
P ′
$←−ZBox.Enc(πgid
P .sk, pkgid
P ′, ctxt2, ctxt3, Meta, (πgid
P .gk, πgid
P .gkid))
Meta ←gid ∥mUUID ∥uidP ∥uidP ′
cgid
P ′ ←AEADPP.Enc(k(P ′,gid)
PP
, nonceP ′
PP, (mP
SignUp, mP ′
SignUp), cgid
P ′)
(gk, gkid)
$←−ZBox.Dec(πgid
P ′.sk, pkgid
P , ctxt2, ctxt3, Meta, cP ′)
πgid
P .GP
+
←idP ′, Store pkgid
P ′
πgid
P ′.gk ←gk, πgid
P ′.gkid ←gkid, πgid
P ′.status ←joined, Store pkgid
P
idP ′, cgid
P ′, c(P ′,gid)
PP,2
, nonceP ′
PP
KeyRotat-L(P, gid, m):
KeyRotat-P(P, gid, m):
require m = ϵ
(cgid
P ′, nonceP ′
PP ) ←m
πgid
P .gk
$←−{0, 1}256, πgid
P .gkid++
cgid
P ′ ←AEADPP.Dec(k(P ′,gid)
PP
, nonceP ′
PP, (mP
SignUp, mP ′
SignUp), cgid
P ′)
foreach idP ∈πgid
P .GP and idP ̸= idP :
require cgid
P ′ ̸= ⊥
Key
Rotation
cgid
P
$←−ZBox.Enc(πgid
P .sk, pkgid
P , ctxt2, ctxt3, Meta, (πgid
P .gk, πgid
P .gkid))
(gk, gkid)
$←−ZBox.Dec(πgid
P ′.sk, pkgid
P , ctxt2, ctxt3, Meta, cgid
P ′)
nonceP
PP
$←−{0, 1}lPP
require πgid
P ′.gkid < gkid
cgid
P ←AEADPP.Enc(k(P ,gid)
PP
, nonceP
PP, (mP
SignUp, mP
SignUp), cgid
P )
πgid
P ′.gkid ←gkid, πgid
P ′.gk ←gk
m(P,gid)
KRot
= {idP , cgid
P , nonceP
PP }P
cgid
P ′, nonceP ′
PP
Leave-L(P, gid, idP ′′):
Leave-P(P ′, gid, idP ′′):
Member
Leave
if idP ′′ = idP : πgid
P ←⊥else πgid
P .GP
−
←idP ′′
if idP ′′ = idP ′: πgid
P ′ ←⊥
Figure 1. Overview of the Zoom protocol and our modified ZoomPAKE protocol. The boxes of the form
added denote the additions from our transformation
for ZoomPAKE, i.e., which are not in current Zoom. Note we do require any additional message flows. The boxes of the form
redundant denote the elements
that become redundant in our PAKE-based design: thus, for ZoomPAKE, we can essentially set pcgid to the empty string, and still obtain the same
guarantees, effectively replacing the old passcode by the new PAKE password. We recall the cryptographic algorithms ZSign and ZBox from the Zoom
library in Appendix B. All communications from and to the server are performed over unilaterally secured TLS connections, authenticating the server.
Possible out-of-band channels in the Group Schedule include, e.g., e-mail, messaging app, phone, calendar invite, or in-person.
2694
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on January 14,2026 at 01:24:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

the state πgid
P ′ . Next, it computes Bindinggid
P ′, which is the
concatenation of the group identifier gid, server-generated
random string mUUID, as well as the party P ′’s identifier
idP ′ = (uid, hid), identity public key stP ′.ipk, and per-
group public key πgid
P ′ .pk. Then, it signs the binding in-
formation Bindinggid
P ′ for a signature σgid
P ′ using ZSign.Sign
algorithm, the identity secret key stP ′.isk, and a context
string ctxt1. The passcode pcgid and the output register
message m(P ′,gid)
Reg
consisting of the per-group public key
πgid
P ′ .pk and the signature σgid
P ′ is sent to the server. The
server adds m(P ′,gid)
Reg
to the “bulletin board” of the group
gid, if the passcode pcgid matches the group schedule
message mgid
GSch received from the group leader, and rejects
it otherwise. The status πgid
P ′ .status of the participant P ′ in
the group gid is set to registered.
• Register-L(P, gid, gs, m): If the party P is the leader of
the group gid, P runs the same execution as a participant
except for setting the status πgid
P .status to joined rather than
registered. Moreover, the leader P initializes the group by
sampling the first group key πgid
P .gk of bit length 256 and
sets the group key index πgid
P .gkid to 1. The identifier idP
is added into the local party set πgid
P .GP.
Participants Join Join = (Join-L, Join-P): The Zoom library
executes this interactive sub-protocol between the leader P
and a participant P ′ only one-pass:
• Join-L(P, idP ′, gid, gs, m): When the leader P notices the
joining request of a new participant P ′, P retrieves an
incoming message m from the server and the group gid’s
“bulletin board” followed by parsing it into: (1) a server-
generated randomness mUUID, (2) the participant P ′’s sign-
up message mP ′
SignUp, and (3) the participant P ′’s register
message m(P ′,gid)
Reg
. Next, the leader P parses the participant
P ′’s identity public key ipk P ′, per-group public key pkgid
P ′ ,
and per-group signature σgid
P ′ from the incoming message,
followed by using them to produce the participant’s binding
information Bindinggid
P ′. If the binding information cannot
pass the verification ZSign.Vrfy upon the participant’s
identity public key ipk P ′, signature σgid
P ′ , and the context
ctxt1, then the leader aborts and undoes the previous
executions. Otherwise, the leader creates a metadata Meta
by concatenating the group identifier gid, server-generated
randomness mUUID, the leader’s user identifier uidP , and
the participant’s user identifier uidP ′. Finally, the leader P
encrypts the current group key πgid
P .gk as well as the index
πgid
P .gkid using the ZBox.Enc encryption algorithm and the
leader P’s per-group secret key πgid
P .sk, the participant P ′’s
per-group public key πgid
P ′ .pk, and auxiliary information
ctxt2, ctxt3, and Meta. The identifier of the participant P ′
and the ZBox ciphertext cgid
P ′ are send to P ′ via the server.
The leader P stores the identifier idP ′ of the participant P ′
into the local party set πgid
P .GP and stores the participant’s
per-group public key pkgid
P ′ .
• Join-P(P ′, idP , gid, gs, m): When a participant P ′, who
registered for a group gid, receives an incoming message
m that includes (1) a server-generated randomness mUUID,
(2) the leader P’s sign-up message mP
SignUp, (3) the leader
P’s register message m(P,gid)
Reg
, and (4) the leader’s reply cgid
P ′,
P ′ first parses the incoming message, creates the leader’s
binding information, and verifies it using ZSign.Vrfy al-
gorithm, similar to the leader’s execution. Then, P ′ also
generates the meta data Meta and uses it together with
its own per-group secret key πgid
P ′ .sk, the leader’s per-
group public key pkgid
P , and the contexts ctxt2 and ctxt3,
to decrypt the ciphertext cgid
P ′. If any error occurs during
above steps, then the participant P ′ aborts and undoes the
previous executions. Otherwise, the participant P ′ stores
the decrypted group key as well as the associated index
into the per-group state πgid
P ′ .gk and πgid
P ′ .gkid, followed by
setting the status πgid
P ′ .status to joined. Moreover, P ′ stores
the leader P’s per-group public key into the state. 4
Key Rotation KeyRotat = (KeyRotat-L, KeyRotat-P): The
execution of this algorithm is distinct according to the caller
P’s role: a leader or a participant. We separate the description
for KeyRotat-L(P, gid, m), where P is the leader of the
group gid, and for KeyRotat-P(P ′, gid, m), where P ′ is a
participant of the group gid.
• KeyRotat-L(P, gid, m): The leader P of the group gid
executes this algorithm without any auxiliary incoming
input, i.e., m = ϵ. The leader P samples a new group key
πgid
P .gk of bit length 256 and increments the corresponding
index πgid
P .gkid by 1. Similar to the encryption during
the Participant Join phase, the leader encrypts the new
group key and index for each party in its local party set
πgid
P .GP except for himself. The output is a ciphertext
bundle that includes the identifiers of each participant and
the customized ciphertexts.
The server is expected to split the ciphertext bundles and
to send each ciphertext to the specified participant.
• KeyRotat-P(P ′, gid, m): The participant P ′ of the group
gid first parses the incoming message m from the server
to an ZBox ciphertext ctgid
P ′. Then, P ′ decrypts the new
group key gk and index gkid as during the Participant
Join phase. If any error occurs in the above steps or the
decrypted group key index is smaller than or equal to the
local one, then the participant P ′ aborts and undoes the
previous executions. Otherwise, P ′ simply overwrites the
local group key as well as the index by the new ones.
Member Leave Leave = (Leave-L, Leave-P): The execution
of this algorithm is distinct according to the caller P’s role:
a leader or a participant. We separate the description for
Leave-L(P, gid, idP ′′), where the P is the leader of the group
gid, and for Leave-P(P ′, gid, idP ′′), where P ′ is a participant
of the group gid.
• Leave-L(P, gid, idP ′′): If idP = idP ′′, i.e., the leader P
wants to leave the group gid, then P erases the per-group
4In practice, Zoom has an independent mechanism for leader P to
synchronize the party set πgid
P .GP with every participant P ′. We omit it
here since, this does not impact Zoom security analysis in our models.
2695
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on January 14,2026 at 01:24:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

instance πgid
P . Otherwise, the leader P notices a party P ′′
leaving the group gid, P simply removes the identifier of
the participant idP ′′ from the local party set πgid
P .GP.
• Leave-P(P ′, gid, idP ′′): If idP ′ = idP ′′, i.e., the participant
P ′ wants to leave the group gid, then P ′ erases the per-
group instance πgid
P ′ . Otherwise, P ′ performs no action.
Instantiations. Underlying the ZSign and ZBox algorithms,
the key derivation function H1 is SHA256 and H2 is HKDF
algorithm (using an empty salt parameter). The length l
underlying ZBox algorithm is 192. The elliptic curve ECDH
underlying Diffie-Hellman key exchange is Curve25519. The
ZSign algorithm relies DS on EdDSA over Ed25519. The
AEAD algorithm is xchacha20poly1305.
5.2. Zoom is Sec-mGKD-pki secure
Below, we investigate the provable security of the Zoom
library. We give the proof sketch in Appendix C.
Theorem 1. Let Π denote the end-to-end Zoom protocol
in Section 5.1. Assume the ϵcoll-res
H1
-collision resistance of
the underlying H1, the ϵeuf-cma
DS
-euf-cma security of DS,
the ϵ(n,m)-frob
AEAD
-(n, m)-FROB security, ϵind$-cca
AEAD -IND$-CCA se-
curity, and ϵcti-cpa
AEAD -cti-cpa security of the AEAD. Assume
the ϵmn-prf-ODH
ECDH,H2
hardness of the mn-prf-ODH problem over
ECDH and function H2. The advantage of any PPT at-
tacker A that breaks the Sec-mGKD-pki security of Π is
bounded by,
AdvSec-mGKD-pki
Π
(A) ≤ϵcoll-res
H1
+ qNEWPARTYϵeuf-cma
DS
+ cmaxRegqNEWGROUP

ϵcti-cpa
AEAD + ϵ(n,m)-frob
AEAD
+ c(nparty−1)
maxReg
(nparty −1)(ϵmn-prf-ODH
ECDH,H2
+ ϵind$-cca
AEAD )

where cmaxParty denotes the maximal number of parties in
every group, cmaxReg denotes the maximal number of register
requests for every group, nparty ≤cmaxParty denotes the
number of parties in the set GP(gid,gkid) for tested group
identifier gid and group key index gkid, and qO denote the
maximal number of the queries to any oracle O.
Note that H1 = SHA256 provides an expected col-
lision resistance of 128 bits [36]. The EUF-CMA secu-
rity of Ed25519 was proven in [37]. The security of
xchacha20poly1305 was discussed in [38]. The maximal
number of parties per meeting is cmaxParty = 1000 [35].
The above theorem shows that the end-to-end Zoom library
provably provides Sec-mGKD-pki security and satisfies all
properties listed in Section 4.3.
Remark
1.
Theorem
1
shows
that
Zoom
achieves
Sec-mGKD-pki independent of the passcode: the passcode
is only used implicitly for access control by honest servers.
5.3. Zoom is not Sec-mGKD-pw secure
Recall that the Sec-mGKD-pki model has two restrictions
in Section 4.3. A natural question arises whether these
restrictions apply to the Sec-mGKD-pki secure Zoom library.
Does Zoom Provide Trusted PKI? The PKI is expected
to “enable users of an insecure public network such as the
Internet to securely and privately exchange data through
the use of a public and a private cryptographic key pair
that is obtained and shared through a trusted authority” [39,
Chapter 1]. As we mentioned in Section 5.1, all public
keys of all parties in the Zoom library are uploaded to an
infrastructure, called “identity management system”, that is
fully controlled by Zoom. The identity management system
distributes the identity public keys. While Zoom claims the
end-to-end security, the goal of which is to protect the secrecy
and integrity of the exchanged content between every two
parties against all third parties including the service providers,
assuming Zoom-controlled PKI trusted is controversial and
doubtful. Considering a malicious server, the server can easily
perform the “machine-in-the-middle” attack by forging the
sign-up messages and impersonate any party towards others.
Although there do exist other group meeting providers,
such as Cisco WebEx and Skype, that employ a third-party
PKI, such as Microsoft Certificate Authority (CA), we stress
that the reliability of PKI is still imperfect. Eckersley and
Burns [40] revealed that 14 CAs had been compromised.
Moreover, a number of attacks that successfully break several
CAs, including DigiNotar, Comodo, GlobalSign, StartSSL,
and TurkTrust, have been publicly noticed [41]. It is prudent
to consider the potential PKI compromise.
Does Zoom Provide (Implicit) Group Member Authentica-
tion? Unfortunately, this does not hold for Zoom. Although
the end-to-end Zoom library asks every leader to create every
new group together with an associated passcode, the leaders
hand over the power of passcode verification to the untrusted
server. By colluding with the untrusted server, an unautho-
rized (and malicious) party can join every group without
the knowledge of any passcode. The consequence is that
nobody in the group (including the leader) can distinguish
authorized participants from the others, in particular, in the
end-to-end setting.
6. A Generic Approach to Sec-mGKD-pw Secu-
rity: Password-Protected Transformation
If we could assume that each group gid has a unique
high-entropy group secret gsgid only shared by the leader
and authorized participants of the group gid, we could design
a trivial construction that meets the Sec-mGKD-pw security.
We can simply use a message authentication code MAC with
the group secret gsgid as key to sign and verify all outgoing
and incoming messages.
However, in practice we use low-entropy passwords
for usability, allowing the passwords to be shared over
various out-of-band channels. For instance, real-world service
providers often support only short passwords5. This restricts
the upper bound of the password entropy and enables
attackers to perform dictionary attacks on the password,
e.g., by brute force guessing.
5For instance, meeting passcodes in Zoom are 1-16 digit numeric lock
codes; the default meeting password in Cisco WebEx has ≥11 characters.
2696
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on January 14,2026 at 01:24:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

In this section, we introduce a generic Password-
Protected (PP) transformation that provably transforms
any Sec-mGKD-pki secure mGKD protocol Π to another
Sec-mGKD-pw secure Π′ = PP[Π, PAKEPP, AEADPP] pro-
tocol by using a password-authenticated key exchange
PAKEPP and an authenticated encryption with associated
data AEADPP. We also prove that the PP transformation pre-
serves Sec-mGKD-pki security, i.e., if Π is Sec-mGKD-pki
secure, so is Π′. In this sense, Π′ satisfies stronger security
Sec-mGKD-pw+, due to Corollary 1. Finally, we illustrate
how to apply our PP transformation to the Zoom library, and
provide efficient instantiations for PAKEPP and AEADPP,
without causing additional message flows.
6.1. The Generic Transformation
The goal of our PP transformation is to ensure that
only the authorized parties that know the group secret can
recover any group key, even if the server is malicious. The
high-level overview of our PP transformation is to (1) let
the leader and every participant run a PAKEPP protocol
upon a new password (included in the group secret) to
produce a symmetric key kPP during the Participant Join
phase, and (2) use the key kPP and an AEADPP scheme to
encrypt/decrypt the original transcript of the mGKD protocol
Π during the Participant Join and Key Rotation phases. Note
that every participant has to first register for a group before
joining it. To avoid introducing additional message flows,
we design our PP transformation to shift the first pass of
PAKEPP to the participant’s Register phase. We give the
formal definition of our PP transformation below.
Definition 7. Let Π = (SignUp, Schedule, Register, Join,
Leave, KeyRotat) denote a multi-stage group key distribution
protocol. Let PAKEPP denote a password-authenticated
key exchange scheme. Let AEADPP denote an authen-
ticated encryption with associated data. We define the
password-protected (PP) transformation PP[Π, PAKEPP,
AEADPP] that outputs Π′ = (SignUp′, Schedule′, Register′,
Join′, Leave′, KeyRotat′) as follows:
Sign Up SignUp′(P): Run mP
SignUp
$←−
SignUp(P) and
stores mP
SignUp locally into the long-term state stP .
Group Schedule Schedule′(P, gid, gs): Parse
(gsgid
Π ,
pw gid) ←gs, run mgid
GSch
$←−Schedule(P, gid, gsgid
Π ), and
output mgid
GSch. The full group secret gs is sent to authorized
parties over out-of-band channels.
Register Register′ = (Register-L′, Register-P′): We define
the sub-algorithms as follows:
• Register-L′(P, gid, gs, m): Parse (gsgid
Π , pw gid) ←gs,
run m′
$←−Register-L(P, gid, gsgid
Π , m), and output m′.
• Register-P′(P, gid, gs, m): First, parse (gsgid
Π , pw gid) ←
gs. Next, run m′
$←−Register-P(P, gid, gsgid
Π , m). Then,
run the first pass of PAKEPP upon the password pw gid
for a ciphertext c(P,gid)
PP
. Finally, output (m′, c(P,gid)
PP
).
Participant Join Join′ = (Join-L′, Join-P′): This
phase
consists of two steps. In either step, if any error occurs
during this algorithm, the caller P aborts and undoes the
executions. In the first step, the leader and the participant
run PAKEPP until PAKEPP outputs a key kPP.
• Join-L′(P, idP ′, gid, gs, m) or Join-P′(P, idP ′, gid, gs,
m): The caller P first parses (gsgid
Π , pw gid) ←gs from
the group secret and other necessary information for
running PAKEPP from the input message m. Then, P
runs the next pass of PAKEPP on pw gid. If the key kPP is
still unavailable, P directly outputs the outgoing message
of PAKEPP. Otherwise, the key kPP is stored into the
per-group state πgid
P .
If the leader and the participant have computed the key
kPP before this algorithm invocation or in the first step in
this invocation, they execute the following second step.
• Join-L′(P, idP ′, gid, gs, m): The leader P first parses
(gsgid
Π , pw gid) ←gs from the group secret. If the origi-
nal Join-L algorithm needs any incoming information
from the participant P ′, then the leader P extracts
an AEADPP ciphertext and an AEADPP nonce from
the input m. Next, the leader P decrypts the AEADPP
ciphertext using the key kPP, the AEADPP nonce, and an
associated data consisting of both parties’ sign-up mes-
sages, and obtains a message m1. Then, the leader P ex-
tracts other necessary information m2 from the input m
for running m′
$←−Join-L(P, idP ′, gid, gsgid
Π , m1 ∥m2).
After that, P encrypts m′ using the AEADPP key kPP,
a random nonce, and an associated data consisting of
both parties’ sign-up messages. Finally, the leader P
outputs the AEADPP ciphertext and nonce.
• Join-P′(P, idP ′, gid, gs, m): The participant P
first
parses (gsgid
Π , pw gid) ←gs from the group secret.
If the original Join-P algorithm needs any incoming
information from the leader P ′, then the participant
P extracts an AEADPP ciphertext and an AEADPP
nonce from the input m. Next, the participant P de-
crypts the AEADPP ciphertext using the key kPP, the
AEADPP nonce, and an associated data consisting of
both parties’ sign-up messages, and obtains a mes-
sage m1. Then, the participant P extracts other nec-
essary information m2 from the input m for running
m′
$←−Join-P(P, idP ′, gid, gsgid
Π , m1 ∥m2). After that,
P encrypts m′ using the AEADPP key kPP, a random
nonce, and an associated data consisting of both parties’
sign-up messages. Finally, the participant P outputs the
AEADPP ciphertext and nonce.
Member Leave Leave′ = (Leave-L′, Leave-P′): These
al-
gorithms are identical to the original Leave = (Leave-L,
Leave-P). Note that if a per-group state is erased, then the
stored key kPP must also be erased.
Key Rotation KeyRotat′ = (KeyRotat-L′, KeyRotat-P′):
We define the sub-algorithms as follows. If any error
occurs during the above execution, then the caller aborts
and undoes the executions in this invocation.
• KeyRotat-L′(P, gid, m): The leader P first runs the
original mKRot
$←−KeyRotat-L(P, gid, m). Then, the
leader P extracts the portion cP in mKRot that is specific
to every participant P in the group gid, followed by
encrypting it using the stored corresponding AEADPP
2697
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on January 14,2026 at 01:24:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

key kPP, a random nonce, and an associated data
consisting of both parties’ sign-up messages as in the
Participant Join phase. Finally, the leader P outputs the
AEADPP ciphertext and nonce for every participant P
in the group gid.
• KeyRotat-P′(P, gid, m): The participant P first extracts
an AEADPP ciphertext and an AEADPP nonce from
the input m. Next, P recovers a message m1 from
the AEADPP ciphertext using the stored corresponding
AEADPP key kPP, the AEADPP nonce, and an associated
data consisting of both parties’ sign-up messages as
in the Participant Join phase. Then, the participant P
extracts other necessary information m2 from the input
m for running mKRot
$←−KeyRotat-P(P, gid, m1 ∥m2)
and outputting mKRot.
The theorem below shows that our PP transforma-
tion provably turns a Sec-mGKD-pki secure Π into a
Sec-mGKD-pw secure Π′ = PP[Π, PAKEPP, AEADPP] pro-
tocol. We provide a proof sketch in Appendix D.
Theorem 2. Let Π denote a mGKD protocol. Let PAKEPP
denote a password-authenticated key exchange scheme. Let
AEADPP denote an authenticated encryption with associ-
ated data scheme. Let Π′ = PP[Π, PAKEPP, AEADPP]. Let
D = DΠ × Dpw denote the distribution of the group secrets.
Assume the ϵw-PAKE
PAKEPP,Dpw -w-PAKE security of the underlying
PAKEPP, the ϵd-frob
AEADPP-d-FROB security, ϵind$-cca
AEADPP-IND$-CCA
security, and ϵcti-cpa
AEADPP-cti-cpa security of AEADPP. If there
exists any PPT attacker A that breaks the Sec-mGKD-pw
security of Π′, then there must exist a PPT attacker B that
breaks the Sec-mGKD-pki security of Π such that
AdvSec-mGKD-pw
Π′
(A) ≤qNEWGROUP

ϵw-PAKE
PAKEPP,Dpw + ϵd-frob
AEADPP
+ cmaxReg(ϵcti-cpa
AEADPP + ϵind$-cca
AEADPP) + AdvSec-mGKD-pki
Π
(B)

where cmaxReg denotes the maximal number of register
requests for every group and qO denotes the maximal number
of queries to any oracle O.
Below, we further show that our PP transformation
preserves the Sec-mGKD-pki security of the original mGKD
protocol Π. We provide a proof sketch in Appendix E.
Theorem 3. Let Π denote a mGKD protocol. Let PAKEPP
denote a password-authenticated key exchange scheme. Let
AEADPP denote an authenticated encryption with associated
data. Let Π′ = PP[Π, PAKEPP, AEADPP]. If there exists any
PPT attacker A that breaks the Sec-mGKD-pki security of
Π′, then there exists another PPT attacker B that breaks
the Sec-mGKD-pki security of Π such that
AdvSec-mGKD-pki
Π′
(A) ≤AdvSec-mGKD-pki
Π
(B)
Combining these two theorems, our PP transformation
provably endows a Sec-mGKD-pki secure mGKD protocol
Π with Sec-mGKD-pw security while preserving the original
one, i.e., Sec-mGKD-pw+ security due to Corollary 1.
6.2. Application to the Zoom Library
Then, we illustrate how to apply our PP transformation
to the Zoom library in Section 5.1 by using a 2-pass PAKEPP
scheme and an AEADPP scheme. We call the transformed
version ZoomPAKE and show the resulting protocol in Fig-
ure 1, where we use boxes to indicate the modifications. Note
that Zoom achieves Sec-mGKD-pki security without relying
on passcodes, as stated in Remark 1. The passcodes for the
server’s access control underlying Zoom are redundant in
the stronger threat model, and can therefore be set to the
empty string without impacting Sec-mGKD-pw security. In
the following we assume that the passcode is set to the empty
string, which amounts to replacing the passcode with the
new PAKE password computations.
The Sign Up and Member Leave phases are unchanged.
ZoomPAKE Group Schedule Phase: This algorithm is nearly
identical to the original one except that the leader sends the
new password to authorized parties over an out-of-band
channel instead of sending the passcode to the server.
ZoomPAKE Register Phase: Similar to the previous, parties
no longer need to send the passcode to the server. Then,
each participant P ′ runs the first pass of PAKEPP on the
password pw gid for a ciphertext c(P ′,gid)
PP,1
and outputs both
the original outgoing messages and c(P ′,gid)
PP,1
.
ZoomPAKE Participant Join Phase: Our PP transformation
modifies both leaders’ and participants’ execution.
From the leader P’s side, P first parses an additional
PAKEPP ciphertext c(P ′,gid)
PP,1
from the input, and uses the
group secret as the password pw gid. Next, the leader P runs
the second pass of PAKEPP with necessary input for a key
k(P ′,gid)
PP
and a ciphertext c(P ′,gid)
PP,2
. Then, P stores k(P ′,gid)
PP
and samples a random nonce of length lPP uniformly at
random. After that, P executes the original computation.
When the ZBox encryption cgid
P ′ is derived, the leader P
further re-encrypts it using the key k(P ′,gid)
PP
, the random
nonce nonceP ′
PP, and the associated data consisting both
parties’ sign-up messages. The PAKEPP ciphertext c(P ′,gid)
PP,2
and the AEADPP ciphertext are output.
From the participant P ′’s side, P ′ first parses two more
components from the input messages: a PAKEPP ciphertext
c(P ′,gid)
PP,2
and a nonce nonceP ′
PP. The participant P ′ also uses
the group secret gs as the password pw gid. Note that the
original ciphertext cgid
P ′ is not the one of ZBox anymore
but the one of AEADPP. Next, P ′ runs PAKEPP for a key
k(P ′,gid)
PP
and decrypts the AEADPP ciphertext cgid
P ′ using the
key k(P ′,gid)
PP
, the nonce nonceP ′
PP, and the associated data
consisting of the leader P’s and the participant P ′’s sign-
up messages, for the original ZBox ciphertext. If any error
occurs during this step, the participant P ′ simply aborts.
Otherwise, the key k(P ′,gid)
PP
is stored locally. The remaining
computation of P ′ remains the same.
ZoomPAKE Key Rotation Join Phase: The key rotation
phase is very similar to the original one. The only difference
2698
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on January 14,2026 at 01:24:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

from the leader P’s side is that P has to encrypt the ZBox
ciphertext using AEADPP for every participant P in his
local party set, i.e., idP ∈πgid
P .GP and idP ̸= idP , using
the stored key k(P ,gid)
PP
, output by PAKEPP, a independently
random nonce nonceP
PP, the associated data consisting of the
sign-up messages of P and P. The output is a ciphertext
bundle that includes AEADPP ciphertexts rather than the
original ZBox ciphertexts.
When receiving the AEADPP ciphertext, a participant
P ′ first decrypts it by using the stored key k(P ′,gid) for
a ZBox ciphertext cgid
P ′. Then, P ′ simply runs the original
KeyRotat-P algorithm using the new ciphertext cgid
P ′.
Instantiation Suggestions. We suggest to instantiate the
underlying PAKEPP with CPace [25] or SPAKE2 [27] for
the w-PAKE security, see Section A.3. The AEADPP can
be instantiated with CAU-C4 or CAU-SIV-C4 [42] for the
d-FROB security, see Section A.1.
7. Technical Summary
In this paper, we propose a new mGKD protocol that cap-
tures the behaviors of the Zoom library and three associated
security models: the basic Sec-mGKD-pki model considers
restricted end-to-end encrypted security assuming the exis-
tence of a trusted PKI; the Sec-mGKD-pw model captures
full end-to-end encrypted security without any trusted PKI;
and the Sec-mGKD-pw+ that combines the Sec-mGKD-pki
and Sec-mGKD-pw models. We proved that the Zoom library
version 4.0 satisfies the basic Sec-mGKD-pki, but does not
provide end-to-end Sec-mGKD-pw security.
To improve the Sec-mGKD-pki security of any mGKD
protocol (including the Zoom library) to the Sec-mGKD-pw+
security, we propose a novel PP transformation that makes
use of the group secret transmitted over out-of-band channels
and cryptographic primitives PAKE and AEAD. Intuitively,
to get the group keys that encrypts the real messages in the
group chat, every participant must first additionally execute
PAKE with the group leader for a shared key. This shared
key is peer-wise independent: the group leader knows all
shared keys and the participant only knows the one that it
produces. Whenever the leader needs to rotate and distribute
a new group key, the leader must additionally “wrap” the
original ciphertext, i.e., encrypt it using the shared keys
and AEAD, and every participant needs to first unwrap the
original ciphertext in order to recover the real group keys.
In particular, the application of our PP transform to the
Zoom library is very efficient in terms of the communication
rounds, as it does not cause any additional round trip time.
References
[1]
“How many people use Zoom?” 2022, https://www.zippia.com/advice/
zoom-meeting-statistics/, (Accessed Feb 2023).
[2]
T. Isobe and R. Ito, “Security analysis of end-to-end encryption for
Zoom meetings,” IEEE Access, vol. 9, pp. 90 677–90 689, 2021.
[3]
——, “Security Analysis of End-to-End Encryption for Zoom Meet-
ings,” Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2021/486, 2021, https:
//eprint.iacr.org/2021/486.
[4]
C. Cremers, E. Ronen, and M. Zhao, “Multi-stage group key
distribution and pakes: Securing zoom groups against malicious
servers without new security elements,” Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Paper 2023/1243, 2023, https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1243. [Online].
Available: https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1243
[5]
M. J. Moyer, J. R. Rao, and P. Rohatgi, “A survey of security issues
in multicast communications,” IEEE network, vol. 13, no. 6, 1999.
[6]
S. Rafaeli and D. Hutchison, “A Survey of Key Management for
Secure Group Communication,” ACM Comput. Surv., vol. 35, no. 3,
p. 309–329, sep 2003, https://doi.org/10.1145/937503.937506.
[7]
P. S. Kruus, “A survey of multicast security issues and architectures,”
NAVAL RESEARCH LAB WASHINGTON DC, Tech. Rep., 1998.
[8]
C. Boyd, A. Mathuria, and D. Stebila, Protocols for Authentication
and Key Establishment, Second Edition, ser. Information Security and
Cryptography.
Springer, 2020.
[9]
A. J. Menezes, P. C. Van Oorschot, and S. A. Vanstone, Handbook of
applied cryptography.
CRC press, 2018.
[10] B. Poettering, P. R¨osler, J. Schwenk, and D. Stebila, “SoK: Game-
based Security Models for Group Key Exchange,” Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Paper 2021/305, 2021, https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/305.
[11] H. Harney and C. Muckenhirn. Group Key Management Protocol
(GKMP) Specification. https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2093.
[12] ——. Group Key Management Protocol (GKMP) Architecture. https:
//www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2094.
[13] C. K. Wong, M. Gouda, and S. S. Lam, “Secure group communications
using key graphs,” IEEE/ACM transactions on networking, vol. 8,
no. 1, pp. 16–30, 2000.
[14] A. T. Sherman and D. A. McGrew, “Key establishment in large
dynamic groups using one-way function trees,” IEEE transactions on
Software Engineering, vol. 29, no. 5, pp. 444–458, 2003.
[15] J. Goshi and R. E. Ladner, “Algorithms for dynamic multicast
key distribution trees,” in Proceedings of the twenty-second annual
symposium on Principles of distributed computing, 2003, pp. 243–251.
[16] L. Xu and C. Huang, “Computation-efficient multicast key distribution,”
IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol. 19, no. 5,
pp. 577–587, 2008.
[17] H. Lu, “A novel high-order tree for secure multicast key management,”
IEEE Transactions on Computers, vol. 54, no. 2, pp. 214–224, 2005.
[18] Z. Liu, Y. Lai, X. Ren, and S. Bu, “An efficient LKH tree balancing
algorithm for group key management,” in 2012 International Confer-
ence on Control Engineering and Communication Technology.
IEEE,
2012, pp. 1003–1005.
[19] A. Perrig, “Efficient collaborative key management protocols for secure
autonomous group communication,” in International Workshop on
Cryptographic Techniques and E-Commerce (CrypTEC’99), 1999.
[20] Y. Kim, A. Perrig, and G. Tsudik, “Simple and fault-tolerant key
agreement for dynamic collaborative groups,” in Proceedings of the
7th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security,
2000, pp. 235–244.
[21] K. Cohn-Gordon, C. Cremers, L. Garratt, J. Millican, and K. Milner,
“On Ends-to-Ends Encryption: Asynchronous group messaging with
strong security guarantees,” in Proceedings of the 2018 ACM SIGSAC
Conference on Computer and Communications Security, 2018.
[22] K. Klein, G. Pascual-Perez, M. Walter, C. Kamath, M. Capretto,
M. Cueto, I. Markov, M. Yeo, J. Alwen, and K. Pietrzak, “Keep the
dirt: tainted treekem, adaptively and actively secure continuous group
key agreement,” in 2021 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy
(SP).
IEEE, 2021, pp. 268–284.
[23] J. Alwen, S. Coretti, Y. Dodis, and Y. Tselekounis, “Security analysis
and improvements for the IETF MLS standard for group messaging,”
in Advances in Cryptology–CRYPTO 2020: 40th Annual International
Cryptology Conference, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August, 2020,
Proceedings, Part I.
Springer, 2020, pp. 248–277.
2699
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on January 14,2026 at 01:24:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

[24] R. Barnes, B. Beurdouche, R. Robert, J. Millican, E. Omara, and
K. Cohn-Gordon. The Messaging Layer Security (MLS) Protocol.
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-mls-protocol-20.
[25] B. Haase and B. Labrique, “AuCPace: Efficient verifier-based PAKE
protocol tailored for the IIoT,” IACR Transactions on Cryptographic
Hardware and Embedded Systems, vol. 2019, no. 2, p. 1–48, Feb.
2019, https://tches.iacr.org/index.php/TCHES/article/view/7384.
[26] M. Abdalla, B. Haase, and J. Hesse, “Security analysis of CPace,”
in Advances in Cryptology–ASIACRYPT 2021: 27th International
Conference on the Theory and Application of Cryptology and Infor-
mation Security, Singapore, December 6–10, 2021, Proceedings, Part
IV.
Springer, 2021, pp. 711–741.
[27] M. Abdalla and D. Pointcheval, “Simple password-based encrypted
key exchange protocols,” in Topics in Cryptology–CT-RSA 2005: The
Cryptographers’ Track at the RSA Conference 2005, San Francisco,
CA, USA, February, 2005. Proceedings.
Springer, 2005, pp. 191–208.
[28] M. Abdalla and M. Barbosa, “Perfect Forward Security of SPAKE2,”
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2019/1194, 2019, https://eprint.iacr.
org/2019/1194.
[29] M. Abdalla, M. Barbosa, T. Bradley, S. Jarecki, J. Katz, and
J. Xu, “Universally Composable Relaxed Password Authenticated
Key Exchange,” Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2020/320, 2020,
https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/320.
[30] E. Bresson, O. Chevassut, and D. Pointcheval, “Group Diffie-Hellman
key exchange secure against dictionary attacks,” in Advances in
Cryptology—ASIACRYPT 2002: 8th International Conference on the
Theory and Application of Cryptology and Information Security
Queenstown, New Zealand, December 1–5, 2002 Proceedings 8.
Springer, 2002, pp. 497–514.
[31] M. Abdalla, E. Bresson, O. Chevassut, and D. Pointcheval, “Password-
based group key exchange in a constant number of rounds,” in Public
Key Cryptography-PKC 2006: 9th International Conference on Theory
and Practice in Public-Key Cryptography, New York, NY, USA, April
24-26, 2006. Proceedings 9.
Springer, 2006, pp. 427–442.
[32] M. Abdalla and D. Pointcheval, “A scalable password-based group
key exchange protocol in the standard model,” in ASIACRYPT, vol.
4284.
Springer, 2006, pp. 332–347.
[33] M. Abdalla, J.-M. Bohli, M. I. G. Vasco, and R. Steinwandt, “(Pass-
word) authenticated key establishment: From 2-party to group,” in
Theory of Cryptography: 4th Theory of Cryptography Conference,
TCC 2007, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, February 21-24, 2007.
Proceedings 4.
Springer, 2007, pp. 499–514.
[34] Y. Dodis, D. Jost, B. Kesavan, and A. Marcedone, “End-to-End
Encrypted Zoom Meetings: Proving Security and Strengthening
Liveness,” in Advances in Cryptology–EUROCRYPT 2023: 42nd
Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applications
of Cryptographic Techniques, Lyon, France, Proceedings.
Springer-
Verlag, 2023.
[35] J. Blum, S. Booth, B. Chen, O. Gal, M. Krohn, J. Len, K. Lyons,
A. Marcedone, M. Maxim, M. E. Mou, A. Namavari, J. O’Connor,
S. Rien, M. Steele, M. Green, L. Kissner, and A. Stamos.
Zoom end-to-end encryption whitepaper. https://github.com/zoom/
zoom-e2e-whitepaper Version 4.0 (Released on 18.11.2022).
[36] Q. Dang, Recommendation for Applications Using Approved Hash
Algorithms.
Special Publication (NIST SP), National Institute of
Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD, 2012-08-24 2012, https:
//tsapps.nist.gov/publication/get pdf.cfm?pub id=911479 (Accessed
Feb 2023).
[37] J. Brendel, C. Cremers, D. Jackson, and M. Zhao, “The provable
security of Ed25519: theory and practice,” in 2021 IEEE Symposium
on Security and Privacy (SP).
IEEE, 2021, pp. 1659–1676.
[38] S.
Arciszewski,
“XChaCha:
eXtended-nonce
ChaCha
and
AEAD XChaCha20 Poly1305,” Internet Engineering Task Force,
Internet-Draft draft-irtf-cfrg-xchacha-03, Jan. 2020, work in Progress:
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-irtf-cfrg-xchacha/03/.
[39] J. R. Vacca, Public key infrastructure: building trusted applications
and Web services.
Auerbach Publications, 2004.
[40] P. Eckersley and J. Burns, “The (Decentralized) SSL Observatory,”
in 20th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 11).
San
Francisco, CA: USENIX Association, Aug. 2011, https://www.usenix.
org/conference/usenix-security-11/decentralized-ssl-observatory.
[41] J.
Stapleton,
“PKI
Under
Attack,”
ISSA,
vol.
11,
no.
3,
2013, https://cdn.ymaws.com/www.members.issa.org/resource/resmgr/
JournalPDFs/PKI Under Attack ISSA0313.pdf.
[42] M. Bellare and V. T. Hoang, “Efficient schemes for committing
authenticated encryption,” in Advances in Cryptology–EUROCRYPT
2022: 41st Annual International Conference on the Theory and
Applications of Cryptographic Techniques, Trondheim, Norway, May
30–June 3, 2022, Proceedings, Part II.
Springer, 2022, pp. 845–875.
[43] P. Rogaway, “Authenticated-Encryption with Associated-Data,” in
Proceedings of the 9th ACM Conference on Computer and Communi-
cations Security, ser. CCS ’02, 2002, p. 98–107.
[44] G. Barwell, D. Page, and M. Stam, “Rogue decryption failures: Rec-
onciling AE robustness notions,” in Cryptography and Coding: 15th
IMA International Conference, IMACC 2015, Oxford, UK, December
15-17, 2015. Proceedings 15.
Springer, 2015, pp. 94–111.
[45] J. Brendel, M. Fischlin, F. G¨unther, and C. Janson, “PRF-ODH:
Relations, instantiations, and impossibility results,” in Advances in
Cryptology–CRYPTO 2017: 37th Annual International Cryptology
Conference, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August 20–24, 2017, Proceed-
ings, Part III 37.
Springer, 2017, pp. 651–681.
[46] D. J. Bernstein, T. Lange, and P. Schwabe. NaCl: Networking and
Cryptography library. https://nacl.cr.yp.to/, (Accessed Jan 2023).
[47] F. Denis. The Sodium cryptography library. https://doc.libsodium.org/,
(Accessed Jan 2023).
Appendix A.
Preliminaries
Due to the page limit, we only introduce novel and
customized security notions here and recall other notions in
our full version [4].
A.1. Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data
Definition 8 ( [43]). Let Key, Nonce, Data, Message,
Ciphertext respectively denote the space of keys, nonces,
associated data, messages, and ciphertexts. An authenti-
cated encryption with associated data scheme AEAD =
(AEAD.Enc, AEAD.Dec) is a tuple of algorithms where
• AEAD.Enc the encryption algorithm inputs a key k ∈Key,
a nonce nonce ∈Nonce, an associated data D ∈Data, and
a message m and (deterministically) outputs a ciphertext
c, i.e., c ←AEAD.Enc(k, nonce, D, m).
• AEAD.Dec the decryption algorithm inputs a key k ∈Key,
a nonce nonce ∈Nonce, an associated data D ∈Data, and
a ciphertext c ∈Ciphertext and deterministically outputs
a message m ∈Message ∪{⊥}, i.e., m ←AEAD.Dec(k,
nonce, D, c).
Definition 9. We say an AEAD is ϵ-ind$-cca (resp. cti-cpa)
secure, if the below defined advantage of any PPT attacker
A against ExprIND$-CCA
AEAD
(resp. ExprCTI-CPA
AEAD
) experiment in
Figure 2 is bounded by,
AdvIND$-CCA
AEAD
:= | Pr[ExprIND$-CCA
AEAD
(A) = 1] −1
2| ≤ϵ
2700
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on January 14,2026 at 01:24:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

AdvCTI-CPA
AEAD
:= Pr[ExprCTI-CPA
AEAD
(A) = 1] ≤ϵ
Below,
we
define
two
customized
notions.
The
(n, m)-frob notion ensures that each ciphertext cannot be
decrypted two distinct messages upon different nonces.
The d-frob security ensures that each ciphertext cannot be
decrypted to two valid messages upon different associated
data. They both are implied by the CMT-4 security in [42].
Definition 10. We say an AEAD has ϵ-(n, m)-frob (resp.
d-frob) secure, if the below defined advantage of any PPT
attacker A against Expr(n,m)-FROB
AEAD
(resp. Exprd-FROB
AEAD ) exper-
iment in Figure 3 is bounded by,
Adv(n,m)-FROB
AEAD
:= Pr[Expr(n,m)-FROB
AEAD
(A) = 1] ≤ϵ
Advd-FROB
AEAD
:= Pr[Exprd-FROB
AEAD (A) = 1] ≤ϵ
A.2. lr-prf-ODH Assumption
We recall the generic lr-prf-ODH definition in [45].
Definition 11. Let ECDH denote a cyclic group G with
order q over an elliptic curve EC with a generator g. Let
H : G × {0, 1}⋆→{0, 1}lH denote a function. We define a
generic security notion lr-prf-ODH which is parameterized
by l, r ∈{n, s, m} indicating how often the attacker is allowed
to query a certain “left” resp. “right” oracle (ODHu resp.
ODHv) where n indicates that no query is allowed, s that a
single query is allowed, and m that multiple (polynomially
many) queries are allowed to the respective side. Consider the
following security game Exprlr-prf-ODH
ECDH,H
between a challenger
C and a PPT attacker A.
1) The challenger C samples u
$←−Zq and provides G, g, and
gu to the attacker A.
2) If l = m, A can issue arbitrarily many queries to the
following oracle ODHu.
ODHu oracle. On a query of the form (S, x), C first checks
if S /∈G and returns ⊥if this is the case. Otherwise, it
computes y ←H(Su, x) and returns y.
3) Eventually, A issues a challenge query x⋆. On this query,
C samples v
$←−Zq and a bit b
$←−{0, 1} uniformly at
random. It then computes y⋆
0 = H(guv, x⋆) and samples
y⋆
q
$←−{0, 1}lH uniformly at random. The challenger returns
(gv, y⋆
b) to A.
4) Next, A may issue (arbitrarily interleaved) queries to the
following oracles ODHu and ODHv (depending on l and
r).
ODHu oracle. The attacker A may ask no (l = n), a single
(l = s), or arbitrarily many (l = m) queries to this oracle.
On a query of the form (S, x), the challenger first checks
if S /∈G or (S, x) = (gv, x⋆) and returns ⊥if this is the
case. Otherwise, it computes y ←H(Su, x) and returns
y.
ODHv oracle. The attacker A may ask no (r = n), a
single (r = s), or arbitrarily many (r = m) queries to
this oracle. On a query of the form (T, x), the challenger
first checks if T /∈G or (T, x) = (gu, x⋆) and returns ⊥
if this is the case. Otherwise, it computes y ←H(T v, x)
and returns y.
5) At some point, A stops and outputs a guess b′ ∈{0, 1}.
We say that the attacker wins the lr-prf-ODH game if
b′ = b. We say the lr-prf-ODH problem is ϵ-hard over ECDH
and H, if the advantage of any PPT attacker A that wins
above Exprlr-prf-ODH
ECDH,H
experiment is bounded by ϵ.
In this paper, we only need the mn-prf-ODH assumption.
A.3. Password-Authenticated Key Exchange
The password-authenticated key exchange (PAKE) pro-
tocols allow two parties to establish a high-entropy key over
an insecure channel using a shared low-entropy password.
Below, we first define a weak security (w-PAKE) security
model against a PAKE protocol. This model is weaker
than and therefore implied by the security model defined
in [26], [28], [29]. Thus, some modern and widely used
PAKE schemes, including CPace [25] or SPAKE2 [27] that
are respectively proven secure in [26] and [28], [29], are
provably secure in this w-PAKE model.
Protocol Members. This weak semantic security model only
considers the two-party setting. I.e., the PAKE protocol has
only two members: either an initiator I or a responder R.
The initiator I indeed captures the behaviors of (all)
participants in each group gid in our mGKD protocol. The
responder R indeed captures the behaviors of the (unique)
leader in each group gid in our mGKD protocol.
Long-Lived Keys / Passwords. The initiator I and the
responder R hold the same password pw, which is sampled
from a distribution D. In many literature, the password is
also called the “long-lived key”.
Protocol Execution. The interaction between an attacker A
and the protocol members occurs only via oracle queries,
which model the attacker capabilities in a real attack. During
the execution, the attacker may create several instances of
a member. We consider the concurrent model, i.e., several
instances may be active at any given time. Let U id denote
the instance with identifier id of a member U. Let b ∈{0, 1}
be a bit chosen uniformly at random. The attacker A can
query following three oracles:
• SENDPAKE(U id, m): This query models an active attack,
in which the adversary may tamper with the message being
sent over the public channel. The output of this query is
the message that the member instance U id would generate
upon receipt of message m.
• COMPROMISEPAKE(U id): This query models the misuse
of session keys by a member. If a session key is not defined
for instance U id or if a TESTPAKE query was asked to
either U id or to its partner, then return ⊥. Otherwise, return
the session key held by the instance U id.
• TESTPAKE(U id): This query tries to capture the adver-
sary’s ability to tell apart a real session key from a random
one. If no session key for instance U id is defined or U id is
not fresh (which is defined below), then return the undefined
2701
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on January 14,2026 at 01:24:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

ExprIND$-CCA
AEAD
:
1
b
$
←−{0, 1}
2
LENC, LDEC ←∅
3
k
$
←−K
4
b′
$
←−AENC,DEC()
5
return Jb = b′K
ENC(nonce, D, m):
6
require (nonce, , , ) /∈LENC
7
require (nonce, D, m, ) /∈LDEC
8
if b = 0
9
c ←AEAD.Enc(k, nonce, D, m)
10
else c
$
←−{0, 1}ℓ(|m|)
11
LENC
+
←(nonce, D, m, c)
12
return c
DEC(nonce, D, c):
13
require (nonce, D, , c) /∈LENC
14
m ←AEAD.Dec(k, nonce, D, c)
15
if m ̸= ⊥
16
LDEC
+
←(nonce, D, m, c)
17
return m
ExprCTI-CPA
AEAD
:
1
Lc ←∅, k
$
←−K
2
(nonce, D, c)
$
←−AENC()
3
require c /∈Lc
4
return JAEAD.Dec(k, nonce, D, c) ̸= ⊥K
ENC(nonce, D, m):
5
c ←AEAD.Enc(k, nonce, D, m)
6
Lc ←Lc ∪{c}
7
return c
Figure 2. IND$-CCA security [44] and CTI-CPA security [43] for an AEAD scheme. The functi on ℓis a function that inputs the message length and
outputs the corresponding ciphertext length.
Expr(n,m)-FROB
AEAD
:
1
(c, (k1, nonce1, D1), (k2, nonce2, D2))
$
←−A()
2
require ⊥/∈{c, k1, nonce1, D1, k2, nonce2, D2}
3
m1 ←AEAD.Dec(k, nonce1, D, c)
4
m2 ←AEAD.Dec(k, nonce2, D, c)
5
require (nonce1, m1) ̸= (nonce2, m2)
6
return Jm1 ̸= ⊥K and Jm2 ̸= ⊥K
Exprd-FROB
AEAD :
1
(c, (k1, nonce1, D1), (k2, nonce2, D2))
$
←−A()
2
require ⊥/∈{c, k1, nonce1, D1, k2, nonce2, D2}
3
m1 ←AEAD.Dec(k, nonce1, D, c)
4
m2 ←AEAD.Dec(k, nonce2, D, c)
5
require D1 ̸= D2
6
return Jm1 ̸= ⊥K and Jm2 ̸= ⊥K
Figure 3. (n, m)-FROB security and d-FROB security for an AEAD scheme.
symbol ⊥. Otherwise, return the session key for instance
U id if b = 1 or a random key of the same size if b = 0.
Notation. We say an instance U id opened if a query
COMPROMISEPAKE(U id) has been made by the attacker.
We say an instance U id is unopened if it is not opened. We
say an instance U id tested if a query TESTPAKE(U id) has
been made by the attacker. We say an instance U id is untested
if it is not tested. We say an instance U id has accepted if it
goes into an accept mode after receiving the last expected
protocol message.
Session Identifiers and Partnering. We define the session
identifiers (sid) as the transcript of the conversation between
the initiator and the responder instances before acceptance.
We say two instances Iid1 and Rid2 to be partners if the
following conditions are met:
(a) Both Iid1 and Rid2 accept, and
(b) Both Iid1 and Rid2 share the same identifiers sid.
Freshness. The notion of freshness is defined to avoid
cases in which adversary can trivially break the security
of the scheme. The goal is to only allow the attacker to
ask TESTPAKE queries to fresh oracle instances. More
specifically, we say an instance U id is fresh if it has accepted
and if both U id and its partner are unopened and untested.
Semantic Security. Consider an execution of the above
experiment for an attacker A against a PAKE protocol Π.
The attacker A wins the experiment if and only if A guesses
b′ = b, where b is the hidden bit used by the TESTPAKE
oracle. The advantage of A breaking the weak security of
Π is defined as
Advw-PAKE
Π,D
(A) := | Pr[A wins] −1
2|
We say that Π is ϵw-PAKE
PAKE,D-w-PAKE secure if for any PPT
attackers A it always holds that
Advw-PAKE
Π,D
(A) ≤ϵw-PAKE
Π,D
Appendix B.
Cryptographic Algorithms
The Zoom library makes use of the interface and imple-
mentation of two building blocks in the NaCl [46]-inspired
libsodium library [47]: Signing and Authenticated Public-Key
Encryption (aka. Box).
ZSign.KG:
7
(pkZSign, skZSign)
$
←−DS.KG
8
return (pkZSign, skZSign)
ZSign.Vrfy(pkZSign, σ, ctxt, m):
9
m′ ←H1(ctxt) ∥H1(m)
10
return DS.Vrfy(pkZSign, σ, m′)
ZSign.Sign(skZSign, ctxt, m):
11
m′ ←H1(ctxt) ∥H1(m)
12
σ ←DS.Sign(skZSign, m′)
13
return σ
Figure 4. The Zoom-Signing algorithm ZSign. Zoom instantiates H1 with
SHA256 and DS with EdDSA over Ed25519.
Zoom
Signing
Algorithm:
The
construction
of
the
Zoom Signing algorithm ZSign = (ZSign.KG, ZSign.Sign,
ZSign.Vrfy) is depicted in Figure 4.
• The key generation algorithm ZSign.KG simply generates
and outputs a DS key pair.
• The signing algorithm ZSign.Sign inputs a secret key
skZSign, a context ctxt, and a message m. The ZSign.Sign
first computes the hash function H1 over respective context
ctxt and message m, followed by concatenating them. Then,
the ZSign.Sign computes and outputs the signature of the
concatenation using DS upon the input secret key skZSign.
• The verification ZSign.Vrfy algorithm inputs a public key
pkZSign, a signature σ, a context ctxt, and a message m.
This ZSign.Vrfy algorithm simply computes the concate-
nation as in the signing algorithm and outputs the DS
verification result DS.Vrfy upon the public key pkZSign, the
signature σ, and the concatenation.
Zoom Authenticated Public-Key Encryption (aka. Box)
2702
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on January 14,2026 at 01:24:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

ZBox.KG:
1
(pkZBox, skZBox)
$
←−ECDH
2
return (pkZBox, skZBox)
ZBox.Enc(skS
ZBox, pkR
ZBox, ctxtH2, ctxtCipher, Meta, m):
3
nonce
$
←−{0, 1}l
4
K′ ←skS
ZBox · pkR
ZBox
5
K ←H2(K′, ctxtH2)
6
D ←H1(ctxtCipher) ∥H1(Meta)
7
c′ ←AEAD.Enc(K, nonce, D, m)
8
c ←(c′, nonce)
9
return c
ZBox.Dec(skR
ZBox, pkS
ZBox, ctxtH2, ctxtCipher, Meta, c):
10
Parse (c′, nonce) ←c
11
K′ ←skR
ZBox · pkS
ZBox
12
K ←H2(K′, ctxtH2)
13
D ←H1(ctxtCipher) ∥H1(Meta)
14
m ←AEAD.Dec(K, nonce, D, c′)
15
require m ̸= ⊥
16
return m
Figure 5. The Zoom-Box algorithm ZBox. We have that l = 192, and the underlying function H1 denotes SHA256. The function H2 denotes HKDF (using
an empty salt parameter). ECDH is performed on Curve25519. “·” denotes scalar multiplication. The AEAD is instantiated with xchacha20poly1305.
Algorithm: The Zoom Box algorithm ZBox = (ZBox.KG,
ZBox.Enc, ZBox.Dec) is depicted in Figure 5.
• The key generation algorithm ZBox.KG samples and out-
puts a Diffie-Hellman key pair over an elliptic curve ECDH.
• The encryption algorithm ZBox.Enc takes as inputs a
sender’s secret key skS
ZBox, a receiver’s public key pkR
ZBox,
two contexts ctxtH2 and ctxtCipher, a meta data Meta, and
a message m. It first samples a random nonce of bit length
l. Next, it computes the Diffie-Hellman exchange of skS
ZBox
and pkR
ZBox, which is combined with the context ctxtH2
and used as input to the hash function H2 for a key K.
Then, it computes the associated data D by concatenating
H1(ctxtCipher) and H1(Meta). The output is the nonce
nonce and an AEAD ciphertext produced from the key
K, nonce nonce, data D, and message m.
• The decryption algorithm ZBox.Dec takes as input a
receiver’s secret key skR
ZBox, a sender’s public key pkS
ZBox,
two contexts ctxtH2 and ctxtCipher, a meta data Meta, and
a ciphertext c. This algorithm parses the nonce nonce from
the ciphertext c, computes the key K and the associated
data D as in the encryption algorithm, and executes the
AEAD decryption. If the AEAD outputs a message m ̸= ⊥,
this algorithm simply outputs this m, and aborts otherwise.
Appendix C.
Proof Sketch of Theorem 1
Proof Sketch. By the collision resistance of H1, the DS
scheme underlying ZSign algorithm never signs two identical
input. The euf-cma security of DS then ensures that all
parties obtains other parties’ honest sign-up messages in
every group. Then, we consider two cases. If A can win
via the event EKAuth, then we can easily guess the group
identifier ›
gid with some leader P ›
gid and party ‹
P that trigger
A to win with probability at least 1/cmaxRegqNEWGROUP. By
mn-prf-ODH security of ECDH and H2 underlying ZBox
algorithm, the key of AEAD between P ›
gid and ‹
P is indistin-
guishable from random. If A can win via the event EKAuth,
then the attacker must be able to either forge a ciphertext or
a nonce of AEAD, which breaks either the CTI-CPA security
of (n, m)-FROB security of AEAD.
If A win via the event EKPriv, then we can easily
guess the group identifier ›
gid with some leader P ›
gid and
the identifier of all parties in the set GP(›
gid,fi
gkid) for
the tested group key index fi
gkid with probability at least
1/cmaxPartyc(nparty−1)
maxReg
qNEWGROUP. By a sequence of (nparty −1)
hybrid games, we know that all keys and ciphertext of AEAD
between every participant in ›
gid and the leader P ›
gid should
be indistinguishable from random due to the mn-prf-ODH
security of ECDH and H2 and ind$-cca security of AEAD.
Thus, A cannot win via EKPriv.
Appendix D.
Proof Sketch of Theorem 2
Proof Sketch. We can easily guess the group ›
gid that enables
A to win with probability at least qNEWGROUP. Due to the
w-PAKE security of the PAKEPP scheme with Dpw, we can
ensure that the keys k(P ′,›
gid)
PP
of all authorized participants P ′
in the group ›
gid, which are output by PAKEPP of and will be
used for AEADPP, are random. Moreover, the key k(P ′,›
gid)
PP
produced by the leader P ›
gid of the group ›
gid is either same as
the one produced by the corresponding authorized participant
P ′ or independently random. By cmaxReg hybrid games on
the cti-cpa security of AEADPP, all authorized parties P ′ in
the group ›
gid must agree on all AEADPP ciphertexts with
the leader P ›
gid. By d-frob security of AEADPP, agreeing
ciphertexts indicates that agreeing on the associated data,
i.e., sign-up messages. Moreover, by the ind$-cca security
of AEAD AEADPP, all AEADPP ciphertexts produced by
P ›
gid for any unauthorized party are indistinguishable from
random and therefore leaks no information about any group
keys. Finally, if A win via the event EKAuth or EKPriv
against Π′, then A can also win the same event against
Π’s Sec-mGKD-pki security.
Appendix E.
Proof Sketch of Theorem 3
Proof Sketch. The proof can be easily given by a reduction.
The attacker B can easily simulates the real Sec-mGKD-pki
game against Π′ to A by sampling all passwords for all
groups and runs the PP transformation by himself. All
information that B needs can be obtained by querying its
challenger. Finally, B forwards the bit output by A and wins
whenever A wins.
2703
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on January 14,2026 at 01:24:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Appendix F.
Meta-Review
F.1. Summary
The paper presents a protocol version of the audio-
video chat application Zoom that aims to achieve end-to-
end security, in a group chat setting, even in the face of a
malicious server. They rely on PAKEs in order to construct
said protocol. They also present a detailed formal security
analysis of the protocol currently used in Zoom.
F.2. Scientific Contributions
• Provides a Valuable Step Forward in an Established Field
• Independent Confirmation of Important Results with Lim-
ited Prior Research
F.3. Reasons for Acceptance
1) The paper provides a valuable step forward in an established
field, as it is one of the first formal studies of the protocol
Zoom uses (which is a widely used service) specially
in regards to its claims on end-to-end encryption. They
formalise the security of the protocol and state that it
is insecure in the face of malicious servers (which was
previously know but not formalised).
2) The paper proposes a new protocol that achieves strong
security/privacy notions in the face of a malicious server.
This protocol can be used by Zoom.
F.4. Noteworthy Concerns
The paper is rigorous in their technical definitions, but
an in-depth analysis of performance/efficiency considerations
of the new protocol is lacking. This is very much needed
given the constrains of working with video/audio, and to
further emphasise the practicality of their protocol.
Appendix G.
Response to the Meta-Review
Our proposed changes do not change the actual message
transmission layer, only the key exchange parts. Moreover,
our new solution is tailored to the current Zoom message
flow, thus does not add extra communication rounds to the
key exchange, which are the main performance constraint
for this type of applications.
2704
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on January 14,2026 at 01:24:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

