Optimistic Fast Confirmation While Tolerating
Malicious Majority in Blockchains
Ruomu Hou
National University of Singapore
houruomu@comp.nus.edu.sg
Haifeng Yu
National University of Singapore
haifeng@comp.nus.edu.sg
Abstract—The robustness of a blockchain against the adver-
sary is often characterized by the maximum fraction (fmax)
of adversarial power that it can tolerate. While most existing
blockchains can only tolerate fmax < 1
2 or lower, there are some
blockchain systems that are able to tolerate a malicious majority,
namely fmax ≥1
2. A key price paid by such blockchains, however,
is their large confirmation latency. This work aims to significantly
reduce the confirmation latency in such blockchains, under the
common case where the actual fraction f of adversarial power
is relatively small. To this end, we propose a novel blockchain
called FLINT. FLINT tolerates fmax ≥1
2 and can give optimistic
execution (i.e., fast confirmation) whenever f is relatively small.
Our experiments show that the fast confirmation in FLINT only
takes a few minutes, as compared to several hours of confirmation
latency in prior works.
I. INTRODUCTION
Background. The robustness of a blockchain against the
adversary is often characterized by the maximum fraction
(fmax) of adversarial power that it can tolerate. Here fmax cor-
responds to for example, the fraction of malicious nodes in a
permissioned setting, or the fraction of adversarially-controlled
stakes/computation power in a (hybrid/permissionless) Proof-
of-Stake/Proof-of-Work setting.
Most blockchains in the literature (e.g., [2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10, 11]) can only tolerate fmax < 1
2 or lower. Furthermore,
due to the overhead of approaching the theoretical limits, there
is usually a gap between the theoretical fmax and the practical
fmax that an actual implementation intends to tolerate. The
practical fmax considered in various blockchain implemen-
tations/experiments in the literature (e.g., [5, 8, 9, 10, 11])
typically ranges from fmax = 0.2 to 0.25.
There are also some blockchains [12, 13, 14, 15] that
can tolerate fmax ≥
1
2. These blockchains are more robust
against, for example, large mining pools controlled by a
few entities. More generally, they are more resilient against
correlated byzantine failures, for example, when an attacker
compromised a large fraction of nodes by exploiting a com-
mon vulnerability. The current state-of-the-art design for such
blockchain systems is BCUBE [15]. BCUBE’s design aims
for fmax = 0.99 in theory, while their actual implementa-
tion/experiments consider fmax = 0.7.
Large confirmation latency. A key price paid by these
blockchains such as BCUBE, however, is their large confir-
mation latency. Here the confirmation latency refers to the
time needed for the blockchain to confirm the final position
of a block in the distributed ledger, after the block is proposed.
For example, in BCUBE’s experiments [15] for fmax = 0.7, it
takes about 6 hours for a block to get confirmed. This is in
sharp contrast with blockchains [2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11]
that only tolerates fmax < 1
2, whose confirmation latency is
usually on the order of minutes or less.
Our goal. This work explores the possibility of significantly
reducing such confirmation latency. Part of this hour-long con-
firmation latency, unfortunately, is somewhat fundamental: To
tolerate fmax ≥1
2, these blockchains [14, 15] need to rely on
byzantine broadcast protocols [12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20]
that can tolerate fmax ≥
1
2, as their core. Existing lower
bounds [13] show that, under certain conditions, the worst-
case number of rounds needed by such a byzantine broadcast
protocol is at least linear, with respect to either the number
of nodes in the system or the number of committee members
(if a committee is used).1
Let f, where f ≤fmax, be the actual fraction of adversarial
power at any given point of time. The above discussion
suggests that reducing confirmation latency has some inherent
obstacle when f = fmax. But one would imagine that in
common/typical cases, f is likely to be smaller than fmax.
Thus our goal is to significantly reduce the confirmation
latency, under common cases where f is relatively small (e.g.,
f = 0.2). When f is large (e.g., f = 0.6), our design should
still remain secure. It is worth emphasizing that our notion
of “small” is only in the relative sense. The reason is that
our “small” f actually is similar to the maximum tolerance of
many existing blockchain implementations [5, 8, 9, 10, 11],
whose fmax is only about 0.2 to 0.25.
Our central contribution. The central contribution of this
paper is the design, analysis, implementation, and evaluation
of a novel blockchain protocol called FLINT. FLINT has an
optimistic track and a normal track. FLINT always guarantees
security, even if f is large (e.g., f = 0.6). But if f is
small (e.g., 0.2), the optimistic track gives fast confirmation.
When f is large, the normal track gives normal confirmation.
Our experiments show that the fast confirmation in FLINT
only takes a few minutes, as compared to several hours in
1While theoretically it is possible to overcome this linear bound in
some other cases, existing theoretical approaches [20, 21] of doing so are
not practically feasible in large-scale systems with thousands nodes: These
approaches [20, 21] incur a large amount of communication — specifically,
Ω(n4) bits of communication, where n is the number of nodes in the system.
2481
2023 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP)
© 2023, Ruomu Hou. Under license to IEEE.
DOI 10.1109/SP46215.2023.00145
2023 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) | 978-1-6654-9336-9/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/SP46215.2023.10179323
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 11,2025 at 17:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

BCUBE [15]. We believe that such a significant reduction,
from hours to minutes, achieves an important step forward,
in facilitating the broader application/adoption of blockchains
that can tolerate a malicious majority.
A large body of prior works on blockchains, as well as
byzantine fault-tolerant systems in general, have similarly
explored various notions of optimistic execution or optimistic
track [14, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33,
34, 35, 36, 37, 38], with the goal of improving common-case
performance. However, most of these designs fundamentally
only work for fmax <
1
2. To our knowledge, FLINT is the
first blockchain system that tolerates fmax ≥1
2 and can give
optimistic execution (i.e., fast confirmation) whenever f is
relatively small.
Main problem. If we knew the value of f, and if we could
choose which track to run based on that knowledge, then we
could trivially use existing techniques to design the two tracks
in FLINT. But f is actually unknown.
As a result, the optimistic track in FLINT will be invoked,
regardless of whether f is actually small. We need to ensure
that the optimistic track does not generate wrong outputs, even
if f turns out to be large. Second, when f is large, some nodes
may still generate (correct) fast confirmation from the fast
track, while the remaining nodes will get normal confirmation
from the normal track. We need to properly “couple” these
two tracks to ensure agreement.
At a deeper level, achieving all these under fmax ≥
1
2
involves new technical challenges that did not exist when
fmax < 1
2. Section II gives examples of such new challenges.
Our approach. Our design is structured, and is driven by a
sequence of logical steps:
• Ensure that the optimistic track does not generate wrong
outputs, even if f turns out to be large.
We design
a mechanism using b cert, to ensure the consistency
across all fast outputs.
• Properly “couple” the optimistic track and normal track.
In the normal track, we use a standard byzantine broad-
cast protocol to disseminate the block from the block pro-
poser. Concurrently, we use another generalized byzan-
tine broadcast protocol to disseminate the fast outputs
from the optimistic track. We finally let the return value
(if any) from the generalized protocol take precedence.
• Ensure that if the block proposer is honest, then its block
(instead of an empty block) must be adopted. To prevent
the empty block from being (incorrectly) adopted as the
decision, we design another certificate, p cert, as a
prerequisite for an empty block to be used as the decision.
Our results. Our formal and end-to-end security analysis
shows that for any given 1
2 ≤fmax ≤0.99, we can configure
FLINT such that (see Theorem 4):
• FLINT always guarantees security (i.e., safety and live-
ness) when f ≤fmax.
• When f ≤min(1 −fmax, 1
3) −c, FLINT generates fast
confirmation for each block, with a small confirmation
latency. Otherwise FLINT will have normal confirmation
latency. Here the positive constant c can be made arbitrar-
ily close to 0, by increasing the size of certain committees
in FLINT.
We have also implemented a research prototype of FLINT.
We run experiments with up to 10000 nodes, under similar and
realistic settings as the state-of-the-art BCUBE protocol [15].
Our results show that FLINT drastically reduces confirmation
latency, in common cases where f is relatively small. For
example under fmax = 0.6, FLINT confirms a block in around
3.8 minutes when f ≤0.2, while BCUBE takes around 292
minutes [15] to confirm a block regardless of how small f is.
This is a reduction of around 76 times in confirmation latency.
For larger f ∈(0.2, 0.6], FLINT gives a confirmation latency
that is rather close to BCUBE’s.
Finally, FLINT does pay a small price in throughput when
compared to BCUBE, due to the additional mechanism in
FLINT. Our experiments show that relative to BCUBE, the
throughput of FLINT is about 6% lower. We feel that this is a
relatively small price to pay.
Roadmap. Section II gives some example technical challenges
that we face in FLINT. Section III describes our system/attack
model. Section IV through V presents the design of FLINT.
Section VI provides our security analysis. Section VII presents
implementation details and experimental results. Section VIII
elaborates on the issue of external verifiability. Section IX
discusses related works.
II. TECHNICAL CHALLENGES
Byzantine fault-tolerant systems typically build on a com-
mon set of top-level techniques, such as using various quorums
and certificates. FLINT is no exception. The specific designs
of these top-level techniques, however, greatly impact the final
guarantees. Hence, different protocols are essentially about
how to best design the various quorums/certificates, given
the specific end goals. This section describes two example
challenges faced by FLINT, given its specific goal.
Example challenge #1. A common design for the optimistic
track is to let some leader node propose and then collect
votes from all nodes. If sufficient votes are collected, then the
protocol generates a fast confirmation. Otherwise the protocol
falls back to the normal track. Here to get a fast confirmation,
it is necessary for the leader to be honest.
But in the regime of fmax ≥1
2, the normal track is rather
slow (e.g., 6 hours [15]). This significantly amplifies the
negative impact of a malicious leader in the above design.
For example, if f = 0.2 and if we choose leaders randomly
for each block, then roughly for every 5 blocks, we will need
to pay the large overhead (e.g., 6 hours) of the normal track.
Hence, we avoid such a design. Instead, we aim to generate
fast confirmation as long as f is relatively small, without
needing any specific node to be honest.
A natural idea for achieving our goal would be to replace
the simple voting (coordinated by the leader), with a more
general byzantine agreement protocol (such as HotStuff [32])
that can succeed as long as f < 1
3. A deeper look, however,
2482
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 11,2025 at 17:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

reveals a problem with validity. Validity means that if the
block proposer is honest, then the blockchain should adopt
the block proposed by the block proposer, instead of adopting
for example, an empty block. Now imagine that an honest
block proposer proposes a block b. When f >
1
2, HotStuff
will not offer any guarantees, and may return an empty block
as the decision value. This empty block will then become the
fast output, which violates validity.
Overcoming this issue takes several more steps in our
design. First, we require some additional certificate (i.e.,
p cert), before the empty block is allowed to be used as
the fast output. We ensure that this certificate can never be
generated when the block proposer is honest. This in turn
prevents the above problem with validity. This first step,
unfortunately, has an undesirable side effect: It may prevent
the proper generation of fast output when the block proposer is
malicious. This brings us back to original problem of requiring
an honest leader.
To overcome this, we observe that for the problem to occur
while using p cert, i) the value of f needs to be small (since
otherwise we do not expect fast output anyway), and ii) the
malicious proposer needs to send its block to a small fraction
of honest nodes. This means that some honest node already
sees some block from the malicious proposer. Based on this,
we invoke HotStuff in a way, such that a block is always more
favored than an empty block, as the decision value, when some
nodes feed a block into HotStuff while others feed an empty
block. (Our actually design is more complex, to account for all
the corner cases.) Directly doing this, however, could result in
poor performance. Hence as the last step, we design additional
optimizations to ensure that our approach will be efficient.
Example challenge #2. A common design of the normal track
is for each node to feed the various certificates, which it has
collected (if any) from the optimistic track, into the normal
track. This enables the normal track to properly follow the
decision made (if any) in the optimistic track. In the regime
of fmax <
1
2, this can be easily done by feeding all such
certificates into a byzantine agreement protocol.
With fmax ≥
1
2, however, we will need to use byzantine
broadcast (as in BCUBE [15]), instead of byzantine agreement.
A byzantine broadcast protocol only allows broadcast from
a single node. Hence, a naive design would require up to
n parallel invocations of byzantine broadcast, resulting in
prohibitively overhead. To overcome this, in FLINT, we design
a generalized byzantine broadcast protocol that simultaneously
allows many broadcasters, while without blowing up the
overhead.
III. SYSTEM MODEL AND ATTACK MODEL
Since this work improves upon BCUBE [15], to facilitate
a direct comparison, we inherit the system/attack model from
[15]. Specifically, we consider a setting without PKI, except
for potentially using an initial PKI to create the genesis block
that specifies the initial stake distribution at bootstrapping
time. Each node has a locally generated public/private key
pair, where the public key also serves as the id of the node.
Each node is either honest or malicious. A malicious node is
fully byzantine, and may deviate from the protocol arbitrarily.
We assume that there is an adversary controlling all the
malicious nodes, and the malicious nodes can all collude
in arbitrary ways. As in BCUBE and a number of other
blockchains [2, 3, 4], we allow the adversary to be mildly-
adaptive — namely, it takes some time (e.g., many epochs)
for the adversary to adaptively corrupt nodes.
We use Proof-of-Stake in our design: There are some
stakes in the system, and a stake can be transferred from
node to node, or dynamically generated/destroyed if needed,
via transactions in the underlying blockchain. As in typical
Proof-of-Stake blockchains [3, 4, 5], we assume that at any
given point of time, the fraction of stakes that are owned by
malicious nodes is at most fmax. For the design of FLINT, we
allow fmax up to 0.99. At any given point of time, we use
f to denote the actual fraction of stakes that are owned by
malicious nodes. The value fmax should be provided to FLINT
as a parameter, while f is unknown to FLINT. We will adopt
the beacon generation mechanism in BCUBE [15], and hence
need to also inherit the weak Proof-of-Work assumption [15]
needed by that mechanism: We assume that the aggregate
computational power of the malicious nodes is no more than
100 times of that of the honest nodes. This assumption is
separate from, and in addition to, the assumption on fmax.
As in most large-scale blockchain systems (e.g., [5, 7, 39,
40]) including BCUBE, the nodes in FLINT form an overlay
network. For convenience, we view each (undirected) edge
in this overlay as two directed edges in opposite directions.
We say that a direct edge from A1 to A2 is good, if i) both
A1 and A2 are honest nodes, and ii) a small-sized message
(e.g., 10KB) sent by A1 will be received by A2 within δ1
time. Under relatively large δ1 value (e.g., δ1 = 10 seconds),
we expect most edges among honest nodes to be good. Same
as BCUBE [15], we assume the subgraph containing all the
honest nodes and all the good edges to be strongly connected,
and we let d be any value that is no smaller than the diameter
of this subgraph. Note that eclipse/partitioning attacks [41,
42] on the overlay network may cause this subgraph to be
disconnected — dealing with such attacks is an active research
topic [42, 43, 44] and is beyond our scope. We assume that the
physical clock readings on two honest nodes differ by at most
δ2 (e.g., δ2 = 2 seconds). We assume that CPU processing
time is negligible. Parts of our protocol will use the notion
of rounds, where each round lasts δ = δ1 + δ2 time. (Our
implementation uses δ = 12 seconds.) Each node uses its local
physical clock to determine the beginning/end of each round.
One can easily verify that with our definition of δ and despite
clock error, a small-sized message sent along a good edge at
the beginning of a round will be received by the receiver, by
the beginning of the next round. We define ∆= d · δ.
As in most blockchains, we assume that a public genesis
block provides some trusted unbiased randomness, as well as
an initial stake distribution among the nodes, for bootstrapping.
We assume that standard crypto operations such as digital
signatures cannot be broken, and we view hash functions as
2483
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 11,2025 at 17:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

random oracles.
Transaction and blocks. We assume that nodes in the
blockchain generate transactions. These transactions are then
disseminated to all nodes via a background gossiping process
on the overlay network. A node proposing a new block simply
chooses some random transactions that it has seen but have
not yet been included in any confirmed blocks. Whenever a
node A1 intends to send a transaction (potentially as part of
a block) to another node A2, A1 will check whether A2 has
already seen that transaction, to avoid redundant sending of
transactions.
External/public verifiability. Typical blockchains provide
a key external/public verifiability property, in order to
support
light-clients
[45].
Here
a
light-client
does
not
fully/continuously participate in the blockchain protocol. In-
stead, it uses the blockchain only by interacting with one
or more full-nodes on demand. (In our description of the
FLINT protocol, a node, regardless of whether it is in various
committees, is always a full-node.) Despite this, a light-client
can still securely extract/verify the current blockchain state,
by cross-checking against multiple full-nodes [46, 47].
When f ≥1
2, unfortunately, such external/public verifiabil-
ity is no longer possible to achieve [48]. Hence FLINT does
not provide external/public verifiability when f ≥
1
2. This
is similar to prior designs [14, 15] for tolerating a malicious
majority. Section VIII provides more discussions on this.
IV. OVERVIEW OF FLINT
FLINT builds and improves upon BCUBE. The following
reviews BCUBE first, and then describes FLINT.
Review of BCUBE [15]. In BCUBE, conceptually, each node
has an infinite list of slots, where all slots are initially unfilled.
Let time t0 be the time that the blockchain starts running, and
let x be the inter-block time (e.g., 98 seconds) in BCUBE. For
each slot i (i = 1, 2, . . .), all nodes in BCUBE will invoke a
byzantine broadcast protocol called OVERLAYBB [15] at time
t0 + i · x. That invocation will eventually output a block on
each node. A node then places that block into its i-th slot,
and the block becomes the i-th block in the blockchain on
that node. Note that the OVERLAYBB invocation for slot i may
start, before the OVERLAYBB invocation for slot i−1 returns.
Hence there will be multiple concurrently-active invocations.
To invoke OVERLAYBB, the system needs to elect a random
committee (denoted as committeeN). To do so, BCUBE has
a beacon generation mechanism, which generates periodic
beacons. Each beacon is a random value that is agreed upon
by all honest nodes. Roughly speaking, there will be a beacon
si for each slot i. The system can then select a random set
of stakes, by using hash(i|si) as the randomness to index
into the stake distribution. The owners of the selected stakes
will be the committeeN for slot i. BCUBE further uses the
first member in committeeN as the block proposer for slot
i. After the beacon is released, all nodes in the system will
know the public keys of the proposer and all the members in
committeeN.
The proposer will construct a block and feed that block into
its invocation of OVERLAYBB, as the proposed block. Hou et
al. [15] have proved:
Fact 1 (Guarantee of OVERLAYBB). If committeeN has at
least one honest member, then:
• OVERLAYBB must eventually return on all honest nodes.
• OVERLAYBB must return the same block on all honest
nodes.
• If the block proposer is honest, then OVERLAYBB must
return the block proposed by the proposer.
These properties lead to the Safety and Liveness of the
BCUBE blockchain itself: First, for any given slot, since
OVERLAYBB must return the same block, all honest nodes
must have the same block in that slot, which gives Safety. In
particular, there will not be any forks. Second, the sequence
of blocks on each node must grow at a steady rate since
OVERLAYBB is periodically invoked and completed, which
gives Liveness.
Finally, the block confirmation latency in BCUBE essen-
tially equals the time needed for OVERLAYBB to return. Since
it takes several hours for OVERLAYBB to return, BCUBE’s
confirmation latency is also several hours [15].
Overview of FLINT. FLINT is the same as BCUBE, except that
FLINT replaces OVERLAYBB in BCUBE with another protocol
called FLINTBB that we have designed. FLINT keeps all
other parts in BCUBE unchanged. Since FLINTBB is the main
novelty in FLINT, the remainder of the paper will elaborate on
FLINTBB. For clarity, we will imagine that each node holds
exactly one stake/coin. Generalizing to the case where each
node may hold multiple coins is trivial, as in BCUBE [15].
As an optimization, FLINTBB uses aggregate signatures to
reduce signature size, in the same way as BCUBE [15] — see
Appendix III for details.
V. DESIGN OF FLINTBB
A. Overview of FLINTBB
Top-level design of FLINTBB. The following gives our
FLINTBB protocol, at the highest level:
1) The block proposer, which may be either honest or
malicious, constructs a block.
2) All nodes spend some fixed amount of time executing
the OptimisticTrack() subroutine in FLINTBB. Here
the amount of time (e.g., 10 minutes) is chosen such that
when f is small, fast outputs can usually be generated
within so much time. If OptimisticTrack() returns
within that time frame on a node A, then node A outputs
that return value as the fast output.
3) All nodes stop executing OptimisticTrack().
4) Finally, all nodes invoke the NormalTrack() subroutine
in FLINTBB. NormalTrack() always eventually returns.
A node outputs the return value of NormalTrack()
as the normal output, if the node previously did not
generate a fast output. Otherwise the node discards the
return value of NormalTrack().
2484
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 11,2025 at 17:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

OptimisticTrack() enables a node to generate a fast
output when f is small. When f is large, OptimisticTrack()
may fail to return on some nodes. In such a case, a (slower)
normal output will be generated from NormalTrack(). A node
that has already generated a fast output will still participate in
NormalTrack(), to help other nodes (if any) to generate the
normal output. Such extra work will not delay the creation of
the next block, since as explained in Section IV and same as
in BCUBE [15], for each slot, FLINT invokes FLINTBB at a
pre-determined time. Note that all blocks eventually will still
be totally-ordered.
We will aim for a modular design, while exploiting existing
building blocks whenever possible. Our OptimisticTrack()
and NormalTrack() subroutines will use HotStuff [32] and
OVERLAYBB [15], respectively, as building blocks and in a
black-box fashion. HotStuff [32] is an existing BFT agree-
ment protocol, while OVERLAYBB [15] is an existing byzan-
tine broadcast protocol. Roughly speaking, HotStuff achieves
agreement faster but can only tolerate f < 1
3, while OVER-
LAYBB achieves agreement slower but can tolerate all f < 1.
Example scenario to drive our discussion. Consider a system
with many nodes, and a large f value such as f = 0.6.
Even under large f, some honest nodes might still generate
fast outputs. For example, this can happen if the malicious
nodes behave maliciously in some steps, but honestly in others.
Let A1 through A4 be any four honest nodes in this system.
Imagine that A1 and A2 have generated fast outputs b1 and
b2, respectively. On A3 and A4, OptimisticTrack() fails
to return. Hence A3 and A4 generate normal outputs b3 and
b4, respectively. Let b be the block constructed by the block
proposer in FLINTBB.
Our discussions in this section will focus on intuitions,
and do not constitute a security analysis. (Section VI later
will give a complete formal analysis.) Intuitively, to guarantee
correctness, we need to ensure that b1 = b2 = b3 = b4. When
the block proposer is honest, we further need b1 = b2 = b3 =
b4 = b. We hence drive the discussions in the remainder of
this section, by explaining step-by-step:
• How to ensure b1 = b2: See Section V-B.
• How to ensure b3 = b4: See Section V-C.
• How to ensure b1 = b3, namely, how to “couple” the
optimistic track and the normal track: See Section V-C
and V-D.
• How to ensure b1 = b and b3 = b, when the proposer is
honest (i.e., how to ensure validity): See Section V-E.
While not explicitly mentioned, in all the above steps, we also
need to ensure the generation of fast outputs when f is small.
B. Basic Design of OptimisticTrack()
To use FLINTBB, the system needs to elect a committee
of nodes. We use committeeH to denote this committee.
This committee is chosen randomly in the same way as
committeeN in BCUBE [15], as reviewed in Section IV. Con-
sider any given slot in FLINT. Note that all nodes, regardless of
whether they are in committeeH, will execute the FLINTBB
fmax
max fraction of malicious stakes
f
actual fraction of malicious stakes at specific time
f ′
fraction of malicious stakes in committeeH
α, β
internal parameters in FLINTBB
committeeH
committee for running HotStuff
committeeN
committee needed by OVERLAYBB and CERTBB
TABLE I: Key notations in FLINTBB.
protocol for that slot. In particular, non-committee-members
will also invoke FLINTBB, except that the protocol will ask
them to take fewer actions (see Algorithm 2 later for those
actions). The very first node in committeeH will be the block
proposer for that slot.
Some technical notations. Recall that our end goal is to:
• When f ≤fmax, guarantee security.
• When f ≤min(1 −fmax, 1
3) −c, generate fast output (in
addition to guaranteeing security).
We use f ′ to denote the fraction of malicious stakes (and
nodes, when each node has 1 stake) in committeeH. Due
to randomness, f ′ might not exactly equal f. For conve-
nience, we translate the conditions on f, to conditions on f ′.
Specifically, given fmax, FLINTBB will compute two internal
parameters α and β (explained later), where 0 ≤α <
min(1 −β, 1
3) ≤0.5 ≤β < 1. For example, for fmax = 0.6,
our later experiments use α = 0.279 and β = 0.720. We then
aim to:
• When f ′ ≤β, guarantee security.
• When f ′ ≤α, generate fast output (in addition to
guaranteeing security).
We will later show that the conditions on f will lead to the
corresponding conditions on f ′, with overwhelming probabil-
ity. Table I summarizes our key notations.
Starting point. Our basic design of OptimisticTrack() is
illustrated in Figure 1. Here the proposer first propagates2
the block that it has constructed, with a signature, to all
nodes in the overlay network. Note that the proposer may be
honest or malicious. Next, all nodes in committeeH invokes
HotStuff [32], while feeding the block that it has received,
as its input into HotStuff. If the node has received none, it
feeds the special (empty) block Ψ into HotStuff. This special
block Ψ is publicly-known. Our invocation of HotStuff will
then give a return value on each node in committeeH.
The invocation of HotStuff in FLINTBB will stop, either
when OptimisticTrack() generates a fast output or when
OptimisticTrack() times out, whichever is earlier. Note
that the HotStuff invocation is tied to the current invocation
of FLINTBB. For different invocations of FLINTBB, their
internal invocations of HotStuff are unrelated.
Problem so far. Consider any two honest nodes, A1 and A2, in
committeeH. If f ′ ≤α < 1
3, then all guarantees of HotStuff
2In various places in FLINTBB, a node may propagate a certain message
x on the overlay network, by sending x to its neighbors and by asking its
neighbors to recursively relay/forward this message to their neighbors. Care
should be taken to prevent the adversary from overwhelming the relaying
capacity of an honest node. Our technical report [1] explains how to achieve
this.
2485
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 11,2025 at 17:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

contribute 
to and 
wait for
b_cert
no conflicting
announcement
proposer 
propagates block
HotStuff
block 
received?
yes
feed in block
contribute 
to and 
wait for
a_cert
generate 
fast output
no, feed in Ψ
announce
intention
Fig. 1: Basic design of the optimistic track, as in Section V-B, for nodes in committeeH. (The part about p cert in Section V-E
is not included in this basic design yet.)
type
purpose
possible range
for threshold
b cert
cert for a block (either normal
β < tb ≤1 −α
block or Ψ)
a cert
cert needed to announce intention
α < ta ≤1 −α
of contributing to b cert
p cert
additional cert for special block Ψ
β < tp ≤1 −α
TABLE II: Various certificates and their respective thresholds.
must hold [32]. This means that HotStuff must return the same
value on A1 and A2. Nodes A1 and A2 could then safely use
this return value as their respective fast outputs b1 and b2.
But if f ′ is large, then HotStuff will not offer any guar-
antees. In such a case, if A1 and A2 naively adopt the return
values from HotStuff as fast outputs, then b1 and b2 may differ.
How to ensure b1 = b2. In FLINTBB, a node does not directly
use the return value from HotStuff as the fast output. Instead,
each node A1 in committeeH will sign the return value x that
A1 gets from HotStuff, and propagates that signature. When
A1 does this, we also say that A1 contributes to the b cert
(i.e., block certificate) of x. A valid b cert for x comprises
at least ⌈tb · |committeeH|⌉such signatures, where tb is the
threshold for b cert. A node will use x as the fast output, if
and only if it sees a valid b cert for x. Table II summarizes
the various certificates in FLINTBB.
Recall that we want security when f ′ ≤β, and we
further want fast output when f ′ ≤α. If we choose tb
such that tb > β, then for all f ′ ≤β, a valid b cert must
contain the contribution from at least one honest node. We
will later ensure that different honest nodes never contribute
to the b cert of two different blocks — namely, there will be
a unique block, such that each honest node either contribute
to the b cert of that block, or does not contribute to any
b cert at all. Combined with the earlier reasoning, we have
the following key property:
If tb > β and f ′ ≤β, then there can be at most one
block for which there is a valid b cert.
This means that in our earlier example, despite that A1 and A2
get different return values from HotStuff, if they both generate
fast outputs, then their fast outputs must be the same since they
both need to see a valid b cert.
How to ensure fast output. We also need to ensure that the
requirement of b cert does not hinder the desired generation
of fast output, when f ′ is small. Specifically, when f ′ ≤α,
HotStuff must return the same block x on all honest members
in committeeH. If we choose tb such that tb ≤1−α, then the
contribution from all the honest nodes will already be sufficient
to form a valid b cert for x, enabling fast outputs. Note
that here, running HotStuff ensures that all honest members
in committeeH contribute to the b cert of x.
Choosing the threshold tb. The two requirements on tb so
far, together, imply that tb can be any value in (β, 1 −α], as
summarized in Table II.
Mechanism related to a cert. We next explain how to
ensure that different honest nodes never contribute to the
b cert of two different blocks. Before contributing to the
b cert of a block x1, a node A1 announces its intention to do
so, by propagating an announcement in the network. If within
∆time, A1 does not see any conflicting announcements (i.e.,
for another block x2 from another node A2), then A1 will
proceed and contribute to the b cert of x1. This effectively
prevents two honest nodes from contributing to the b cert
of different blocks, since at least one of them must see the
conflicting announcements from the other.
Naively doing this, however, would introduce a vulnerabil-
ity: Malicious nodes can make announcements freely, causing
honest nodes to always refrain from contributing to b cert.
Note that we only care about this problem when f ′ ≤α, since
when f ′ > α, we do not hope for fast output anyway.
Now to deal with this problem when f ′ ≤α, in FLINTBB,
a node A1 first contributes to the a cert for the block x1
that A1 intends to later make an announcement for. As usual,
such contribution is done by A1 generating a signature on
the certificate type and the block x1, and then propagating
that signature. Next, to announce its intention to contribute
to the b cert of x1, node A1 is required to include in
its announcement a valid a cert for x1. One can hence
view a cert as an announcement certificate. We set the
threshold ta for a cert such that α < ta ≤1 −α. Namely,
⌈ta ·|committeeH|⌉signatures are needed for a valid a cert.
When f ′ ≤α, since HotStuff returns the same value x1 on all
honest nodes, the adversary cannot obtain a valid a cert for
any other value x2, while the honest nodes can always get a
valid a cert for x1. This prevents the malicious nodes from
making announcements other than for x1.
Comment. In some sense, the above mechanisms can be
viewed as a generalization of the mechanism in Abraham et
al. [35]. Abraham et al.’s protocol is a byzantine agreement
protocol for tolerating up to
1
2 fraction of malicious nodes.
Their protocol can generate a fast output under good-case,
where all honest nodes have the same input value. Part of their
design also uses mechanisms related to our use of b cert and
a cert. However, our normal case is different from theirs: In
2486
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 11,2025 at 17:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

fast output
optimistic track
CERTBB
returns some 
valid output?
yes
no
output the return value of CERTBB
output the return value of OVERLAYBB
CERTBB
OVERLAYBB
(run in parallel)
normal
output
block proposer
block
Fig. 2: Design of the normal track, as in Section V-C.
their normal case, the fraction of malicious nodes is still below
1
2. Hence their protocol only needs to deal with the (single)
tolerance level of 1
2. In our normal case, f ′ can be above 1
2,
and we have two separate fault-tolerance levels, α and β. We
need to show (as we did earlier) that the possible ranges of ta
and tb are still non-empty under our setting.
Nodes not in committeeH. Our discussion so far focused on
A1 and A2, which are in committeeH. To help nodes not
in committeeH to also generate fast outputs, after A1 gets
a fast output, A1 will propagate its fast output b1 and the
corresponding b cert. When a node not in committeeH sees
this, it immediately adopts b1 as its own fast output. By our
earlier reasoning, here b1 must be unique.
C. Design of NormalTrack()
Recall the driving scenario in Section V-A, where A1 and
A2 respectively generate fast outputs b1 and b2, while A3
and A4 respectively generate normal outputs b3 and b4. Our
discussion so far has explained how we ensure b1 = b2. Now
we explain how our design of NormalTrack() ensures b3 = b4
and b1 = b3. Figure 2 illustrates our design.
How to ensure b3
=
b4. NormalTrack() uses OVER-
LAYBB [15] as a building block. See Section IV for a
review of the functionality of OVERLAYBB. Recall that in
OptimisticTrack(), there is a proposer node that constructs
the block for the current slot. This proposer will also act
as the block proposer in OVERLAYBB in NormalTrack().
The OVERLAYBB protocol further needs a committee (de-
noted as committeeN), and we select committeeN in the
same way as BCUBE [15], as reviewed in Section IV. Here
committeeN is different from the committeeH that we used
in OptimisticTrack(), since they may have different sizes.
By Fact 1, OVERLAYBB must return the same block on all
honest nodes. This is true even if f is large, or more precisely,
as long as committeeN has at least one honest member. Hence
if A3 and A4 were to directly use their respective return values
from OVERLAYBB as their normal outputs, we would already
have b3 = b4 as desired.
How to ensure b1 = b3. We also need to ensure that A3’s
normal output b3 agrees with A1’s fast output b1. Recall that
when A1 generated b1, A1 must have had a valid b cert
for b1. To ensure b3 = b1, every node that has generated a
fast output will disseminate its fast output, together with the
corresponding b cert, to all nodes.
It is possible that no honest nodes have fast output, while
some malicious node has it. The malicious node may then
try to disseminate its fast output only to some honest nodes
but not to others, causing inconsistency. To prevent such
an attack, we need to use another generalized byzantine
broadcast protocol called CERTBB, which we have designed
and will discuss later, to disseminate the fast outputs (if any).
In NormalTrack(), the invocation of CERTBB is done in
parallel with the invocation of OVERLAYBB (see Figure 2).
If node A1 previously generated a fast output b1, then A1 will
be a certificate-broadcaster in CERTBB, and will feed into
CERTBB the hash of b1 and the b cert for b1. CERTBB will
then disseminate these to all nodes.
After CERTBB and OVERLAYBB both return, if node A3
gets from CERTBB a return value containing a valid b cert,
then A3 will directly adopt that return value as its normal out-
put. Otherwise A3 uses the return value from OVERLAYBB as
its normal output. Namely, CERTBB overrides OVERLAYBB,
as illustrated in Figure 2.
Summary on why b1 = b3 = b4. Given our design so far, we
give some quick intuitions on why b1 = b3 = b4. We provide
formal proofs later.
First, if some honest node A1 generates a fast output b1,
then A1 will be a certificate-broadcaster in CERTBB. By the
guarantees of CERTBB (explained later), all honest nodes must
get the hash of b1 as the return value from CERTBB, which
ensures all normal outputs (such as b3 and b4) must equal b1.
Second, if no honest node has generated a fast output
(which means there is no b1), then it is still possible that
some malicious nodes may act as certificate-broadcasters. We
consider two cases, depending on the return value of CERTBB
on honest nodes (this return value must be identical across all
honest nodes by the guarantees of CERTBB):
• CERTBB does not return any valid value. Then all the
honest nodes must use the return value from OVER-
LAYBB as their normal outputs. By the properties of
OVERLAYBB in Fact 1, all such normal outputs (such
as b3 and b4) must be identical.
• CERTBB returns the hash of some block x, together with
a valid b cert. All honest nodes will then take x as their
normal outputs, and thus b3 = b4 = x.
D. Design of CERTBB
Goal of CERTBB. We now explain the design of CERTBB.
CERTBB needs the system to provide a committee of nodes.
For simplicity, CERTBB just re-uses committeeN as its
committee. As long as committeeN has at least one honest
member, we need CERTBB to guarantee:
• The return value from CERTBB must be the same on all
honest nodes. This return value is allowed to be null.
• If some honest certificate-broadcaster feeds into CERTBB
the hash of a fast output b1, together with a corresponding
b cert, then CERTBB must return the hash of b1 on
every honest node.
2487
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 11,2025 at 17:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

want fast output?
want to adopt the block proposed by proposer?
Scenario 1: proposer is honest and 0 ≤f ′ ≤α
yes
yes
Scenario 2: proposer is malicious and 0 ≤f ′ ≤α
yes
do not care
Scenario 3: proposer is honest and α < f ′ ≤β
do not care
yes
Scenario 4: proposer is malicious and α < f ′ ≤β
do not care
do not care
TABLE III: Four scenarios and the desired behavior of FLINTBB. FLINTBB does not know which scenario it is in.
Central technical issue. These properties are closed related to
the properties of OVERLAYBB in Fact 1. The key difference is
that in CERTBB, there can be many certificate-broadcasters,
while in OVERLAYBB, there is a single broadcaster which
is the block proposer. Hence we also call CERTBB as a
generalized byzantine broadcast protocol. Since all nodes in
the system can be certificate-broadcasters, simply using one
OVERLAYBB instance for each certificate-broadcaster will
incur prohibitive overheads. Avoiding such overheads is hence
the main technical issue.
Our idea. A central insight here is that every (honest and
malicious) certificate-broadcaster must feed the hash of the
same block b1 into CERTBB, if it does feed something
into CERTBB. The reason is that it is impossible for two
different blocks b1 and b2 to both have valid b cert. Different
certificate-broadcasters may still feed different b cert’s into
CERTBB, since there can be multiple different b cert’s for
b1. But all these b cert’s are “equivalent”, given that they
are all for b1.
This insight enables us to draw the following connection to
OVERLAYBB, which assumes a single broadcaster. Imagine
that in OVERLAYBB, there is a single virtual broadcaster
X, who is malicious. The only value that X is allowed to
broadcast is b1, but X may choose to send b1 to only a subset
of the nodes. We do not view the b cert’s as part of the
object to be broadcast. Instead, we view a b cert for b1 as
a “signature” on b1 by X. Having different b cert’s for b1
simply means that X can generate different “signatures” for
b1, all of which are valid. Now imagine that X generates
different “signatures” for b1, and send those to a subset of
the nodes. Those nodes will then correspond to the certificate-
broadcasters in CERTBB.
The above conceptual connection shows that if we view
the hash of b1 as the object to be broadcast, and view the
b cert’s as “signatures” from the X, then the problem that
CERTBB needs to solve is similar to OVERLAYBB. Hence
we are able to obtain CERTBB, by adapting OVERLAYBB.
For space constraints, we defer the complete pseudo-code and
formal analysis on CERTBB to Appendix II.
E. Adopt Block Proposed by Honest Proposer
How to sure b1 = b and b3 = b (i.e., validity). Our design
of OptimisticTrack() and NormalTrack() so far already
ensures:
• When f ′ ≤β, all outputs of FLINTBB are identical.
Namely, b1 = b2 = b3 = b4 in our running example.
• When f ′ ≤α, FLINTBB generates fast output.
But the puzzle still misses its final piece: Let b be the block
proposed by the block proposer. When the block proposer is
honest, we need to further ensure that b1 = b2 = b3 = b4 = b.
Namely, we want the block proposed by the honest proposer
to be adopted.
To approach this issue in a systematic way, Table III
exhaustively enumerates all possible scenarios. Our design
so far achieves the desired behavior in all scenarios, except
Scenario 3. In Scenario 3 where f ′ is large, the adversary
may cause HotStuff to return the special (empty) block Ψ on
all nodes, and to ignore the block b that the honest proposer
has proposed. (Here Ψ is the only possibility other than b,
since the adversary cannot fake the signature of the honest
proposer.) With our current design, the honest nodes will then
output Ψ instead of b, as fast outputs. We would then have
b1 = b2 = Ψ ̸= b.
Preventing Ψ from getting a b cert in Scenario 3. To
resolve this problem, we introduce a new kind of certificate
called p cert. A valid p cert is needed, before a node
contributes to the b cert for the special block Ψ. In Scenario
3, the requirement of p cert will eventually prevent Ψ from
getting a valid b cert. In turn, Ψ will not be used as a fast
output, and all honest nodes will generate normal outputs,
by adopting the return values of OVERLAYBB in the normal
track. The guarantees of OVERLAYBB in Fact 1 then ensure
that b is adopted. This means that all the outputs will equal b,
as desired.
We now explain the specifics of p cert. Recall that at
the beginning of FLINTBB, the block proposer propagates
its block to all nodes. If a member of committeeH does
not receive this block, it will contribute to p cert. Such
contribution is done by the node generating a signature on
the certificate type (i.e., p cert), and then propagating that
signature. A valid p cert requires at least ⌈tp·|committeeH|⌉
signatures from different members in committeeH, where tp
is the threshold.
As long as we set tp > β, this requirement of p cert
will prevent Ψ from getting a valid b cert in Scenario 3: In
that scenario, the proposer is honest. Thus all honest members
in committeeH must receive the block from the proposer,
and will not contribute to p cert. Since f ′ ≤β < tp,
the malicious members in committeeH will not be sufficient
to form a valid p cert. In turn, honest nodes will never
contribute to the b cert of Ψ. Since a valid b cert must
contain contribution from at least one honest node, Ψ can
never get a valid b cert.
Still ensuring fast output in Scenario 2. We want to ensure
that requiring p cert does not cause new problems in other
scenarios in Table III. It turns out that Scenario 2 may be
affected. In Scenario 2, we do not care whether the block
proposed by the (malicious) proposer is adopted. But we do
2488
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 11,2025 at 17:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

want a fast output, and the requirement of p cert may hinder
such fast output. We next explain how to avoid this problem,
by setting tp ≤1−α. This ultimately means that tp should be
chosen such that β < tp ≤1 −α, as summarized in Table II.
In Scenario 2, the malicious block proposer may choose not
to send its block to honest nodes. We consider two cases. First,
if no honest member in committeeH receives any block from
the proposer, then there will be at least 1 −f ′ ≥1 −α ≥
tp fraction of the members in committeeH contributing to
p cert, resulting in a valid p cert. Then in this case, the
requirement of p cert will not hinder anything.
Second, if some honest member A1 in committeeH receives
a block from the malicious proposer, then the remaining honest
members may or may not be sufficient to form a p cert,
which would be a problem. But intuitively, the block received
by A1 is already a potential candidate for fast output, even
if Ψ cannot be used due to the lack of p cert. Based
on this intuition, we now let nodes in committeeH invoke
HotStuff as follows. When invoking HotStuff, a node feeds
into HotStuff exactly one of the following, in decreasing order
of precedence:
1) Ψ together with a valid p cert, if the node has collected
a valid p cert.
2) A block signed by the proposer, if the node has received
such a block.
3) Some arbitrary value such as 0.
We call the first two kinds of values in the above list as usable
values — namely, these are eligible values for the contribution
of b cert. We further invoke HotStuff (see Appendix I) in a
way such that: If at least one honest node feeds a usable value
into HotStuff, then HotStuff must return some usable value.
With such a design, given that A1 feeds a usable value into
HotStuff and since f ′ is small in Scenario 2, HotStuff must
return a usable value on all honest nodes. All honest nodes
will contribute to the b cert of this usable value, resulting
in a valid b cert. This then leads to fast output. We have
further designed some additional optimizations to ensure that
our above approach will be efficient – see Appendix I.
Taking all 4 scenarios into account. We have discussed
Scenario 2 and 3 in Table III so far. Our design works,
without the need of further adjustment, for Scenario 1 and 4 in
Table III. Our security analysis later will cover all 4 scenarios.
VI. SECURITY ANALYSIS
To make our security analysis rigorous, we provide the
complete pseudo-code for FLINTBB in Algorithm 1 through
3. The pseudo-code is based on the design in the previous
section. Let κ be a security parameter. We define negligible
probability to be any probability that is exp(−Ω(κ)). As in
typical security analysis, we consider executions of polynomial
length with respect to κ. FLINT uses two committees for
each slot, committeeH and committeeN. We set their sizes
to be no smaller than κ. Following our model as inherited
from BCUBE [15] (see Section III), our analysis assumes
that the mildly-adaptive adversary does not have sufficient
Algorithm
1
FLINTBB
(proposer,
committeeH,
committeeN).
1: proposer constructs a block;
2: fast output.block ←null; fast output.b cert ←null;
3: let timeout be a value such that timeout > 6∆+ y, where y
is the time needed for HotStuff to return at Line 22 when f ′ is
below
1
3; // A fast output may potentially be generated earlier
than timeout.
4: spend timeout time in executing the next two lines:
5:
fast output←OptimisticTrack(proposer, committeeH);
6:
output fast output.block; // this is fast output
7: // If the above execution finishes early, wait until time out. If it
does not finish in time, simply stop and proceed to the next line.
8: NormalTrack(proposer, committeeN, fast output);
Algorithm 2 OptimisticTrack(proposer, committeeH).
9: /* Nodes in committeeH execute Line 10–38. */
10: proposer propagates its block (with its signature);
11: wait for ∆time;
12: if I have not received any block signed by the proposer then
contribute to p cert;
13: wait for ∆time;
14: if I get a valid p cert then
15:
input ←Ψ|p cert;
16: else if I previously received a block at Line 12 then
17:
input ←block received at Line 12; // Tie-breaking can be
done arbitrarily, if multiple blocks were received.
18: else
19:
input ←0; // Here input can be an arbitrary value.
20: end if
21: run the following two lines in parallel:
22:
result ←HotStuff(input); // By discussions in Appendix I,
here HotStuff must return either a block with proposer’s signa-
ture, or Ψ|p cert, or Ψ|c cert.
23:
propagate input if input is usable value, and adopt received
usable value as input, by the design in Appendix I;
24: if result is some block then
25:
b ←result;
26: else if result is Ψ|p cert or Ψ|c cert then
27:
b ←Ψ;
28: end if
29: contribute to the a cert of b;
30: wait until I get a valid a cert of b.
31: // Propagate a cert to declare intention to contribute to b cert.
32: propagate the a cert of b;
33: wait for ∆time;
34: if I do not see any a cert corresponding to any value different
from b then contribute to the b cert of b;
35: wait until I see a valid b cert of b;
36: output.block ←b; output.b cert ←the valid b cert;
37: propagate output;
38: return output;
39:
40: /* Nodes not in committeeH execute Line 41–42. */
41: wait until I receive a valid fast output, namely, a block (poten-
tially Ψ) together with a corresponding b cert;
42: return that fast output;
time to adaptively compromise the committee members, after
the corresponding beacon (for choosing those members) was
revealed and before the committee finishes doing its work.
We first reason about FLINTBB. The next theorem shows
that when f ′ ≤β, FLINTBB guarantees security, in the form
2489
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 11,2025 at 17:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Algorithm
3
NormalTrack(proposer,
committeeN,
fast output).
43: run the following two lines in parallel and wait until both return:
44:
b ←OVERLAYBB (proposer, committeeN);
45:
h ←CERTBB (committeeN, fast output);
46:
// see Appendix II for the pseudo-code of CERTBB
47: if I previously generated a fast output at Line 6 then
already output ←true else already output ←false;
48: // We will prove that honest nodes must have the same h here.
49: if h = null then
50:
output the block b, if not already output; // normal output
51: else if h = hash(Ψ) then
52:
output Ψ, if not already output; // normal output
53: else
54:
propagate the block corresponding to the blockhash h, if I
have that block;
55:
wait until the block with blockhash h is received;
56:
output that block, if not already output; // normal output
57: endif
of Termination, Agreement, and Validity:
Theorem 2. Consider any execution of FLINTBB (i.e., Algo-
rithm 1), with α and β such that 0 ≤α < min(1 −β, 1
3) ≤
0.5 ≤β < 1, and where all honest nodes invoke FLINTBB
with the same parameters (i.e., proposer, committeeH, and
committeeN). Let f ′ be the fraction of malicious members in
committeeH. If f ′ ≤β and if committeeN contains at least
one honest member, then:
• (Termination) Each honest node must eventually gener-
ate either a fast output or a normal output (but not both).
• (Agreement) The output, regardless of fast or normal,
must be the same on all honest nodes.
• (Validity) If proposer is honest, and if its block is
received by all honest nodes at Line 12 of Algorithm 2,
then all honest nodes must output the block proposed by
proposer.
Proof. Deferred to our technical report [1].
The next theorem shows that when f ′ ≤α, FLINTBB must
generate a fast output:
Theorem 3. Under the same conditions as in Theorem 2 and
if we further have f ′ ≤α, then FLINTBB must generate a
(fast) output on all honest nodes at Line 6 in Algorithm 1.
Proof. Deferred to our technical report [1].
With the above properties of FLINTBB, we can now reason
about the FLINT blockchain itself. The following theorem
shows that i) FLINT always guarantees security (i.e., Safety
and Liveness) when f ≤fmax, and ii) FLINT generates fast
confirmation for each block when f ≤min(1 −fmax, 1
3) −c.
Theorem 4 (Final Guarantees of FLINT). Consider any given
constant c > 0 and fmax ∈[ 1
2, 0.99]. We can always find a
configuration (i.e., values for α and β) of FLINT such that
except with negligible probability:
• If f ∈[0, fmax], then FLINT guarantees for every slot:
– Safety: For any two honest nodes A1 and A2, if A1
and A2 both have a confirmed block for that slot,
then their confirmed blocks must be the same.
– Liveness: For any honest node A1, after A1 invokes
FLINTBB for that slot, A1 must eventually have a
confirmed block in that slot. If the block proposer
in that slot is honest, and if the proposer’s block is
received by all honest nodes by Line 12 of Algo-
rithm 2, then the confirmed block for that slot must
be the proposer’s block.
• If f further satisfies f ∈[0, min(1 −fmax, 1
3) −c], then
FLINT further guarantees for every slot:
– Fast-confirmation: An honest node must be able to
obtain (fast) confirmation for a block in that slot,
namely, a (fast) output at Line 6 in Algorithm 1.
Proof. See Appendix IV.
Remark. It is interesting to note that the security of FLINT,
namely Safety and Liveness, only relies on the timely delivery
of messages sent at Line 32, Line 44, and Line 45 in our
pseudo-code. This is because, as one can trivially but tediously
verify, the proofs for these two properties do not rely on other
messages. The timely delivery of those other messages is only
for Fast-confirmation.
VII. IMPLEMENTATION AND EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
A. Experimental Methodology
The goal of our experiments is to do a direct comparison
with BCUBE [15], in terms of block confirmation latency
and system throughput. To this end, we have implemented
a FLINT prototype in Go, using TCP for communication.
As part of FLINT, we have also implemented HotStuff [32],
OVERLAYBB [15], and CERTBB. We keep our experimental
settings the same as BCUBE’s, whenever possible. Specifically,
since beacon generation takes at least a day, our experiments
directly inject random beacons, and we did not implement
the beacon generation mechanism. BCUBE’s experiments [15]
also directly inject random beacons. We run our experiment
on 25 high-end PCs in a local-area network. To run as many
as FLINT nodes as possible, each PC runs 400 FLINT nodes
as Go routines. We have ensured that these Go routines do
not interact with each other via the shared memory space. We
have implemented a throttling mechanism at the application
layer, to ensure that each FLINT node consumes no more than
20Mbps bandwidth. This is the same as the 20Mbps available
bandwidth in [15]. Due to CPU constraints and same as [15],
we replace all cryptographic functions with dummy functions
of the same output size. We use block size of 2MB, which is
the same block size as in BCUBE. We use dummy data for the
transactions. Typical Bitcoin transactions are of 0.5KB size —
but we use a larger transaction size of about about 2.5KB, to
reduce CPU overhead and to allow 400 FLINT nodes on each
PC. Transaction size actually does not affect our final results.
We let each FLINT node always hold 1 stake/coin.
2490
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 11,2025 at 17:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

0
25
50
75
100
3.5
4.0
4.5
percentile
mean = 3.7
latency (minutes)
(a) f = 0.02
0
25
50
75
100
3.5
4.0
4.5
percentile
mean = 3.8
latency (minutes)
(b) f = 0.2
0
25
50
75
100
280 300 320
latency (minutes)
mean = 302
percentile
(c) f = 0.3
0
25
50
75
100
280 300 320
mean = 302
percentile
latency (minutes)
(d) f = 0.6
Fig. 3: Histogram of block confirmation latency values in FLINT, under fmax = 0.6 and different f values.
0
100
200
300
400
0.02
0.05
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.45
0.6
confirmation 
latency (minutes)
FLINT
BCUBE
f =
Fig. 4: Block confirmation latency under fmax = 0.6.
The overlay network is built in the same way as in BCUBE’s
experiments [15]. Specifically, each node A1 picks 20 ran-
dom nodes, that are not on the same physical machine as
A1, to establish edges to. Each edge, once established, will
be undirected. Each node will accept up to 22 such edge-
establishment requests, after which it will decline. Hence each
node has at least 20 edges and at most 42 edges. Same as
BCUBE’s experiments, we use d = 6 in our experiments.
We set timeout in Algorithm 1 to be 10 minutes. For the
propagation of low priority messages, instead of sending the
message immediately to up to 42 neighbors at once, a node
sends the message to 4 neighbors at a time. This helps to
reduce duplicates.
Following [15], our experiments focus on fmax = 0.5, 0.6,
and 0.7. In all our experiments, the malicious nodes drop
all messages. All results for FLINT in the next are from
our experiments using our prototype. Results for BCUBE
are directly quoted from [15] — we did not re-run BCUBE
experiments ourselves. Nevertheless, since the experimental
settings for FLINT and BCUBE are almost exactly identical,
these results are directly comparable.
FLINT has a number of internal parameters, such as the
values of α and β. We choose all these internal parameters in
a systematic way, rather than as “magic numbers”. For space
constraints, we defer the details of the parameter choosing to
Appendix V.
B. Results on Block Confirmation Latency
We obtain the confirmation latency of FLINT in our exper-
iments, by measuring the average block confirmation latency
of the first 50 blocks in the blockchain on all honest nodes.
Figure 4 compares such confirmation latency against that of
BCUBE, under fmax = 0.6. Note that BCUBE’s confirmation
latency, by design, does not depend on f. One can see that for
all f ≤0.2, FLINT achieves a confirmation latency drastically
smaller than BCUBE. For example, for f = 0.2, FLINT gives
a confirmation latency of about 3.8 minutes, which is about
76 times smaller than the confirmation latency of about 292
minutes in BCUBE. For other f values below 0.2, FLINT
reduces confirmation latency by a similar factor.
For larger f between 0.3 and 0.6, FLINT no longer provides
fast confirmation. In fact, because of the extra optimistic
track in FLINT, its confirmation latency is slightly higher than
BCUBE’s. But the difference is rather small — only about 3%.
To provide deeper insights, Figure 3 further plots the
histogram of the confirmation latency values. Namely, for each
honest node, there are 50 confirmation latency values, one for
each of the 50 blocks. We collect all these values from all
honest nodes, and Figure 3 plots the histogram for all such
values altogether.
Figure 3(a) and Figure 3(b) correspond to fast confirma-
tion under f = 0.02 and f = 0.2, respectively. In both
figures, most confirmation latency values concentrate around
3.7 minutes. Such small variance is obviously desirable. In
Figure 3(b), there are small groups of confirmation latency
values around 3.9, 4.2, and 4.4 minutes. These are due to
view changes in HotStuff. Specifically, the first group of
values result from having one view change in HotStuff, due
to the first leader in HotStuff being malicious. Each view
change, including the time out, takes about 15 seconds. The
second group is due to the first two leaders in HotStuff being
malicious, and so on. The probability of the first x leaders in
HotStuff being malicious drops exponentially with x. Hence
the group size quickly decreases.
Similarly, Figure 3(c) and Figure 3(d) plot the histograms
for f = 0.3 and f = 0.6. These are cases where FLINT
provides normal confirmation. The confirmation latency here
is largely determined by how long the normal track takes to
complete, which is independent of f. Hence these two figures
are similar.
Finally, the above results are all for fmax = 0.6. We have
also obtained similar results under fmax = 0.7 and fmax =
0.5, which are not included in the above figures, due to space
constraints. For example for fmax = 0.7, FLINT provides fast
confirmation in about 3.7 minutes for all f ≤0.1. This is
about 352/3.7 ≈95 times smaller, compared to BCUBE’s
confirmation latency of about 352 minutes under fmax = 0.7.
2491
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 11,2025 at 17:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

0
100
200
300
0.5
0.6
0.7
FLINT
BCUBE
throughput (Kbps)
f max=
Fig. 5: Throughput under different fmax.
C. Results on Throughput
FLINT does not aim to improve the throughput of BCUBE.
In fact, because of the extra optimistic track in FLINT, FLINT
will achieve slightly lower throughput than BCUBE. Our
experiments here aim to quantify this. To do so, we first wait
until FLINT generates the first block, then measure the time
needed to generate the next 50 blocks, and finally obtain the
throughput by dividing the total size of these 50 blocks by the
time duration. Following common practices (e.g., [5, 7, 8, 11])
and also BCUBE’s experiments [15], all nodes behave honestly
in these experiments.
Figure 5 compares the throughput of FLINT and that of
BCUBE. As expected, FLINT offers lower throughput than
BCUBE. But the difference is relatively small, around 6% in
all three cases. We feel that this is a small price to pay, for the
up to around 95 times reduction in confirmation latency that
FLINT offers in the common case when f is relatively small.
VIII. DISCUSSIONS ON EXTERNAL VERIFIABILITY
Section III explained that when f ≥
1
2, FLINT does not
provide external/public verifiability. This section explains how
to use FLINT in two application scenarios, despite that it does
not offer external/public verifiability. We further discuss how
a more nuanced version of external/public verifiability could
potentially be offered by FLINT.
Application: Hybrid/consortium blockchain for SCN. Sup-
ply chain management is concerned with the flow of mate-
rials/products/services among various businesses (firms). The
number of firms in a global supply chain network (SCN) can
easily reach thousands [49, 50]. Blockchains offer promising
opportunities to reduce the cost, improve the coordination,
and enhance the traceability in supply chains [51, 52, 53].
To exploit such opportunities, the firms in the SCN can form
a hybrid/consortium blockchain, where each firm runs one or
several full-nodes in the blockchain.3
In terms of security requirements, such a blockchain has
some unique characteristics:
• The firms in SCN often do not trust each other [54]. For
example, they may be competitors of each other, or they
may be in different jurisdictions. In such a context, having
a large fmax as in FLINT is important. A large fmax could
3At blockchain bootstrapping time, stakes can be allocated to the various
firms (or a smaller set of founding members), which correspond to their
respective weightage. Later on, a stake can be split or be transferred from
firm to firm, as needed and via transactions on the blockchain, to allow fine-
grained and dynamic adjustment of weightage.
mean, for example, even if firms in all other jurisdictions
behave maliciously, all the firms in the local jurisdiction
will still have a consistent view on the blockchain state
as long as they are all honest.
• A firm in SCN usually trusts itself (i.e., its own nodes).
Furthermore, each firm is a business and can easily afford
to maintain a full-node. In such a context, if a firm has
some employees as light-clients, such light-clients should
all interact with FLINT via the firm’s own full-node,
which is trusted by the firm itself.
Note that the trust model here is rather different, from the
trust model in a typical application scenario of state machine
replication (SMR) [48]. In SMR, a single firm maintains
multiple servers to provide a replicated service to clients.
There, the main goal is to guard against the potential byzantine
failure of each of the servers, and the firm does not trust any
one server more than the others.
Application: Cryptocurrency system. External verifiability
is usually needed in cryptocurrency systems to support light-
clients. To use FLINT in cryptocurrency systems, we will need
a light-client to obtain the blockchain state from a full-node
that the light-client trusts. Note that different light-clients can
trust different full-nodes, and hence no trusted central authority
is needed. For example, a light-client may choose to trust the
full-node maintained by some local financial firm licensed in
the client’s local jurisdiction. Security is guaranteed for that
client, as long as the full-node that it trusts is not malicious.
A more nuanced version of external verifiability. Section III
explained that when f ≥1
2, it is impossible to provide external
verifiability. While we do aim to tolerate a malicious majority,
one would imagine that in practice, it is unlikely for f to be
always above 1
2. For example, f may be 0.6 due to a large-
scale attack, and then reverts back to 0.1 after the attack is
discovered and measures are taken. Our security analysis have
already shown that FLINT will guarantee Safety and Liveness
throughout such a scenario.
Interestingly, there is also possibility for FLINT to poten-
tially provide a more nuanced version of external verifiability,
in the above scenario. Specifically, FLINT could potentially
offer external verifiability, if f is currently 0.1 (and despite
that previously f was 0.6). Roughly speaking, the intuition is
that when f = 0.1, the optimistic track will succeed, and each
confirmed block will have an accompanying b cert. Recall
that a valid b cert must contain the contribution from at
least one honest node A, assuming that the beacon and the
stake distribution have limited bias. By the Safety property of
FLINT, the blockchain state on this honest node A must be
correct. We can further extend the b cert to include a hash
of previously confirmed blocks. In this way, a valid b cert
could potentially prove to a light-client that the blockchain
state corresponding to this b cert is correct. We leave the
detailed design of such a mechanism to future work.
IX. RELATED WORKS
Blockchains can be viewed as a kind of BFT (byzantine
fault-tolerant) systems. For BFT systems, there have been
2492
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 11,2025 at 17:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

many interesting works on designing optimistic tracks for
the common cases, where certain optimistic conditions are
satisfied.
Blockchain/BFT systems for fmax < 0.5. There is a large
body of works [22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33,
34, 35, 36, 37] on designing BFT systems for fmax < 0.5 and
that come with an optimistic track. Obviously, none of these
can be directly used to achieve our goal, since we aim for
fmax ≥0.5. One may wonder whether it is possible to adapt
these designs to tolerate fmax ≥0.5, for example, by replacing
their normal track with OVERLAYBB [15]. It turns out that in
most of these designs [22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30,
31, 32, 33, 34], the optimistic track and the normal track are
tightly-coupled, making replacement infeasible. A few other
designs [35, 36, 37] have somewhat weaker coupling. But the
optimistic tracks in these designs all require the leader to be
honest [35, 37] (or even all nodes to be honest [36]). This
turns out to be a significant drawback, under our setting of
fmax ≥0.5, as explained in Section II.
There has also been a separate line of research on early-
stopping byzantine agreement/broadcast protocols [55, 56, 57,
58, 59, 60, 61, 62], which can run faster if f is smaller than
fmax. With the exceptions [61, 62], these protocols fundamen-
tally do not aim to deal with fmax ≥0.5. The protocols in
[61, 62] do consider fmax ≥0.5. However, the optimistic
track in [61] is only constant number of rounds faster than
the normal track, and hence has limited practical relevance.
The optimistic path in [62] requires the leader to be honest —
again, Section II explained why this is a significant drawback.
Blockchain/BFT systems for fmax ≥0.5. There are a few
prior blockchain/BFT designs [14, 38] that can tolerate fmax ≥
0.5 and that come with an optimistic track.
Thunderella [14] mentions a theoretical construction of
such a blockchain, without implementation/experiments. In
their construction, there is a special leader node. For their
optimistic track to succeed, the leader needs to be honest.4 A
malicious leader can force Thunderella to resort to the normal
track. Section II already explained why requiring the leader
to be honest is a significant drawback. One way to avoid this
problem is to stick to a good leader, until it becomes bad.
But doing so directly contradicts with the key decentralization
benefit of using blockchains. In particular, the leader does have
some privileges. For example, the leader may favor certain
transactions when proposing new blocks, in a stealthy way to
avoid being classified as “bad”. In comparison, our optimistic
track in FLINT succeeds as long as f is relatively small
(namely f ≤min(1 −fmax, 1
3) −c), and we do not need any
specific node to be honest. Finally, we note that Thunderella’s
optimistic track, if it does succeed, incurs fewer number of
rounds than the optimistic track in FLINT. Hence there is
potential to further combine the instantaneous confirmation in
Thunderella with our FLINT design. Doing so would add an
4In addition, their optimistic track further requires f to be no larger than
(1−fmax)/2. Roughly speaking, we only need f to be smaller than 1−fmax
and we do not need any leader to be honest.
extra “super-optimistic track” into FLINT, beyond the current
optimistic/normal track. We leave the details to future work.
Liu-Zhang et al. [38] have explored designing optimistic
track in secure multi-party computation (MPC). While they do
consider fmax ≥0.5, their protocol is for a rather different con-
text. Their design involves running one byzantine agreement
instance for each party in MPC. If their design were mapped to
our blockchain context, then confirming a block would involve
running one byzantine agreement instance for each member
of the committee, which would be prohibitively expensive.
Their design further uses strong crypto primitives such as fully
homomorphic encryption. These primitives typically require
trusted setup, and it is unclear how to do so in our context.
X. CONCLUSIONS
This work has presented FLINT, a novel blockchain that
can tolerate fmax ≥
1
2 and can give optimistic execution
(i.e., fast confirmation) whenever f is relatively small. We
have proved such properties via a formal security analysis,
and also demonstrated these properties experimentally via an
implementation. We believe that FLINT achieves an important
step forward, in facilitating the broader application/adoption
of blockchains that can tolerate a malicious majority.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
We thank the anonymous IEEE Symposium on Security and
Privacy reviewers for their detailed and helpful comments on
this paper.
DISCLOSURE BY AUTHORS
Ruomu Hou is currently a Research Assistant and also a
Ph.D. student in School of Computing, National University of
Singapore. Haifeng Yu is currently an Associate Professor in
School of Computing, National University of Singapore.
REFERENCES
[1] R. Hou and H. Yu, “Optimistic fast confirmation while tolerating
malicious majority in blockchains,” School of Computing, Na-
tional University of Singapore, Tech. Rep., 2023, also available
at https://dl.comp.nus.edu.sg/handle/1900.100/12.
[2] M. Zamani, M. Movahedi, and M. Raykova, “RapidChain:
Scaling Blockchain via Full Sharding,” in CCS, 2018.
[3] P. Daian, R. Pass, and E. Shi, “Snow white: Robustly reconfig-
urable consensus and applications to provably secure proof of
stake,” in International Conference on Financial Cryptography
and Data Security, 2019.
[4] A.
Kiayias,
A.
Russell,
B.
David,
and
R.
Oliynykov,
“Ouroboros: A provably secure proof-of-stake blockchain pro-
tocol,” in CRYPTO, 2017.
[5] Y. Gilad, R. Hemo, S. Micali, G. Vlachos, and N. Zeldovich,
“Algorand: Scaling byzantine agreements for cryptocurrencies,”
in SOSP, 2017.
[6] E. Androulaki, A. Barger, V. Bortnikov, C. Cachin, K. Chris-
tidis, A. De Caro, D. Enyeart, C. Ferris, G. Laventman,
Y.
Manevich,
S.
Muralidharan,
C.
Murthy,
B.
Nguyen,
M. Sethi, G. Singh, K. Smith, A. Sorniotti, C. Stathakopoulou,
M. Vukoli´c, S. W. Cocco, and J. Yellick, “Hyperledger fabric:
A distributed operating system for permissioned blockchains,”
in EuroSys, 2018.
2493
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 11,2025 at 17:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

[7] H. Yu, I. Nikolic, R. Hou, and P. Saxena, “OHIE: Blockchain
Scaling Made Simple,” in IEEE Symposium on Security and
Privacy, 2020.
[8] L. Luu, V. Narayanan, C. Zheng, K. Baweja, S. Gilbert, and
P. Saxena, “A secure sharding protocol for open blockchains,”
in CCS, 2016.
[9] E. Kokoris-Kogias, P. Jovanovic, L. Gasser, N. Gailly, and
B. Ford, “OmniLedger: A Secure, Scale-Out, Decentralized
Ledger via Sharding,” in IEEE Symposium on Security and
Privacy, 2018.
[10] V. Bagaria, S. Kannan, D. Tse, G. Fanti, and P. Viswanath,
“Prism: Deconstructing the Blockchain to Approach Physical
Limits,” in CCS, 2019.
[11] A. Miller, Y. Xia, K. Croman, E. Shi, and D. Song, “The honey
badger of BFT protocols,” in CCS, 2016.
[12] T.-H. H. Chan, R. Pass, and E. Shi, “Sublinear-round byzan-
tine agreement under corrupt majority,” in IACR International
Conference on Public-Key Cryptography, 2020.
[13] D. Dolev and H. R. Strong, “Authenticated algorithms for
byzantine agreement,” SIAM Journal on Computing, vol. 12,
no. 4, pp. 656–666, 1983.
[14] R. Pass and E. Shi, “Thunderella: Blockchains with optimistic
instant confirmation,” in EUROCRYPT, 2018.
[15] R. Hou, H. Yu, and P. Saxena, “Using throughput-centric byzan-
tine broadcast to tolerate malicious majority in blockchains,” in
IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, 2022.
[16] C. Ganesh and A. Patra, “Broadcast extensions with optimal
communication and round complexity,” in PODC, 2016.
[17] M. Hirt and P. Raykov, “Multi-valued byzantine broadcast: The
t < n case,” in ASIACRYPT, 2014.
[18] K. Nayak, L. Ren, E. Shi, N. H. Vaidya, and Z. Xiang,
“Improved extension protocols for byzantine broadcast and
agreement,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2002.11321, 2020.
[19] G. Tsimos, J. Loss, and C. Papamanthou, “Nearly quadratic
broadcast without trusted setup under dishonest majority,” IACR
Cryptology ePrint Archive, 2020.
[20] J. Wan, H. Xiao, E. Shi, and S. Devadas, “Expected constant
round byzantine broadcast under dishonest majority,” in Theory
of Cryptography Conference, 2020.
[21] I. Abraham, K. Nayak, L. Ren, and Z. Xiang, “Good-case
latency of byzantine broadcast: a complete categorization,” in
PODC, 2021.
[22] M. Castro and B. Liskov, “Practical byzantine fault tolerance,”
in Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementa-
tion, 1999.
[23] R. Kotla, L. Alvisi, M. Dahlin, A. Clement, and E. Wong,
“Zyzzyva: Speculative byzantine fault tolerance,” in SOSP,
2007.
[24] J.-P. Martin and L. Alvisi, “Fast byzantine consensus,” IEEE
Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing, vol. 3,
no. 3, pp. 202–215, 2006.
[25] G. G. Gueta, I. Abraham, S. Grossman, D. Malkhi, B. Pinkas,
M. Reiter, D.-A. Seredinschi, O. Tamir, and A. Tomescu,
“SBFT: a scalable and decentralized trust infrastructure,” in
IEEE/IFIP International Conference on Dependable Systems
and Networks, 2019.
[26] P.-L. Aublin, S. B. Mokhtar, and V. Qu´ema, “RBFT: Redundant
byzantine fault tolerance,” in ICDCS, 2013.
[27] R. Guerraoui, N. Kneˇzevi´c, V. Qu´ema, and M. Vukoli´c, “The
next 700 BFT protocols,” in EuroSys, 2010.
[28] C.
Stathakopoulou,
T.
David,
and
M.
Vukoli´c,
“Mir-
BFT: High-throughput BFT for blockchains,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1906.05552, 2019.
[29] S. Gupta, J. Hellings, and M. Sadoghi, “RCC: Resilient concur-
rent consensus for high-throughput secure transaction process-
ing,” in IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering,
2021.
[30] I. Abraham, D. Malkhi, K. Nayak, L. Ren, and M. Yin, “Sync
HotStuff: Simple and practical synchronous state machine repli-
cation,” in IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, 2020.
[31] D. Malkhi, K. Nayak, and L. Ren, “Flexible byzantine fault
tolerance,” in CCS, 2019.
[32] M. Yin, D. Malkhi, M. K. Reiter, G. G. Gueta, and I. Abraham,
“HotStuff: BFT consensus with linearity and responsiveness,”
in PODC, 2019.
[33] E. Buchman, “Tendermint: Byzantine fault tolerance in the age
of blockchains,” Ph.D. dissertation, 2016.
[34] V. Buterin and V. Griffith, “Casper the friendly finality gadget,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:1710.09437, 2017.
[35] I. Abraham, K. Nayak, L. Ren, and Z. Xiang, “Brief an-
nouncement: Byzantine agreement, broadcast and state machine
replication with optimal good-case latency,” in DISC, 2020.
[36] K. Kursawe, “Optimistic byzantine agreement,” in IEEE Sym-
posium on Reliable Distributed Systems, 2002.
[37] A. Momose, J. P. Cruz, and Y. Kaji, “Hybrid-BFT: Optimisti-
cally responsive synchronous consensus with optimal latency or
resilience.” IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch. Report 2020/406, 2020.
[38] C.-D. Liu-Zhang, J. Loss, U. Maurer, T. Moran, and D. Tschudi,
“MPC with synchronous security and asynchronous responsive-
ness,” in International Conference on the Theory and Applica-
tion of Cryptology and Information Security, 2020.
[39] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,”
2008, https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf.
[40] G. Wood, “Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised trans-
action ledger,” Ethereum project yellow paper, 2014, https:
//ethereum.github.io/yellowpaper/paper.pdf.
[41] M. Apostolaki, A. Zohar, and L. Vanbever, “Hijacking bitcoin:
Routing attacks on cryptocurrencies,” in IEEE Symposium on
Security and Privacy, 2017.
[42] M. Tran, I. Choi, G. J. Moon, V.-A. Vu, and M. S. Kang.,
“A stealthier partitioning attack against bitcoin peer-to-peer
network,” in IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, 2020.
[43] S. Bojja Venkatakrishnan, G. Fanti, and P. Viswanath, “Dan-
delion: Redesigning the bitcoin network for anonymity,” in
Proceedings of the ACM on Measurement and Analysis of
Computing Systems, 2017.
[44] E. Heilman, A. Kendler, A. Zohar, and S. Goldberg, “Eclipse
attacks on bitcoin’s peer-to-peer network,” in USENIX Security
Symposium, 2015.
[45] P.
Chatzigiannis,
F.
Baldimtsi,
and
K.
Chalkias,
“Sok:
Blockchain light clients,” in International Conference on Fi-
nancial Cryptography and Data Security, 2022.
[46] A. Kiayias, N. Lamprou, and A.-P. Stouka, “Proofs of proofs
of work with sublinear complexity,” in International Conference
on Financial Cryptography and Data Security, 2016.
[47] S. Agrawal, J. Neu, E. N. Tas, and D. Zindros, “Proofs of Proof-
of-Stake with Sublinear Complexity,” 2022, arxiv preprint,
arXiv:2209.08673.
[48] F. B. Schneider, “Implementing fault-tolerant services using the
state machine approach: A tutorial,” ACM Computing Surveys,
vol. 22, no. 4, pp. 299–319, 1990.
[49] K. Lavassani, Z. Boyd, B. Movahedi, and J. Vasquez, “Ten-
tier and multi-scale supplychain network analysis of medical
equipment: Random failure and intelligent attack analysis,”
2021, arxiv preprint, arXiv:2104.14046.
[50] J. Wu and J. Birge, “Supply chain network structure and firm
returns,” SSRN Electronic Journal, Jan. 2014.
[51] P. Dutta, T.-M. Choi, S. Somani, and R. Butala, “Blockchain
technology in supply chain operations: Applications, challenges
and research opportunities,” Transportation Research Part E:
Logistics and Transportation Review, vol. 142, 2020.
[52] V. Gaur and A. Gaiha, “Building a transparent supply chain,”
Harvard Business Review, 2020.
[53] R. Cole, M. Stevenson, and J. Aitken, “Blockchain technology:
2494
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 11,2025 at 17:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

implications for operations and supply chain management,”
Supply Chain Management, Jun. 2019.
[54] M. J. Amiri, D. Agrawal, and A. E. Abbadi, “Permissioned
blockchains: Properties, techniques and applications,” in SIG-
MOD, 2021.
[55] D. Dolev, R. Reischuk, and H. R. Strong, “Early stopping in
byzantine agreement,” JACM, vol. 37, no. 4, pp. 720–741, 1990.
[56] P. Berman, J. A. Garay, and K. J. Perry, “Optimal early
stopping in distributed consensus,” in International Workshop
on Distributed Algorithms, 1992.
[57] I. Abraham and D. Dolev, “Byzantine agreement with optimal
early stopping, optimal resilience and polynomial complexity,”
in STOC, 2015.
[58] G. Goren and Y. Moses, “Byzantine consensus in the common
case,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.06087, 2019.
[59] A. W. Krings and T. Feyer, “The byzantine agreement problem:
optimal early stopping,” in Hawaii International Conference on
Systems Sciences, 1999.
[60] J. A. Garay and Y. Moses, “Fully polynomial byzantine agree-
ment for n > 3t processors in t + 1 rounds,” SIAM Journal on
Computing, vol. 27, no. 1, pp. 247–290, 1998.
[61] M. Fitzi and J. Nielsen, “On the number of synchronous rounds
sufficient for authenticated byzantine agreement,” in DISC,
2009.
[62] T. Albouy, D. Frey, M. Raynal, and F. Taiani, “Good-case early-
stopping latency of synchronous byzantine reliable broadcast:
The deterministic case,” in DISC, 2022.
[63] D. Boneh, M. Drijvers, and G. Neven, “Compact multi-
signatures for smaller blockchains,” in ASIACRYPT, 2018.
APPENDIX I: HOW FLINTBB INVOKES HOTSTUFF
In OptimisticTrack(), all nodes in committeeH invoke
HotStuff [32] to get a return value.5 We call this return value
as the one-shot decision from HotStuff. Strictly speaking,
the HotStuff protocol [32] actually generates a sequence of
decisions. We next explain how to get the one-shot decision
from HotStuff.
Getting one-shot decision. For HotStuff to generate the
sequence of decisions, each potential decision is coordinated
by a leader, which means there is a sequence of leaders. If the
leader is honest, HotStuff is guaranteed to adopt that leader’s
input as the decision. If the leader is malicious, then HotStuff
may either get a decision, or may fail to get any decision, in
which case HotStuff does a view change and proceeds to the
next leader.
In our context, we invoke HotStuff on committeeH, which
is chosen randomly by the beacon. The committee members
already have a (random) ordering among themselves, when
chosen. We simply use the ordered members in committeeH
as the sequence of leaders needed by HotStuff.
To get the one-shot decision, each node simply runs Hot-
Stuff to first get the sequence of decisions. Recall from
Section V-E the definition of usable values. The very first
usable value in that sequence of decisions will be the one-shot
decision that we need. This one-shot decision is guaranteed to
be generated (if it has not yet been), when an honest node A1
becomes the leader in HotStuff and if A1 feeds a usable value
5When sending messages in HotStuff, nodes in committeeH communi-
cate directly, rather than via the overlay network. To do so, the nodes in
committeeH propagate their IP addresses first and then run HotStuff.
as its input into HotStuff. Hence, if at least one honest node
feeds a usable value as its input into HotStuff, then HotStuff
must return some one-shot decision, which is a usable value.
On a given node, after HotStuff generates the one-shot
decision, HotStuff will continue to run in the background to
help other nodes to generate their one-shot decisions. HotStuff
will be stopped when a fast output is generated, or when the
optimistic track times out, whichever is earlier.
A simple optimization. We further use a simple optimization
to get the one-shot decision faster, by letting nodes without
usable values adopt usable values as their inputs. Specifically,
let v1 and v2 be the originally-intended input values to the
invocations of HotStuff by nodes A1 and A2, respectively.
HotStuff asks for the input value from a node, only when that
node becomes the leader in HotStuff. Now imagine that v1 is
a usable value, while v2 is not. In parallel with the execution
of HotStuff, A1 will propagate v1 on the overlay network. If
A2 receives this v1 before A2 becomes the leader in HotStuff,
then A2 will later feed v1 instead of v2 into HotStuff when
A2 becomes the leader. Note that this whole mechanism does
not involve any changes to the internals of HotStuff.
There are two kinds of usable values so far: i) Ψ together
with a valid p cert, and ii) a block signed by the proposer.
During the propagation of the usable values, when a node
sees two different blocks both signed by the proposer, the
node immediately forms a c cert from those two (conflicting)
signatures, and will now use Ψ|c cert as its input to HotStuff.
This c cert is a conflict certificate, which can convince other
nodes that the proposer is malicious. When the proposer is
malicious, we can always safely use Ψ as the fast output.
Hence the special block Ψ together with a valid c cert now
becomes the third kind of usable value. The node creating
the c cert will also propagate Ψ|c cert to all other nodes.
Finally, c cert has a smaller size than p cert, while p cert
has a smaller size than a block. Hence if a node receives
multiple usable values (i.e., Ψ|c cert, Ψ|p cert, and blocks
signed by proposer) during the propagation of usable values,
for better performance, it simply adopts the smallest-sized
usable value among those.
The above simple optimization has been fully taken into
account, in our pseudo-code and our formal security analysis
in Section VI.
APPENDIX II: PSEUDO-CODE AND FORMAL GUARANTEES
OF CERTBB
Recall from Section V-D that we obtain CERTBB, by
adapting OVERLAYBB. The adaptation will be relative sim-
ple, if properly driven by the key conceptual connection in
Section V-D. Algorithm 4 provides the complete pseudo-code
of CERTBB. For convenience in the pseudo-code, for any
value h, we view null as a valid aggregate signature on
h with zero signer. Most of the steps in Algorithm 4 are
2495
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 11,2025 at 17:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Algorithm 4 CERTBB (committeeN, fast output). // This
algorithm requires a precondition: Throughout its execution,
there is at most one value for which any honest node sees
a valid b cert for that value. We will prove that when we
invoke this algorithm, this precondition always holds.
71: accepted ←null; m ←|committeeN|;
72: if fast output.block ̸= null then
73:
h ←hash(fast output.block);
74:
send ⟨h, fast output.b cert, null⟩to myself;
75: end if
76: // The following loop consists of round 1 through 2d(m + 1).
77: for t ←1; t ≤2d(m + 1); t++ do
78:
receive messages in the form of ⟨hash, cert, sig⟩from all
my neighbors and myself;
79:
discard a message if cert is not valid b cert for hash, or if
sig is not valid signature on hash; // null is viewed as a valid
signature with 0 signer
80:
among all remaining messages, let ⟨hash0, cert0, sig0⟩be
the message where sig0 has the largest number of signers (with
arbitrary tie-breaking);
81:
if (I am in committeeN) and (2d(|sig0| + 1) ≥t) then
82:
accepted ←hash0;
83:
sig1 ←combine sig0 and my own signature on hash0;
84:
end if
85:
if (I am not in committeeN) and (2d(|sig0| + 1) ≥t + d)
then
86:
accepted ←hash0;
87:
sig1 ←sig0;
88:
end if
89:
send ⟨hash0, cert0, sig1⟩to all my neighbors;
90:
wait for δ time;
91: end for
92: return accepted;
directly from OVERLAYBB [15].6 Instead of reasoning about
these individual steps, we directly give the final guarantees of
CERTBB in the following lemmas, whose proofs are deferred
to our technical report [1]:
Lemma 5. Consider any execution of CERTBB where all
honest nodes invoke CERTBB with the same committeeN. If
some honest committee member A in committeeN accepts
h in some round tA where 1 ≤tA ≤2d(m + 1), then
for every honest node B, there exists some tB such that
1 ≤tB ≤2d(m + 1) and B accepts h in round tB.
Lemma 6. Consider any execution of CERTBB where all
honest nodes invoke CERTBB with the same committeeN.
If some honest node A that is not in committeeN accepts h
in some round tA where 1 ≤tA ≤2d(m + 1), then for every
honest committee member B in committeeN, there exists some
tB such that 1 ≤tB ≤2d(m + 1) and B accepts h in round
tB.
Lemma 7. [Final guarantees of CERTBB] If all honest nodes
invoke CERTBB with the same parameter committeeN, with
6Note that CERTBB only needs to disseminate the hash of the fast outputs
from the certificate-broadcasters, which are of small size. OVERLAYBB
instead disseminates the entire block from the block proposer. Because of
this additional difference, part of the design in OVERLAYBB for dealing with
(large) blocks is no longer needed in CERTBB.
committeeN containing at least one honest node, then:
• The return value from CERTBB must be the same on all
honest nodes.
• If some honest node X invoked CERTBB (committeeN,
x output)
with
x output.block
̸=
null
and
with
x output.b cert
being
a
valid
b cert
for
x output.block, then hash(x output.block) must be
the return value from CERTBB on all honest nodes.
• If the return value from CERTBB on an honest node is
not null, then that honest node must have seen a valid
b cert for that return value.
APPENDIX III: USING AGGREGATE SIGNATURES
As an optimization, FLINTBB uses aggregate signatures
to reduce signature size. Aggregate signatures are used for
p cert, a cert, and b cert. In addition, OVERLAYBB [15]
internally uses aggregate signatures. CERTBB, which is
adapted from OVERLAYBB, similarly uses aggregate signa-
tures. HotStuff [32] internally uses threshold signatures. For
simplicity, FLINTBB replaces those with aggregate signatures
as well. For example, one possible aggregate signature scheme
would be the MSP-pop scheme [63] with BLS381. This
aggregate signature scheme does not need trusted setup, and it
allows each node to independently generate its public keys.7
Each node can also add its own signature to an existing
aggregate signature, without interacting with other nodes. Each
aggregate signature in this scheme has 96 bytes. FLINTBB
uses a bit vector to indicate the signers of an aggregate sig-
nature. For aggregate signatures in a cert, b cert, p cert,
and HotStuff, we need |committeeH| bits in the vector. For
aggregate signatures in OVERLAYBB and CERTBB, we need
|committeeN| bits.
APPENDIX IV: PROOF FOR THEOREM 4
Proof. We only prove the theorem for c ≤min(1 −fmax, 1
3),
which trivially generalizes to larger c. With the given c and
fmax, we set β = fmax + 0.95c and α = min(1 −β, 1
3) −c′,
with c′ being any constant in (0, 0.02c]. Note that we must
have 0 < α < min(1 −β, 1
3) ≤0.5 ≤β < 1.
We first claim that, except with negligible probability:
• If f ∈[0, fmax], then every committeeN used in the
(polynomial length) execution has some honest member.
• If f ∈[0, fmax], then every committeeH used in the
(polynomial length) execution has no more than β frac-
tion of malicious members.
• If f ∈[0, min(1 −fmax, 1
3) −c], then every committeeH
used in the (polynomial length) execution has no more
than α fraction of malicious members.
We prove these three properties one by one:
• First, we adopt the simple approach from Snow White [3]
to capture the effects of beacon bias, if any. Recall that
the committee members for slot i are chosen by using
7MSP-pop requires each node to have a proof-of-possession of the private
key. Following [15], we require such a proof to be included as a transaction
in the blockchain before the corresponding public key can be used.
2496
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 11,2025 at 17:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

hash(i|si) as the randomness. Here si is the beacon used
for that slot, and the hash function is viewed as a random
oracle. Since the length of the execution is poly(κ), there
can be at most poly(κ) different beacon values that the
adversary can try. We will be pessimistic, and will let
the adversary freely choose which one of those poly(κ)
beacon values should be used for slot i. Doing so then
fully captures the effect of possible beacon bias.8
Consider a given slot and a given beacon value among
the poly(κ) possible beacon values. If f ≤fmax, then
the probability that committeeN has no honest member
is at most (fmax)|committeeN| ≤(fmax)κ ≤0.99κ =
exp(−Ω(κ)). There can be at most poly(κ) possible
beacon values and at most poly(κ) slots. Since poly(κ) ·
poly(κ) · exp(−Ω(κ)) = exp(−Ω(κ)), a union bound
immediately shows that except with negligible proba-
bility, regardless of which beacon is used to choose
committeeN in each slot, committeeN always has at
least one honest member.
• This property can be proved in a similar (but easier) way
as the previous property. We omit the details for brevity.
• Consider
a
given
slot
and
a
given
beacon
value.
If
f
∈
[0, min(1 −fmax, 1
3) −c],
then
E[f ′]
=
f
≤
min(1 −fmax, 1
3) −c. In turn,
Pr[f ′
>
α]
=
Pr[f ′
>
min(1 −β, 1
3) −c′]
≤
Pr[f ′
>
min(1 −fmax −0.95c, 1
3) −0.02c]
≤
Pr[f ′
>
(min(1 −fmax, 1
3) −c) + 0.03c]
=
(by Chernoff bound) exp(−Ω(|committeeH|))
=
exp(−Ω(κ)). Same as earlier, a union bound again
shows that except with negligible probability, f ′ is
always no larger than α.
Our remaining proof will condition upon the above three
properties. We use a simple induction on the slot number to
prove Safety, Liveness, and Fast-confirmation. Assume the
theorem holds up to slot i. For slot i + 1, all the conditions in
Theorem 2 are satisfied. By Theorem 2’s Agreement property,
A1 and A2 must generate the same output from their respective
invocations of FLINTBB for slot i + 1. Hence Safety follows.
By Termination in Theorem 2, after A1 invokes FLINTBB
for slot i + 1, FLINTBB must eventually output. This output
will then be the confirmed block in slot i + 1. Furthermore,
by Validity in Theorem 2, if the proposer is honest and if
its block is received by every honest node by Line 12, then
the confirmed block must be the proposer’s block. Hence
Liveness follows. Finally, if f ∈[0, min(1 −fmax, 1
3) −c],
then since committeeH has no more that α fraction of
malicious members, all conditions in Theorem 3 are satisfied.
By Theorem 3, A1’s invocation of FLINTBB must generate
an output within the timeout value in Algorithm 1. Hence
Fast-confirmation follows.
8In practice, the beacon generation mechanism that we adopt from
BCUBE [15] actually bounds possible beacon bias. Hence our analysis here
is rather pessimistic.
APPENDIX V: CHOOSING PARAMETERS IN FLINT
FLINT has a number of internal parameters. This section
explains how these parameters can be chosen in a systematic
way (instead of as “magic numbers”). Our discussion uses
fmax = 0.5, 0.6, and 0.7 as examples.
Size
of
committeeN.
FLINT
uses
two
committees,
committeeN
and
committeeH,
for
each
slot.
Here
committeeN needs to have at least one honest member even
when f = fmax. FLINT selects the members of committeeN
in the same way as BCUBE [15] (see Section IV). BCUBE
also has the same requirement on committeeN, namely,
containing at least one honest member. Hence we directly
adopt the committee size from BCUBE [15]. Specifically,
we use |committeeN| = 45, 55, and 80, respectively, for
fmax = 0.5, 0.6, and 0.7.
We refer the reader to [15] on the details of how BCUBE
obtains these committee sizes, but the following provides
some intuitions. If the committee members were all chosen
uniformly randomly, then with the above committee sizes, the
probability of the committee not having any honest member
would be at most about 2−40. But the committee members
are actually chosen using beacons with potential bias. BCUBE
has provided a detailed analysis showing that, with its beacon
generation mechanism, the bias in the beacon roughly ampli-
fies the error probability by at most about 210, which gives
BCUBE a final error probability of about 2−30. The exactly
same analysis applies to FLINT.
Size of committeeH. Let f ′ be the fraction of malicious
members in committeeH. We want f ′ to be no larger than
β, even when f = fmax. Here β is also a tunable parameter
in FLINT. In practice, we want β to be as small as possible,
so that α can be larger.
Hence we choose the size of committeeH and the value
of β together. Specifically, we need to calculate the smallest
β such that Pr[f ′ > β], which will be the error probability,
is small. We aim for a final error probability of 2−40 here,
so that this error probability is dominated by the earlier 2−30
error probability from committeeN. As explained earlier, the
bias in the committee selection process may amplify the error
probability by a factor of about 210, as compared to the ideal
case where the committee members were chosen uniformly
randomly. Hence we calculate the smallest β such that Pr[f ′ >
β] < 2−50, assuming that the committee members are chosen
uniformly randomly. Compensating for the bias will then give
the desired final error probability of 2−50 · 210 = 2−40.
Figure 6 plots such β values, as a function of committee size
and fmax. There is a clear trade-off between β and committee
size. To strike a balance, we simply choose 1000 as the
committee size for committeeH, which leads to β = 0.810,
0.720, 0.626 respectively for fmax = 0.7, 0.6, 0.5.
Thresholds for various certificates. We set the parameter α
in FLINT to be α = min(1−β, 1
3)−0.001, so that α is smaller
than min(1−β, 1
3). We set the thresholds for the various certs
as functions of α and β, by taking the middle point in the
2497
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 11,2025 at 17:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1E+2
1E+3
1E+4
1E+5
fmax=0.7
fmax=0.6
fmax=0.5
β
102
103
104
105 size of
committeeH
Fig. 6: The smallest β value such that Pr[f ′ > β] < 2−50.
respective possible ranges in Table II. For example, we set
tb = β+(1−α)
2
.
Invocation frequency of FLINTBB: Overview. Similar to
BCUBE [15] and as explained in Section IV, FLINT invokes
FLINTBB periodically, where each invocation does not nec-
essarily wait for previous invocations to complete. A higher
invocation frequency gives smaller inter-block time, but also
requires more bandwidth.
To determine how frequently to invoke FLINTBB, we
reserve sufficient bandwidth for each FLINTBB invocation, to
ensure timely delivery of messages sent at Line 32, 44 and 45
in Algorithm 1 through 3. We make sure that such reservation
will be sufficient even under f = fmax. (Our reservation also
fully takes into account the bandwidth needed for relaying
those messages in the overlay, where applicable.) We focus
on these high-priority messages, since Section VI has shown
that for the security of FLINT to hold, we only need the
timely delivery of these messages. The remaining low-priority
messages in FLINT (e.g., messages sent by HotStuff) only
serve to enable optimistic execution when f is small, and do
not affect security. Those messages can be delivered with best-
effort. When f is small, the high-priority messages will end up
using only a small fraction of the bandwidth reserved for them.
Such reserved, but unused, bandwidth can then be utilized by
those low-priority messages, which in turn enables fast output.
Such generation of fast output in FLINT will be demonstrated
in our experiments later.
Invocation frequency of FLINTBB: Detailed calculation.
We now provide the detailed calculation on how frequently
FLINT should invoke FLINTBB. Recall that we want to
reserve sufficient bandwidth for each FLINTBB invocation,
to ensure timely delivery of messages sent at Line 32, 44
and 45 in Algorithm 1 through 3. Let x be the time between
two successive invocations of FLINTBB. The following uses
fmax = 0.7 as an example to explain how we determine the
bandwidth needs, which eventually leads to x = 105 seconds
under our setting of 20Mbps available bandwidth on each
node. (In comparison, BCUBE [15] uses x = 98 seconds under
such a setting.)
We first consider the bandwidth needed at Line 45. Line 45
invokes CERTBB (i.e., Algorithm 4). In Algorithm 4, the only
line that consumes bandwidth is Line 89. The message sent at
Line 89 contains a hash (20 bytes), a b cert (241 bytes), and
an aggregate signature (106 bytes). The last part is 106 bytes,
since the signature itself is 96 bytes, and we need another 80
bits to indicate which members in committeeN are signers.
Each b cert has a size of at most 241 bytes, which consists of
a 20-byte hash, a 96-byte aggregate signature, and a 1000-bit
array to indicate which members in committeeH are signers.
Hence the message has total 20 + 241 + 106 = 367 bytes.
A node needs to send this messages to all its neighbors, and
in our later experiments, each node has at most 42 neighbors.
Finally, Algorithm 4 has a total 2d(m + 1) rounds, where
each round lasts δ time. Hence at any given point of time,
there will be at most ⌈2d(m + 1)δ/x⌉active invocations of
Algorithm 4. Thus the total bandwidth needed for the message
sent at Line 89 (and hence at Line 45) is at most w1 = 367×42
δ
·
⌈2d(m+1)δ
x
⌉.
We move on to Line 32. At Line 32, by our discussion in
our technical report [1] on how nodes relay messages in the
overlay network, each node at most sends/relays two a cert’s.
Each a cert has the same size as a b cert, which is 241
bytes. Let z be the timeout value in Algorithm 1. Line 32
will only be invoked between time t0 + 2∆and time t0 + z,
where t0 is the time when Algorithm 2 starts. Hence at any
given point of time, there are at most ⌈(z −2∆)/x⌉active
invocations of Algorithm 2 that may execute Line 32. By a
similar reasoning as for Line 45, the total bandwidth needed
for Line 32 is at most w2 = 2×241×42
δ
· ⌈z−2∆
x
⌉.
Next for Line 44, we directly quote the results from [15].
Theorem 4 in [15] gives the total execution time x1 of
OVERLAYBB, which is at most 21120 seconds under our later
experimental setting. Appendix II in [15] provides a formula
for calculating the maximum number x2 of bytes that a node
need to send in a round, which is at most 124572 bytes under
our later experimental setting. Hence the bandwidth needed at
Line 44 is at most w3 = x2
δ · ⌈x1
x ⌉.
Finally, we ensure that the sum w1+w2+w3 does not exceed
90% of the available bandwidth on each node, to allow some
leeway. Hence given available bandwidth B on each node, we
find the smallest x such that w1 + w2 + w3 ≤0.9B, and this
will be the x value we use in FLINT. Plugging in B = 20Mbps
eventually gives x = 105 seconds.
Our experiments also consider fmax = 0.6 and fmax = 0.5.
Following the above process, we use x = 86 and 79 seconds
for those two cases, respectively. (In comparison, BCUBE [15]
uses x = 81 and 74 seconds for fmax = 0.6 and 0.5.)
2498
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 11,2025 at 17:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

