Sabre: Sender-Anonymous Messaging with Fast Audits
Adithya Vadapalli
University of Waterloo
adithya.vadapalli@uwaterloo.ca
Kyle Storrier
University of Calgary
kyle.storrier@ucalgary.ca
Ryan Henry
University of Calgary
ryan.henry@ucalgary.ca
Abstract—We present Sabre, a family of sender-anonymous
messaging protocols with instances supporting both Twitter-
like anonymous bulletin boards and Secure Drop-like mail-
boxes. Both variants provide strong anonymity while poten-
tially scaling to anonymity sets in the tens of millions and
beyond. Sabre protocols inherit their basic structure from
Riposte and Express while replacing those schemes’ linear-
cost audit protocols with new logarithmic-cost ones. Sabre
also incorporates a host of innovations that improve concrete
performance by an order of magnitude or more under “ideal”
circumstances, while providing asymptotic speedups in the
face of resource exhaustion-style DoS attacks.
I. Introduction
The Internet was supposed to be a great equalizer; instead,
it has grown to be a great surveillance apparatus. Today,
netizens are routinely identified, tracked, profiled, censored,
and silenced by countless shadowy figures, organizations,
governments, identity thieves—and even algorithms. Far
from the bastion of free speech espoused by the web’s early
pioneers, the modern Internet is, in many respects, dystopic
to extremes that would make even Orwell blush.
The causes are systemic: the core Internet protocols were,
quite simply, not designed with privacy in mind. This ap-
athetic approach to privacy permeates through to the ap-
plication layer, culminating in today’s burgeoning Internet
marketplace in which consumers are the product. If we are to
have any hope of reneging on this Faustian bargain, it will be
through the development and deployment of protocols that
respect the privacy and autonomy of all users.
One tool that can help in this regard is sender-anony-
mous messaging (SAM) protocols, including recent works
Riposte [11] and Express [14]. Such protocols can form the
backend for, among other things, whistleblower drop boxes,
anonymous email systems, or Twitter-like broadcast media
with strong and provable privacy guarantees. This paper
proposes a novel SAM protocol that subsumes and fortifies
both Riposte and Express, promising equivalent privacy and
functionality for clients alongside lower overhead and supe-
rior resistance to denial-of-service attacks.
A. Sender-anonymous messaging
Prior work in this space has considered one of two pri-
mary settings for SAM protocols: (i) the sender-anonymous
bulletin-board model and (ii) the sender-anonymous mailbox
model. Protocols that operate in this first model—exemplified
by Riposte [11]—support Twitter-like broadcast messaging
while severing the link between authors and their tweets.
Protocols that operate in the second model—exemplified by
Express [14]—support Secure Drop-like mailboxes into which
whistleblowers can leak documents and tips anonymously to
journalists, law enforcement, and watchdogs.
Sender-anonymous bulletin boards: In the bulletin-board
model, two or more semi-honest and non-colluding servers
jointly host a shared, sparse database (the “bulletin board”)
comprising a large number of write locations called buckets.
Senders can write messages into arbitrary buckets without
disclosing to the servers (or the subsequent readers) which
particular messages they penned and which were penned by
others. For this to work, senders must always write their
messages to uniform random buckets—potentially clobber-
ing messages previously written to those buckets by other
senders. Therefore, the number of buckets must be large
enough that the probability of accidental collisions is low,
implying that the bulletin board requires Ω(𝑚2) buckets to
accommodate 𝑚written messages sans any expected colli-
sions. Readers obtain messages of interest from the bulletin
board either “in the clear” (an undeniably leaky proposition)
or via some oblivious means such as private information
retrieval (PIR) [9].
Sender-anonymous mailboxes: In the mailbox model, two
or more semi-honest and non-colluding servers jointly host
a collection of registered “mailboxes”. Senders can deposit
documents into specific mailboxes if and only if they know
the corresponding mailbox addresses—cryptographically long,
unpredictable bit strings—without disclosing to the servers
or mailbox owners which particular documents they de-
posit into which particular mailboxes. The use of registered
mailboxes obviates the need both for PIR and for collision-
avoidance and -recovery strategies of the sort required in the
bulletin-board model, potentially enabling constructions that
are significantly more performant and scalable. However, it
comes at the cost of limiting the use cases to single-recipient
applications like email and secure drop boxes.
Relationship with onion routing and mix networks: SAM
protocols solve a problem that is related to, yet distinct
from those solved by onion routers and mix networks. Onion
routing systems like Tor [12] support session-based, bidirec-
tional anonymous links to facilitate low-latency interactive
communications such as instant messaging or web browsing;
mix networks like MCMix [2] likewise support bidirectional
anonymity, but target communications that can tolerate rela-
tively high latency such as email. In both cases, the emphasis
is on mitigating the threat of traffic analysis. By contrast,
SAM protocols seek only to hide the association between
senders and the messages they send—a much less ambitious
goal. The upshot of this narrow focus is that it enables SAM
protocols to provide very concrete anonymity guarantees (in
contrast to the comparatively “fragile” guarantees of onion
routing) while imposing only modest latency (in contrast to
the high latency imposed by mix networks).
1
1953
2022 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP)
© 2022, Adithya Vadapalli. Under license to IEEE.
DOI 10.1109/SP46214.2022.00077
2022 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) | 978-1-6654-1316-9/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/SP46214.2022.9833601
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on October 03,2025 at 15:45:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

B. Denial-of-service attacks
SAM constructions in both the bulletin-board and mail-
box models may be susceptible to denial of service (DoS)
attacks, wherein a hostile entity seeks to prevent others from
distributing messages via the service. Such an attacker can
employ at least two distinct tactics: (i) submit malformed
write requests in a bid to corrupt the message database, or
(ii) unleash an army of Sybils masquerading as legitimate
senders in a bid to overwhelm the servers’ resources.
Effective defences against the first style of DoS attacker
represents the primary technical innovation of prior work on
SAM protocols; the latter style of DoS attacker, by contrast,
has received scant mention in the literature. At first blush,
this might seem a reasonable state of affairs, as virtually
all Internet-connected systems are (unavoidably) susceptible
to some flavour of resource exhaustion-style DoS attacks.
Nevertheless, we contend that the threat of such attacks is
especially acute in SAM protocols, where they can serve
as indirect means for silencing or deanonymizing would-
be bulletin board posters and whistleblowers attempting to
leak documents to a secure drop box. The sender-anony-
mous mailbox model—where writers must target registered
mailboxes using cryptographically long and unpredictable
mailbox addresses—brings about the potential to efficiently
detect and drop write requests by DoS attackers while still
processing honest writes.1 Yet, looking ahead, we observe
that Express, the state-of-the-art SAM protocol in the mailbox
model, actually grants would-be resource exhaustion-style
DoS attackers an exponential amplification factor: with just
Θ(lg𝑛) ultralightweight operations, a DoS attacker can force
the servers to perform Ω(𝑛) comparatively expensive oper-
ations. (By comparison, Sabre requires each server to do a
small constant factor less work than the DoS attacker.)
C. Overview of the state of the art
We now provide a brief overview of the state-of-the-art
SAM constructions in the bulletin board and mailbox mod-
els. Both constructions leverage so-called distributed point
functions (DPFs) to implement oblivious writes, employing
probabilistic audit protocols based on secure multiparty com-
putation or zero-knowledge proofs to weed out malformed
DPFs that would otherwise corrupt the database. We give an
in-depth treatment of DPFs in Section II-A; for now, it suffices
to regard a DPF as a compact, functional representation
of a secret-shared 1-hot vector in which the sole non-zero
component’s value is the message to write and its position
the bucket or mailbox at which to write it.
1) Riposte:
The state-of-the-art system in the sender-
anonymous bulletin-board model is the Riposte scheme of
Corrigan-Gibbs, Boneh, and Mazières [11]. Riposte uses a
simple O(√𝑛)-sized DPF to implement oblivious writes into
a bulletin board consisting of 𝑛buckets. To obtain good
concrete communication and computation costs, the authors
1Here we implicitly assume that mailbox registration is somewhat Sybil
resistant; e.g., prospective mailbox registrants may need to prove their
identities or pay service fees to the SAM servers.
propose using a bulletin board with just 𝑛= 19.5𝑚buckets
(in contrast to the Ω(𝑚2) buckets dictated by the birthday
bound) so that any given message (out of 𝑚) will collide with
another message for around 5% of the writes.2
Riposte’s audit protocol comes in two variants: (i) a
lightweight, 3-server variant based on probabilistic batch
testing and secure (2+1)-party computation, and (ii) a com-
paratively heavyweight ℓ-server variant based on so-called
seed-homomorphic pseudorandom generators and zero-knowl-
edge proofs of knowledge. We describe here only the lighter-
weight 3-server variant.
Consider a 3-server Riposte instance with security param-
eter 𝜆∈N (say, 𝜆= 128) whose bulletin board comprises
𝑛= 19.5𝑚buckets each capable of holding a single 𝐿-bit
message and, for ease of exposition, suppose that 𝑛= ℎ𝑤
with 𝜆ℎ≈𝐿𝑤. Further, let 𝐺: F2𝜆→(F2𝐿)1×𝑤be a crypto-
graphically secure pseudorandom generator (PRG). To post a
message 𝑀∈F2𝐿to the bulletin board, the sender
1) samples a random bucket index 𝑖∈R {0, . . . ,𝑛−1} and
then rewrites it as 𝑖= 𝑞𝑤+ 𝑟with 0 ≤𝑞< ℎand
0 ≤𝑟< 𝑤;
2) samples two column vectors ®𝑠0, ®𝑠1 ∈R (F2𝜆)ℎ×1 having a
1-hot sum ®𝑠0 + ®𝑠1 whose sole non-zero element resides
in the 𝑞th row and has a least-significant bit of 1;
3) computes ®𝑣B 𝐺(®𝑠0[𝑞]) +𝐺(®𝑠1[𝑞]) + (𝑀®𝑒𝑟), where ®𝑠0[𝑞]
and ®𝑠1[𝑞] respectively denote the 𝑞th rows of ®𝑠0 and ®𝑠1,
and where ®𝑒𝑟∈(F2𝐿)1×𝑤is the standard basis vector
having a 1 in its 𝑟th column; and then, finally,
4) sends (®𝑠𝑏, ®𝑣) to server 𝑏for 𝑏= 0, 1.
Upon receiving (®𝑠𝑏, ®𝑣), server 𝑏forms the matrix
𝑀𝑏B

𝐺(®𝑠𝑏[0])
𝐺(®𝑠𝑏[1])
...
𝐺(®𝑠𝑏[ℎ−1])

+ ®𝑣·

lsb(®𝑠𝑏[0])
lsb(®𝑠𝑏[1])
...
lsb(®𝑠𝑏[ℎ−1])

∈(F2𝐿)ℎ×𝑤,
which it adds component-wise to the bulletin board to
effectuate the write.
An easy calculation verifies that 𝑀0 + 𝑀1 ∈(F2𝐿)ℎ×𝑤has
message 𝑀in its (𝑞,𝑟)th component and zero elsewhere—
provided the sender generated the (®𝑠𝑏, ®𝑣) honestly, which the
servers confirm via the audit protocol. In the audit protocol,
server 𝑏sums the rows of 𝑀𝑏to get ®𝑚𝑏∈(F2𝐿)1×𝑤, and
then all three servers run a secure (2 + 1)-party computation
to verify that ®𝑚0 + ®𝑚1 is indeed 1-hot. Notice that auditing
requires O(𝑛𝐿) work by each of server 0 and server 1.
a) Express: The state-of-the-art system in the sender-
anonymous mailbox model is the Express scheme of Es-
kandarian, Corrigan-Gibbs, Zaharia, and Boneh [14]. Express
uses O(lg𝑛)-sized DPFs of Boyle, Gilboa, and Ishai [5] to
2As a hedge against this aggressively high collision rate, Riposte users can
write ordered pairs of the form (𝑀, 𝑀2). This way, if a collision places two
messages 𝑀and ¯𝑀in the same bucket, both recipients will receive the pair
(𝑀+ ¯𝑀, 𝑀2+ ¯𝑀2) from which they can recover 𝑀−¯𝑀= (𝑀2+ ¯𝑀2) (𝑀+ ¯𝑀)−1
and, thereby, solve for 𝑀and ¯𝑀.
2
1954
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on October 03,2025 at 15:45:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

implement oblivious writes into pre-registered mailboxes.
Specifically, a recipient registers a mailbox with the servers
and receives a uniform 𝜆-bit string addr (the “mailbox ad-
dress”). A sender can deposit a message into the mailbox if
and only if it knows addr. If the registered mailboxes form
a negligibly sparse subset of {0, 1}𝜆, then attempts to guess
a valid address fail with overwhelming probability.
Express requires (and supports) just two servers. Con-
sider an Express instance with security parameter 𝜆∈N
(say, 𝜆= 128) having 𝑛registered mailboxes addressed
by addr1, . . . , addr𝑛. To deposit a message 𝑀∈F2𝐿into
the mailbox addressed by addr𝑖, the sender samples a DPF
representation (dpf0, dpf1) of 𝑀®𝑒addr𝑖, where ®𝑒addr𝑖∈(F2𝐿)1×2𝜆
is the standard basis vector having a 1 in its (addr𝑖)th column,
and then it sends dpf𝑏to server 𝑏for 𝑏= 0, 1.
Upon receiving dpf𝑏, server 𝑏expands it to the vector
𝑀𝑏∈(F2𝐿)1×𝑛in which the 𝑗th component is obtained by
evaluating dpf𝑏at addr𝑗for 𝑗= 1, . . . ,𝑛; server 𝑏adds 𝑀𝑏to
its mailbox database to effectuate the write.
An easy calculation verifies that 𝑀0 + 𝑀1 ∈(F2𝐿)1×𝑛has
message 𝑀in its 𝑖th column and zero elsewhere—provided
the sender generated (dpf0, dpf1) honestly, which the servers
confirm via the audit protocol. In the audit protocol, the
two servers engage in a secret-shared non-interactive proof
(SNIP) to verify that 𝑀0 + 𝑀1 is (at-most-)1-hot. Notice that
auditing requires O(𝑛𝜆) work—i.e., O(𝑛) evaluations of the
DPF costing O(𝜆) length-doubling PRG evaluations a piece—
by each of server 0 and server 1.
D. De l’Épée au Sabre
We present Sabre, a family of SAM protocols with in-
stances operating in both the bulletin-board and mail-
box models. Sabre protocols inherit much of their basic
structure from Riposte and Express, but incorporate key
innovations that improve not only concrete performance
and scalability under normal operations, but also resilience
to resource exhaustion-style DoS attacks in the mailbox
model.
From a technical perspective, the primary difference is how
Sabre implements auditing to identify malformed write re-
quests: the senders construct compact (2- or 3-verifier) SNIPs
that “directly” attest to the well-formedness of the DPFs they
submit. We construct the SNIPs in a novel paradigm we call
multi-verifier MPC-in-the-head, which generalizes the (single-
verifier) MPC-in-the-head paradigm of Ishai, Kushilevitz,
Ostrovsky, and Sahai [19] to achieve good soundness at low
cost in scenarios where two or more distinct verifiers can
check two or more distinct subsets of simulated interaction
transcripts. In the sender-anonymous mailbox model, Sabre
also uses a new trick to decouple the cost of DPF evaluation
from the bit length of the mailbox addresses. Together, these
modifications yield speedups that exceed an order of magni-
tude relative to Express when all the write requests are “well-
formed” and increase significantly—with the performance
gap growing exponentially in the number of mailboxes—in
the presence of resource-exhaustion DoS attacks.
𝑣
(𝜀)
𝑣
(0)
𝑣
(00)
0
0
𝑣
(01)
0
0
𝑣
(1)
𝑣
(10)
0
𝒚
𝑣
(11)
0
0
Fig. 1: Binary-tree representation of the generalized
point function with point (𝑥5,𝑦) ∈𝐷× 𝑅, |𝐷| = 23.
As with both Riposte and Express, the correctness of Sabre
requires that all servers faithfully audit all incoming DPFs—
that is, none of these protocols can operate in the presence
of Byzantine servers. However, like Express, Sabre’s reliance
on non-interactive (SNIP-based) auditing deprives would-
be malicious servers of the opportunity to deviate from
the protocol in ways that might leak information about
the mapping between writers and the messages they have
penned.
E. Our Contributions
The main contribution of this paper is the design and
evaluation of the Sabre family of SAM protocols. Sabre
protocols are more performant than prior work by a (signifi-
cant) constant factor when there is no attacker and they are
asymptotically faster in the presence of DoS attacks. Toward
the construction of Sabre, we make several contributions of
independent interest, including
1) an efficient secure (2 + 1)-party computation for the
oblivious evaluation of O(lg𝑛)-sized DPFs;
2) fast SNIPs from “multi-verifier” MPC-in-the-head;
3) non-interactive zero-knowledge arguments of knowl-
edge for the well-formedness of O(lg𝑛)-sized DPFs;
4) parallel (bitsliced) implementations of fixed-key LowMC
and O(lg𝑛)-sized DPF evaluation; and
5) a novel, constant-complexity mailbox address check.
II. Building Blocks
This section gives a brief overview of the various building
blocks used to construct Sabre.
A. Distributed point functions
A 𝑡-out-of-ℓdistributed point function, or (𝑡, ℓ)-DPF, is
a compact (𝑡, ℓ)-threshold shared representation of a so-
called (generalized) point function. Sabre and the related SAM
constructions we consider exclusively use (2, 2)-DPFs (that is,
the special case of 𝑡= ℓ= 2); thus, for brevity, we generally
omit the (2, 2)- qualifier and refer merely to “DPFs”.
1) (Non-distributed) point functions: Fix a domain 𝐷⊆
{0, 1}∗and range 𝑅(a ring with unity), and let 0 and 1 denote
the additive and multiplicative identities in 𝑅.
3
1955
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on October 03,2025 at 15:45:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Definition 1. The point function at 𝑥∈𝐷over 𝑅is the
function P𝑥: 𝐷→𝑅defined via
P𝑥(𝑖) B
(
1 if 𝑖= 𝑥, and
0 otherwise.
That is, the point function at 𝑥∈𝐷over 𝑅is 0 everywhere
except at 𝑥where it is 1. Alternatively, one can think of it as
a “functional representation” of a vector from the standard
basis of a |𝐷|-dimensional module over 𝑅.
A “generalized” point function is just a point function
scaled by some value from its range.
Definition 2. If P𝑥: 𝐷→𝑅is the point function at 𝑥∈𝐷
over 𝑅and if 𝑦∈𝑅is a fixed scalar, then P𝑥,𝑦: 𝑖↦→𝑦·P𝑥(𝑖) is
the generalized point function with point (𝑥,𝑦) ∈𝐷× 𝑅.
Point functions as binary trees: Suppose 𝐷⊆{0, 1}∗is
a well-ordered set with cardinality 2ℎ. One can naturally
represent the generalized point function with point (𝑥,𝑦) ∈
𝐷× 𝑅by a complete binary tree of height ℎhaving one
leaf node labelled “𝑦” and all other leaf nodes labelled “0”.
To evaluate the point function on input 𝑥𝑗∈𝐷—the “𝑗th-
smallest” element of 𝐷—begin at the root and parse the
binary-string representation of 𝑗bit-by-bit from left to right,
iteratively traversing either to the left child (if the next bit
of 𝑗is 0) or to the right child (if the next bit of 𝑗is 1)
of the current node until eventually arriving at a leaf. The
label on this leaf defines the output of the point function on
input 𝑥𝑗. Figure 1 depicts the binary-tree representation of
the generalized point function with point (𝑥5,𝑦) ∈𝐷× 𝑅,
where 𝐷has cardinality 23.
Before describing distributed point functions, we elaborate
on some properties of such binary-tree representations that
will prove useful in constructing the Sabre audit protocol. We
first observe that such a tree comprises two distinct kinds of
nodes, which we refer to as type-0 nodes and type-1 nodes. For
brevity, we sometimes use 0-nodes and 1-nodes to reference
type-0 nodes and type-1 nodes, respectively.
Definition 3. A node is of type 0 if it is either (i) a leaf with
label “0”, or (ii) a non-leaf and both of its children are of type
0; the node is of type 1 if it is either (i) a leaf with a label
other than “0”, or (ii) a non-leaf with one type-1 child and one
type-0 child.
The next observation follows from Definition 3.
Observation 1. If a tree is rooted at a 0-node, then all of its
leaves are of type 0; if it is rooted at a 1-node, then exactly one
of its leaves is of type 1 and all others are of type 0.
The proof of Observation 1 is by induction on the tree
height ℎ; it appears in Appendix A.
Observation 1 implies that any tree rooted at a 1-node
contains exactly one path consisting entirely of 1-nodes from
the root to some leaf node (and, moreover, that all 1-nodes
reside along this path). We refer to such a path as a type-1
path through the tree (or a 1-path for short). For example,
the highlighted path in Figure 1 is the 1-path: every node on
it is type 1 while every node not on it is type 0.
The above notions of 1-nodes and 1-paths give us some
alternative ways to characterize the representation of gener-
alized point functions as binary trees.
Corollary 1. The following three characterizations are all
equivalent: A complete binary tree of height ℎrepresents a
generalized point function if and only if
1) exactly one leaf has type 1 and all others have type 0;
2) its root has type 1; or
3) it contains a 1-path of height ℎ.
The first characterization in Corollary 1 is appealing be-
cause it most directly maps to the definition of a generalized
point function (as stated in Definition 2); however, looking
ahead, the third characterization will prove particularly con-
venient because it references just ℎnodes on a path from
the root to a leaf, as opposed to all 2ℎleaves. (The second
references just one node, yet the property of being a 1-node
implicitly references a 1-path rooted at that node.)
2) 2-out-of-2 distributed point functions: We now present a
formal definition of (2, 2)-DPFs based on those of Gilboa and
Ishai [17] and Boyle, Gilboa, and Ishai [5], [6].
Definition 4. A (2, 2)-distributed point function, or (2, 2)-
DPF, is a pair of PPT algorithms (Gen, Eval) defining an
infinite family of secret-shared representations of generalized
point functions; that is, given (i) a security parameter 𝜆∈N,
(ii) a domain 𝐷and range 𝑅, and (iii) a distinguished point
(𝑥,𝑦) ∈𝐷× 𝑅, we have
1. Correctness: If (dpf0, dpf1) ←Gen(1𝜆, 𝐷, 𝑅; 𝑥,𝑦), then,
for all 𝑖∈𝐷,
Eval(dpf0,𝑖) + Eval(dpf1,𝑖) B
(
𝑦if 𝑖= 𝑥, and
0 otherwise.
2. Simulatability: There exists a PPT simulator S such that,
for any given domain 𝐷, range 𝑅, distinguished point
(𝑥,𝑦) ∈𝐷×𝑅, and bit 𝑏∈{0, 1}, the distribution ensembles

S(1𝜆, 𝐷, 𝑅; 𝑏)
	
𝜆∈N
and

dpf𝑏
 (dpf0, dpf1) ←Gen(1𝜆, 𝐷, 𝑅; 𝑥,𝑦)
	
𝜆∈N
are computationally indistinguishable.
The dpf𝑏output by Gen are called (2, 2)-DPF keys; the 𝑥-
coordinate of the distinguished point is the distinguished input.
3) The Boyle-Gilboa-Ishai DPF construction: The most com-
pact DPF representation in the literature is due to Boyle,
Gilboa, and Ishai [6]. Their construction uses a length-
doubling PRG to define a pair of “secret-shared” binary trees
that collectively represent some generalized point function.
Let 𝐺2× : {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}∗be any length-doubling PRG and
𝐺2𝐿: {0, 1}∗→F2𝐿be a PRG with 𝐿-bit outputs. Boyle et
al.’s construction follows from the simple observation that
4
1956
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on October 03,2025 at 15:45:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

𝐺2×(𝑟0) = 𝐺2×(𝑟1) if and (essentially) only if 𝑟0 = 𝑟1; that is,
length-doubling PRGs map additive shares of 0 to additive
shares of (0, 0), while they map additive shares of 𝑥≠0 to
additive shares of (𝑦,𝑧) such that both 𝑦≠0 and 𝑧≠0 with
a probability overwhelming in |𝑥|.
In the context of binary-tree representations of generalized
point functions, this roughly equates to observing that 𝐺2×
preserves the property of being a 0-node. The challenge is
now to extend this so that 𝐺2× preserves node type for all
nodes in the tree, be they the 0-nodes that comprise most of
the tree or the 1-nodes along the path from the root to the
distinguished point. To this end, the DPF keys include one
𝜆-bit correction word (CW) per tree level, which is specially
crafted to map exactly one child of the 1-node on that level to
a 0-node. Finally, 𝐺2𝐿“stretches” each node in the final (i.e.,
leaf) level into a pseudorandom 𝐿-bit value, and then a final
𝐿-bit CW maps the leaf-level 1-node to the desired output 𝑦∈
𝑅. We elaborate on the semantics of CWs when constructing
our (2 + 1)-party computation for DPF auditing in Section V;
for now, we emphasize only that this approach yields very
compact DPF keys, each comprising a length-ℎ(i.e., length-
⌈lg|𝐷|⌉) sequence of 𝜆-bit values, plus one additional 𝐿-bit
value to map the leaf-level 1-node to 𝑦∈𝑅.
B. Secure multiparty computation
A secure multiparty computation (MPC) protocol is a cryp-
tographic protocol through which two or more mutually
distrusting parties jointly compute some function over their
private inputs while disclosing nothing about their inputs
beyond what is deducible from the shared output. In addition
to the functionality being computed, MPC protocols are
typically parameterized by (i) the number “ℓ” of parties to
the computation, and (ii) the size “𝑡+1” of coalition needed to
violate the privacy of non-coalition members’ inputs.
1) Secure (2 + 1)-party computation: One special case of
MPC is so-called secure (2+1)-party computation (also known
as server-aided 2-party computation), wherein two mutually
distrusting parties enlist the help of a semi-honest third
party (who provides no input and receives no output) to
assist in the computation. Such protocols have received
considerable attention due to their superior performance
relative to “pure” 2-party protocols or ℓ-party protocols
secure against stronger attackers. The Sabre audit protocols
leverage (2+1)-party computation based on Du-Atallah mul-
tiplication [13], a variant of the well-known Beaver-triplet
multiplication [4] that leverages the semi-honest third party
to replace oblivious transfers (or homomorphic encryption)
with “free” operations. A brief description of Du-Atallah
multiplication appears in Appendix B.
2) MPC-in-the-head: MPC-in-the-head [7], [16], [19], [20]
is a conceptual framework for constructing zero-knowledge
proofs of knowledge (ZKPoKs) from MPC building blocks.
ZKPoKs based on MPC-in-the-head leverage the dual obser-
vations that (i) MPC protocols are simulatable—even from
the perspective of an “insider” (i.e., an attacker who controls
a size-𝑡subset of the parties to the computation)—and
(ii) dishonest behaviour by a coalition in an MPC protocol
execution necessarily yields incontrovertible evidence in the
coalition members’ joint view.
Consider an MPC protocol Π for the witness-checking
procedure of some NP relation 𝑅. In light of the preceding
two observations, one can transform Π into a ZKPoK for 𝑅
as follows: Given a (public) instance 𝐼and (private) witness
𝑤such that 𝑅(𝐼,𝑤) = 1, the prover secret shares 𝑤among
ℓimaginary computation parties, and then it simulates a
complete run of Π among these imaginary parties, up to
and including the point where the functionality attests to the
validity of 𝑤by outputting 1. The prover commits (say, via
Merkle tree) to the simulated view of each imaginary party,
presenting the resulting commitments to the verifier.
If the prover is attempting to cheat, then incontrovertible
evidence must exist in at least one coalition’s view; thus, the
verifier attempts to uncover such evidence by challenging
the prover to reveal the views of a random size-𝑡coalition
of parties. To amplify the probability of detecting cheating—
a probability that varies based on the collusion threshold 𝑡
and number of imaginary parties ℓ—the prover and verifier
engage in multiple parallel instances of this procedure, each
one operating on a “fresh” simulation.
3) The LowMC block cipher: LowMC [1] is a block cipher
specially designed for secure computation settings like MPC
protocols based on linear secret sharing, fully homomor-
phic encryption, or ZKPoKs. In such applications, linear
operations are generally regarded as “free”, while non-linear
operations (e.g., the multiplication of two or more unknowns)
are costly; thus, LowMC strives to balance multiplicative
complexity and depth on one hand with concrete security on
the other. In the context of (2+1)-party computation (and as-
sociated MPC-in-the-head), multiplicative complexity dictates
communication cost (transcript size) while multiplicative
depth dictates round complexity (dependency-chain length
for the verifier). Jumping ahead, Sabre employs LowMC to
construct the length-doubling PRGs in its DPFs.3 Several
tuning knobs allow protocol designers to tailor LowMC’s
performance for an intended application; we empirically
measure various knob settings in Appendix C.
III. System Design
This section presents the system design of Sabre in both
the sender-anonymous bulletin-board model (Sabre-BB) and
the sender-anonymous mailbox model (Sabre-M). Appen-
dix D describes four distinct variants of Sabre-M: One that
closely mimics the design of Express; a second that adaptively
modifies the mapping between DPFs and mailbox addresses
to improve efficiency; and a third and fourth that push the
optimization in the second variant to its logical extreme. The
first three variants serve as “stepping stones” toward Sabre-M
(which is what we describe in the main text).
Each of Sabre-BB and Sabre-M is instantiable in three
ways (deriving from three ways to instantiate the audit
3The leaf-stretching PRG need not be amenable to fast (2 + 1)-party
computation or SNIPs and, therefore, uses a faster AES-based construction.
5
1957
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on October 03,2025 at 15:45:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

protocol); namely, as (i) a 2-server version using “2-verifier
MPC-in-the-head”, (ii) a 3-server version using “3-verifier
MPC-in-the-head”, or (iii) a 3-server version directly using
secure (2 + 1)-party computation. Except where otherwise
specified, all comparisons of Sabre’s performance to those
of Riposte and Express refer to a 2-server instantiation—
which provides the strongest security guarantees but the
poorest performance of the three options. That said, we begin
with a high-level description that abstracts auditing into an
inscrutable black box, before circling back to flesh out the
details of auditing in Section V. The reader should bear in
mind that Sabre auditing requires just O(𝜆lg𝑛) work to the
Ω(𝜆𝑛) work required by Riposte and Express auditing, and
that Sabre auditing renders judgement before the servers ever
“evaluate” their DPF keys (a linear-cost operation). Indeed,
Sabre’s improved DoS resistance stems from Sabre servers’
ability to rapidly audit incoming DPF keys.
A. Sabre for sender-anonymous bulletin boards
Consider a (2- or 3-server) Sabre-BB instance with security
parameter 𝜆∈N (say, 𝜆= 128) and a bulletin board compris-
ing 𝑛= 19.5𝑚buckets each capable of holding a single 𝐿-bit
message. (Thus, we have domain 𝐷= {0, . . . ,𝑛−1} and range
𝑅= F2𝐿.) The design of Sabre-BB tightly parallels that of
Riposte, save for the adoption of Boyle et al.’s more compact
DPFs and the new audit protocol: A sender who wishes to
post a message 𝑀∈F2𝐿to the bulletin board
1) samples a random bucket index 𝑖∈R 𝐷;
2) samples (dpf0, dpf1) ←Gen(1𝜆, 𝐷, 𝑅; 𝑖, 𝑀); and then
3) sends dpf𝑏to server 𝑏for 𝑏= 0, 1.
Upon receiving and auditing dpf𝑏, server 𝑏constructs the
vector 𝑀𝑏∈(F2𝐿)1×𝑛in which the 𝑗th component equals
Eval(dpf𝑏, 𝑗) for 𝑗= 0, . . . ,𝑛−1; server 𝑏adds 𝑀𝑏to its
bulletin board database to effectuate the write.4 We remark
that 𝑀𝑏is efficiently computable (with a cost dominated by
𝑛−1 length-doubling PRG evaluations and 𝑛evaluations of
the leaf-stretching PRG) using the so-called full-domain eval-
uation procedure described by Boyle et al. [6; §3.2.3].
As per Definition 4, 𝑀0 + 𝑀1 ∈(F2𝐿)1×𝑛has message 𝑀
in its 𝑖th column and zero elsewhere—provided the sender
generated (dpf0, dpf1) honestly, which the servers confirm via
any of the three audit protocol instantiations.
B. Sabre for sender-anonymous mailboxes
We now describe Sabre-M, the most performant variant
of Sabre in the mailbox model. (Recall that we describe
three additional “stepping-stone” variants in Appendix D.)
Consider a (2- or 3-server) Sabre-M instance with security
parameter 𝜆∈N (say, 𝜆= 128) and 𝑛mailboxes each capable
of holding a single 𝐿-bit message. (Thus, we have domain
𝐷= {0, . . . ,𝑛−1} and range 𝑅= F2𝐿). The design of Sabre-M
closely follows that of Express.
4As in Riposte, Sabre-BB writers can employ Newton sums, writing pairs
(𝑀, 𝑀2) to hedge against inevitable 2-way collisions (cf. Footnote 2).
Mailbox registration: As with Express, prospective recipi-
ents must pre-register a mailbox with the servers. In Sabre-M,
the servers assign mailbox addresses deterministically using
a pseudorandom function (PRF) 𝐹: {0, 1}𝜆× 𝐷→{0, 1}𝜆;
specifically, to register the 𝑖th mailbox, the servers compute
addr𝑖←𝐹( ˜𝑘,𝑖) using a long-lived secret key ˜𝑘∈{0, 1}𝜆
held by the servers, and then they return (𝑖, addr𝑖) to the
registrant.
Writing: To write a message 𝑀∈F2𝐿to the 𝑖th mailbox, the
sender must know (𝑖, addr𝑖). Armed with this pair, it
1) samples (dpf0, dpf1) ←Gen(1𝜆, 𝐷, 𝑅; 𝑖, 𝑀);
2) samples additive sharings [𝑖] and [addr𝑖] of the distin-
guished input 𝑖and mailbox address addr𝑖; and then
3) sends (dpf𝑏, [𝑖]𝑏, [addr𝑖]𝑏) to server 𝑏for 𝑏= 0, 1.
Notice that the distinguished input to the DPF is 𝑖
∈
{1, . . . ,𝑛}, in contrast to addr𝑖∈{0, 1}𝜆as used in Express.
The discussion and experiments in Appendix D highlight the
performance benefits of this difference.
Upon receiving and auditing (dpf𝑏, [𝑖]𝑏, [addr𝑖]𝑏), server 𝑏
expands dpf𝑏to the vector 𝑀𝑏∈(F2𝐿)1×𝑛using the full-
domain evaluation procedure [6; §3.2.3], and then it adds 𝑀𝑏
to its mailbox database to effectuate the write.
Auditing: Auditing in Sabre-M comprises two distinct
steps, namely (i) checking that (dpf0, dpf1) is a well-formed
DPF key pair (having distinguished input 𝑖), and (ii) verifying
that [addr𝑖] correctly shares the 𝑖th mailbox address.
For the former step (i.e., auditing the DPFs), Sabre-M uses
any one of the three versions described in Section V; for
the latter step (i.e., verifying the mailbox address) it uses a
constant-complexity protocol described in Section IV. Thus,
the entire auditing procedure has complexity logarithmic
in 𝑛, allowing the servers to rapidly reject bogus write
requests from a would-be resource-exhaustion DoS attacker.
The benefits of rapid auditing are evident in our experimental
evaluation in Section VII.
IV. Verifying Mailbox Addresses
This section describes how Sabre-M servers verify that
incoming requests target valid mailbox addresses. The idea
is quite simple: Recall that, along with dpf𝑏, the sender
submits shares [𝑖]𝑏and [addr𝑖]𝑏of the distinguished input
𝑖and the associated mailbox address addr𝑖. Also recall that
the servers hold in common a secret key ˜𝑘∈{0, 1}𝜆for
a PRF 𝐹: {0, 1}𝜆× 𝐷→{0, 1}𝜆. Intuitively, 𝐹defines a
deterministic mapping from the distinguished inputs 𝑖∈𝐷to
pseudorandom mailbox addresses addr𝑖B 𝐹( ˜𝑘; 𝑖); thus, the
servers can use [𝑖] and their knowledge of ˜𝑘to verify that
[addr𝑖] shares the “correct” mailbox address.
To this end, the servers input [𝑖] to 𝐹to compute a
fresh sharing [addr′
𝑖], after which they hold two independent
sharings: one, [addr𝑖], of the sender-claimed address and
another, [addr′
𝑖], of the server-computed address. Server 𝑏
6
1958
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on October 03,2025 at 15:45:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

computes [𝐴]𝑏B [addr𝑖]𝑏+ [addr′
𝑖]𝑏for 𝑏= 0, 1, and then
the pair check if
𝐴= [𝐴]0 + [𝐴]1
= ([addr𝑖]0 + [addr′
𝑖]0) + ([addr𝑖]1 + [addr′
𝑖]1)
= ([addr𝑖]0 + [addr𝑖]1) + ([addr′
𝑖]0 + [addr′
𝑖]1)
= addr𝑖+ addr′
𝑖
= 0,
where (because arithmetic is in F2𝜆) the last equality holds if
and only if addr𝑖= addr′
𝑖. In particular, the check succeeds if
and only if 𝐴0 = 𝐴1, which the servers can confirm alongside
the DPF-verification portion of the audit protocol. Performing
address checking early—before incurring the O(lg𝑛) cost of
DPF verification—ensures that Sabre-M servers can always
reject malicious write requests faster than a would be DoS
attacker can produce them (see Section VII-C).
V. The Sabre Audit Protocol
The audit protocol verifies the well-formedness of DPF keys
submitted by writers in both the bulletin-board and mailbox
model variants of Sabre. It is instantiable in three distinct
ways: as (i) a secure (2+1)-party computation, (ii) a 3-verifier
MPC-in-the-head SNIP, or (iii) a 2-verifier MPC-in-the-head
SNIP. The latter two instantiations build on the first to pro-
vide progressively stronger security guarantees. Specifically,
(i) by recasting the (2 + 1)-party computation as a 3-verifier
MPC-in-the-head SNIP, the second instantiation maintains
the efficiency of the first while removing the threat of a
malicious server deviating from the MPC in a bid to violate
sender-anonymity, and (ii) by eliminating one of the verifiers,
the 2-verifier SNIP makes sender anonymity contingent on a
strictly weaker non-collusion assumption (at the expense of
some nontrivial communication and computation overhead).
We stress that—similar to Riposte and Express—all three
instantiations still require semi-honest (and non-colluding)
servers to guarantee protocol correctness.
A. Secure (2 + 1)-party auditing
Following Corollary 1 (in Section II-A), the (2 + 1)-party
audit protocol demonstrates the existence of a 1-path from
the root of the binary-tree representation of a DPF to the leaf
corresponding to its distinguished input. It does so via an
alternating sequence of two simple functionalities: (i) obliv-
ious length-doubling PRG evaluation and (ii) conditional
swapping on the components of an ordered pair.
1) Oblivious length-doubling PRG:
The oblivious PRG
evaluation functionality ([𝑥], [𝑦])
←
FPRG([𝑧]) uses the
Matyas-Meyer-Oseas (MMO) one-way compression func-
tion [24]: Given a block cipher Enc with 𝜆-bit blocks, define
𝐺2× : {0, 1}𝜆→{0, 1}𝜆× {0, 1}𝜆via
𝐺2×(𝑧) B  Enc𝐾(𝑧) ⊕𝑧, Enc𝐾(𝑧⊕1) ⊕(𝑧⊕1) ,
(1)
where 𝐾is a fixed (publicly known) key. Sabre uses fixed-key
LowMC as the block cipher in Equation (1). We remark that
using a fixed, publicly known key in LowMC eliminates all
non-linear operations outside of the S-boxes, and it provides
new opportunities for preprocessing-based optimizations in-
volving round-key matrices. The S-boxes operate on ordered
triples of bits, and each S-box in a round can be evaluated
(in parallel) using just three 1-bit multiplications a piece,
leveraging their representation in algebraic normal form [1;
Appendix C]:
(𝑎, 𝑏, 𝑐) ↦→(𝑎⊕𝑏𝑐, 𝑎⊕𝑏⊕𝑎𝑐, 𝑎⊕𝑏⊕𝑐⊕𝑎𝑏) .
2) Conditional swapping: The conditional swap function-
ality ([¯𝑥], [¯𝑦]) ←FSWAP
 ([𝑥], [𝑦]), [𝐵] uses the standard
trick for conditional branching in MPC. Servers 0 and 1
respectively hold (2, 2)-additive shares of (i) an ordered pair
(𝑥,𝑦) and (ii) a selection bit 𝐵on which to condition the
swap. They compute a sharing [𝑧] of 𝑧= 𝑥+𝐵(𝑦−𝑥), and then
output ([¯𝑥], [¯𝑦]) = ([𝑧], [𝑥] + [𝑦] −[𝑧]). An easy calculation
verifies that ( ¯𝑥, ¯𝑦) = (𝑥,𝑦) if 𝐵= 0 and ( ¯𝑥, ¯𝑦) = (𝑦,𝑥) if 𝐵= 1.
Figure 2 illustrates the conditional swap protocol.
3) Non-private DPF traversal: Recall from Section II-A3
that Boyle-Gilboa-Ishai DPF keys have the form
dpf𝑏B (𝑣
(𝜀)
𝑏, cw
(1), . . . , cw
(ℎ)) ∈(F2𝜆)ℎ× F2𝐿,
where ℎis the tree height. In any honestly generated DPF key
pair, the sequence of CWs cw
(1), . . . , cw
(ℎ) is common to both
keys while the 𝑣
(𝜀)
𝑏are sampled independently at random (sub-
ject to having opposite least-significant bits). We therefore
refer to key pairs having identical CW sequences as plausible
key pairs, reflecting the fact that adjudicating their validity is
more involved than simple plaintext matching among values
held in common by the two shareholders.
For a given bit string 𝑖∈{0, 1}∗of length 𝑗< ℎ, we write
𝑣
(𝑖∥0)
𝑏
and 𝑣
(𝑖∥1)
𝑏
to denote respectively the left and right children
of node 𝑣
(𝑖)
𝑏in the tree share induced by dpf𝑏, so that the
parenthesized superscript on any given node indicates the
sequence of left and right traversals needed to arrive at that
node starting from 𝑣
(𝜀)
𝑏. In the audit protocol, the servers will
relate corresponding pairs (𝑣
(𝑖)
0 , 𝑣
(𝑖)
1 ) with nodes 𝑣
(𝑖) = 𝑣
(𝑖)
0 + 𝑣
(𝑖)
1
on a “reconstructed” tree. Definitionally, a given key pair is
well-formed if and only if this reconstructed tree represents a
generalized point function; the servers can appeal to Bullet 3
of Corollary 1 (in Section II-A) to check this.
To see how this works, we first look at (non-private)
node traversal in Boyle-Gilboa-Ishai DPFs. To traverse from
𝑣
(𝑖)
𝑏
(with |𝑖| = 𝑗) to its 𝐵th child, 𝑣
(𝑖∥𝐵)
𝑏
, first parse 𝑣
(𝑖)
𝑏
as
(𝑠
(𝑖)
𝑏, ·, flag
(𝑖)
𝑏) ∈F2𝜆−2 × F2 × F2. From here:
1) compute (child
(𝑖∥0)
𝑏, child
(𝑖∥1)
𝑏
) ←𝐺2×(𝑠
(𝑖)
𝑏∥00);
2) parse child
(𝑖∥𝐵)
𝑏
as (𝑠
(𝑖∥𝐵)
𝑏
, ·,𝑇
(𝑖∥𝐵)
𝑏
) ∈F2𝜆−2 ×F2 ×F2 and cw
(𝑗)
as (cw
(𝑗),𝑡
(𝑗)
1 ,𝑡
(𝑗)
0 ) ∈F2𝜆−2 × F2 × F2;
3) compute 𝑠
(𝑖∥𝐵)
𝑏
←𝑠
(𝑖∥𝐵)
𝑏
+  cw
(𝑗) · (1+flag
(𝑖)
𝑏) and flag
(𝑖∥𝐵)
𝑏
←
𝑇
(𝑖∥𝐵)
𝑏
+ (𝑡
(𝑗)
𝐵· flag
(𝑖)
𝑏); and then
4) output 𝑣
(𝑖∥𝐵)
𝑏
B (𝑠
(𝑖||𝐵)
𝑏
, ·, flag
(𝑖∥𝐵)
𝑏
) ∈F2𝜆× F2 × F2 as the
child.5
5For a comprehensive treatment of this construction, we defer to the
original paper by Boyle et al. [6; §3.2.2].
7
1959
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on October 03,2025 at 15:45:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

g
server 0
([𝑥]0, [𝑦]0), [𝐵]0
[𝑧]0 B [𝑥]0 + [𝐵]0
 [𝑥]0 −[𝑦]0 + ([𝑥]1 −[𝑦]1 + 𝑟1)
−𝑟0([𝐵]1 + 𝑠1) + 𝑟0𝑠1 + 𝑡
Output: ( ¯𝑥0, ¯𝑦0) B ([𝑧]0, [𝑥]0 + [𝑦]0 −[𝑧]0)
g
server 1
([𝑥]1, [𝑦]1), [𝐵]1
[𝑧]1 B [𝑥]1 + [𝐵]1
 [𝑥]1 −[𝑦]1 + ([𝑥]0 −[𝑦]0 + 𝑟0)
−𝑟1([𝐵]0 + 𝑠0) + 𝑟1𝑠0 −𝑡
Output: ([¯𝑥]1, [¯𝑦]1) B ([𝑧]1, [𝑥]1 + [𝑦]1 −[𝑧]1)
g
server 2
(𝑟0, 𝑠0, 𝑟0𝑠1 + 𝑡)
(𝑟1, 𝑠1, 𝑟1𝑠0 −𝑡)
([𝑥]0 −[𝑦]0 + 𝑟0, [𝐵]0 + 𝑠0)
([𝑥]1 −[𝑦]1 + 𝑟1, [𝐵]1 + 𝑠1)
Fig. 2: (2 + 1)-party realization of the conditional swap functionality ([¯𝑥], [¯𝑦]) ←FSWAP
 ([𝑥], [𝑦]), [𝐵].
Notice that whether or not to apply cw
(𝑗) depends entirely
on flag
(𝑖); consequently, if corresponding nodes induced by
a plausible key pair ever collide, then so too must all of
their descendants. In the spirit of Definition 3, we call such
colliding-node pairs 0-pairs; we likewise call non-colliding
pairs 1-pairs if either (i) they are at the leaf layer, or (ii) their
children comprise both a 0-pair and a 1-pair. The next
theorem is a direct consequence of these definitions.
Theorem 1. Suppose (dpf0, dpf1) is a plausible key pair
inducing (𝑣
(𝑖)
0 , 𝑣
(𝑖)
1 ) and consider the node 𝑣
(𝑖) B 𝑣
(𝑖)
0 + 𝑣
(𝑖)
1
in
the reconstructed tree. The following both hold:
1) 𝑣
(𝑖) is a 0-node if and only if (𝑣
(𝑖)
0 , 𝑣
(𝑖)
1 ) is a 0-pair; and
2) 𝑣
(𝑖) is a 1-node if and only if (𝑣
(𝑖)
0 , 𝑣
(𝑖)
1 ) is a 1-pair.
Our (2+1)-party audit protocol combines Theorem 1 with
Corollary 1 to check the well-formedness of a given (plau-
sible) key pair: Given their respective keys together with
a bitwise sharing of the (purported) distinguished input 𝑖,
the servers (i) traverse to both children of the root using
the above procedure, (ii) reconstruct the (1 −𝐵
(1))th child
to ensure it is a 0-node, and then (iii) recurse on the
height-(ℎ−1) tree rooted at the (𝐵
(1))th child.
If any (1 −𝐵
(𝑗))th child along the path from the root to
the leaf layer is not of type 0, then 𝑖does not define a 1-
path in the reconstructed tree and the servers reject the key
pair; otherwise, as per Bullet 3 of Corollary 1, the servers
conclude that (dpf0, dpf1) constitutes a well-formed DPF with
distinguished input 𝑖.
4) MPC-based auditing: The (2 + 1)-party audit protocol
implements the strategy just described via alternating appli-
cations of the oblivious PRG (§V-A1) and conditional swap
(§V-A2) functionalities, woven together with some additional
Du-Atallah multiplications (§II-B1).
For each 𝑏= 0, 1, server 𝑏receives as input (i) its DPF key
dpf𝑏B (𝑣
(𝜀)
𝑏, cw
(1), . . . , cw
(ℎ)) and (ii) a (2, 2)-additive share
[𝑖]𝑏B ([𝐵
(1)]𝑏, . . . , [𝐵
(ℎ)]𝑏) of the (purported) distinguished
input 𝑖. Server 2 assists with the computation but receives
no input and produces no output.
To begin, servers 0 and 1 compare CW sequences to ensure
they are auditing a plausible key pair; if so, server 𝑏uses its
inputs and 𝐺2× to non-obliviously traverse to both children of
the root; i.e., it computes
(𝑣
(0)
𝑏, 𝑣
(1)
𝑏) B  (𝑠
(0)
𝑏, ·, flag
(0)
𝑏), (𝑠
(1)
𝑏, ·, flag
(1)
𝑏)
via Steps (1)–(4) from Section V-A3, and then it secret shares
both halves of the output with server (1 −𝑏).
Define 𝑖0 = 𝜀and, for each 𝑗= 1, . . . ,ℎ, define 𝑖𝑗=
𝑖𝑗−1∥𝐵
(𝑗) and ¯𝑖𝑗= 𝑖𝑗−1∥(1 −𝐵
(𝑗)). (Thus, 𝑖𝑗is the length-𝑗
prefix of 𝑖and ¯𝑖𝑗is the length-(𝑗−1) prefix of 𝑖followed
by an incorrect 𝑗th bit.) Upon receiving its shares from
server (1−𝑏), server 𝑏now holds both ([𝑣
(𝑖0 ∥0)
0
]𝑏, [𝑣
(𝑖0 ∥1)
0
]𝑏) and
([𝑣
(𝑖0 ∥0)
1
]𝑏, [𝑣
(𝑖0 ∥1)
1
]𝑏).
Enlisting the help of server 2, for each 𝑗= 1, . . . ,ℎ, servers
0 and 1 then:
1) invoke FSWAP for each 𝑏= 0, 1 to produce
- ([𝑣
(𝑖𝑗)
𝑏], [𝑣
(¯𝑖𝑗)
𝑏]) ←FSWAP
 ([𝑣
(𝑖𝑗−1∥0)
𝑏
], [𝑣
(𝑖𝑗−1∥1)
𝑏
]), [𝐵
(𝑗)];
2) reconstruct 𝑣
(¯𝑖𝑗)B 𝑣
(¯𝑖𝑗)
0 +𝑣
(¯𝑖𝑗)
1
and reject if 𝑣
(¯𝑖𝑗)≠0;
3) for each 𝑏= 0, 1, parse
- [𝑣
(𝑖𝑗)
𝑏] as ([𝑠
(𝑖𝑗)
𝑏], ·, [flag
(𝑖𝑗)
𝑏]);
4) invoke FPRG for each 𝑏= 0, 1 to produce
- ([child
(𝑖𝑗∥0)
𝑏
], [child
(𝑖𝑗∥1)
𝑏
]) ←FPRG([𝑠
(𝑖𝑗)
𝑏]∥00);
5) for each 𝑏= 0, 1 and 𝐵= 0, 1, parse
- [child
(𝑖𝑗∥𝐵)
𝑏
] as ([𝑠
(𝑖𝑗∥𝐵)
𝑏
], ·, [𝑇
(𝑖𝑗∥𝐵)
𝑏
]);
6) parse cw
(𝑗+1) as (cw
(𝑗+1),𝑡
(𝑗+1)
1
,𝑡
(𝑗+1)
0
);
7) for each 𝑏= 0, 1 and 𝐵= 0, 1, compute
- [𝑠
(𝑖𝑗∥𝐵)
𝑏
] ←[𝑠
(𝑖𝑗∥𝐵)
𝑏
] +  cw
(𝑗+1) · (𝑏+ [flag
(𝑖𝑗)
𝑏]),
- [flag
(𝑗∥𝐵)
𝑏
] ←[𝑇
(𝑖𝑗∥𝐵)
𝑏
] + (𝑡
(𝑗+1)
𝐵
· [flag
(𝑖𝑗)
𝑏]); and,
8) finally, for each 𝑏= 0, 1 and 𝐵= 0, 1, set
-𝑣
(𝑖𝑗∥𝐵)
𝑏
←([𝑠
(𝑖𝑗∥𝐵)
𝑏
], ·, [flag
(𝑖𝑗∥𝐵)
𝑏
]).
They accept if they did not reject in Step 2 for any 𝑗.
We note that both functionalities FPRG and FSWAP consist
exclusively of (perfectly simulatable) Du-Atallah multiplica-
tions and non-interactive linear operations (and are, there-
fore, trivial to simulate); moreover, with the sole exceptions
of comparing CWs and reconstructing the 𝑣
(¯𝑖𝑗) in Step 2, all
remaining steps likewise consists exclusively of Du-Atallah
multiplications and linear operations. The reconstruction in
Step 2 yields no information unless 𝑣
(¯𝑖𝑗) ≠0, in which case
the servers learn that the 𝑗th node along the purported 1-
path is incorrect. It is easy to verify that if the key pair
8
1960
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on October 03,2025 at 15:45:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

is indeed well-formed with distinguished input 𝑖, then the
servers always accept; conversely, if the key pair is not a DPF
with distinguished input 𝑖, then the existence of some prefix
𝑖𝑗of 𝑖such that 𝑣
(¯𝑖𝑗) is not a 0-node follows contrapositively
from Corollary 1. In this case, the servers will reject in Step 2
when traversing from 𝑣
(𝑖𝑗−1) to 𝑣
(𝑖𝑗). We have thus proved the
following theorem.
Theorem 2. The (2 + 1)-party auditing protocol is complete
and perfectly sound. Moreover, the view of any semi-honest
party in an accepting run of the (2+1)-party auditing protocol
is perfectly simulatable.
B. SNIP-based auditing
The preceding section described a (2 + 1)-party computa-
tion using which servers 0 and 1 can (with assistance from
a semi-honest server 2) efficiently check the well-formedness
of their respective Boyle-Gilboa-Ishai DPF keys. We now
explain the conversion of this (2+1)-party computation into a
zero-knowledge argument based on MPC-in-the-head.
The high-level idea is for the prover, who holds dpf0 and
dpf1 and the distinguished input 𝑖, to simulate (2 + 1)-party
audit and then commit to the (unidirectional) communication
channels over which the servers exchange messages in the
simulation. From here, the verifiers challenge the prover to
open subsets of these commitments for inspection.
1) MPC-in-the-head with multiple verifiers: A critical dif-
ference between our arguments and other zero-knowledge
arguments constructed in the MPC-in-the-head paradigm
stems from (i) our use of a (2 + 1)-party computation secure
against a single passive corruption, combined with the fact
that (ii) the private inputs to servers 0 and 1 in the underlying
MPC include the private inputs to servers 0 and 1 in Sabre
(i.e., dpf0 and dpf1, respectively). Consequently, server 𝑏can
scrutinize the view of either server 𝑏or server 2 from a given
simulation, but never both—and it can never scrutinize the
view of server (1−𝑏). This fact all but rules out sound “single-
verifier” arguments, as a cheating prover could always, e.g.,
confine inconsistencies to transcripts that the verifier is not
allowed to scrutinize.
We circumvent this issue by leveraging two or more
verifiers that each examine a different subset of transcripts.
The argument is accepted if and only if all verifiers (i) receive
identical channel commitments from the prover, and (ii) find
no inconsistencies in the views they scrutinize. Definition-
ally, such “multi-verifier” MPC-in-the-head arguments are
equivalent to secret-shared non-interative proofs (SNIPs) with
a (modestly) generalized zero-knowledge property: whereas
Corrigan-Gibbs and Boneh’s SNIP definition [10; §4.1] insists
that the view of any proper subset of verifiers be simulatable,
“multi-verifier MPC-in-the-head” SNIPs inherit their simu-
latability requirements from the access structures governing
privacy in the underlying MPC. In the case of Sabre’s (2+1)-
party auditing, the requirement is that the view of any given
verifier be simulatable. When there are just two verifiers,
this requirement coincides with the one originally proposed
by Corrigan-Gibbs and Boneh.
2) 3-verifier SNIP auditing: The 3-verifier SNIP audit proto-
col employs (2+1)-party auditing while eliminating the need
for (almost all) interaction among the servers. Specifically,
upon sampling its DPF keys, the prover simulates a single
run of the (2 + 1)-party audit protocol from Section V-A4,
committing to the ordered sequence of messages on each
(unidirectional) simulated communication link among the
three parties. Let 𝑀𝑎→𝑏denote the ordered sequence of
messages sent from party 𝑎to party 𝑏in the simulation,
and let 𝐻𝑎→𝑏B Hash(𝑀𝑎→𝑏) for some cryptographic hash
function Hash: {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}𝜇(our implementation uses
SHA256 truncated to 𝜇= 128 bits).
Notice that (dpf0, 𝑀1→0, 𝑀2→0) suffices to reconstruct the
view of server 0, while (dpf1, 𝑀0→1, 𝑀2→1) suffices to re-
construct the view of server 1 and (𝑀2→0, 𝑀2→1) consti-
tutes the entire view of server 2. The prover constructs
a 4-ary Merkle-tree (with height 1) having root H
B
Hash(cw
(0)∥· · · ∥cw
(ℎ)∥𝐻0→1∥𝐻1→0∥𝐻2→0∥𝐻2→1), and then it
sends
1) Π
(0) B (𝑀1→0, 𝑀2→0, 𝐻2→1) to server 0,
2) Π
(1) B (𝑀0→1, 𝑀2→1, 𝐻2→0) to server 1, and
3) Π
(2) B (𝐻0→1, 𝐻1→0, 𝑀2→0, 𝑀2→1) to server 2.
To
verify
its
portion
of
the
SNIP,
server
0
uses
(dpf0, 𝑀1→0, 𝑀2→0)
to
recreate
𝑀0→1;
it
rejects
if
(𝑀0→1, 𝑀1→0, 𝑀2→0, 𝐻2→1) is not consistent with the Merkle
root H. Servers 1 and 2 verify their portions analogously.
The 3-verifier SNIP is accepting if and only if (i) each of
the three servers received the same Merkle root H, and
(ii) none of the servers rejects its portion of the SNIP. Since
the three verifiers collectively scrutinize all views from the
simulation, inconsistencies in the simulation cannot escape
notice by at least one verifier (discounting the negligible
probability of hash collisions when constructing the Merkle
tree). In particular, we have just argued that—except with
probability negligible in the hash-length 𝜇—a prover can
produce an accepting 3-verifier SNIP for (dpf0, dpf1) and [𝑖]
only if these same values would have passed (2 + 1)-party
auditing—which has perfect soundness. Moreover, because
each verifier merely inspects one view from the (2+1)-party
audit protocol, the view of any given verifier remains
trivially simulatable; we have thus proved the following
theorem.
Theorem 3. The 3-verifier SNIP auditing protocol with hash
function Hash: {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}𝜇is perfectly simulatable and
has perfect completeness and soundness overwhelming in 𝜇.
A more detailed proof sketch for Theorem 3 is included as
Appendix E.
3) 2-verifier SNIP auditing: The 2-verifier SNIP audit pro-
tocol employs cut-and-choose to eliminate the need for a
third verifier while maintaining soundness error negligible
in 𝜇. Specifically, upon sampling its DPF keys, the prover
now runs 𝜇parallel simulations of the (2 + 1)-party audit
protocol, committing to each unidirectional communication
link among the three parties in each simulation. For each
9
1961
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on October 03,2025 at 15:45:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

𝑖
=
1, . . . , 𝜇, let 𝑀𝑎→𝑏
𝑖
denote the ordered sequence of
messages sent from party 𝑎to party 𝑏in the 𝑖th parallel
simulation and let 𝐻𝑎→𝑏
𝑖
B Hash(𝑀𝑎→𝑏
𝑖
).
As in the 3-verifier SNIPs, the prover constructs a Merkle
tree committing to all unidirectional channel commitments.
In particular, for each 𝑖= 1, . . . , 𝜇, it computes the digest
H𝑖
B
Hash(cw
(0)∥· · · ∥cw
(ℎ)∥𝐻0→1
𝑖
∥𝐻1→0
𝑖
∥𝐻2→0
𝑖
∥𝐻2→1
𝑖
), and
then it constructs the Merkle root as Hash(H1∥· · · ∥H𝜇).
Regarding Hash as a random oracle, each of the 𝜇bits
of the Merkle root constitutes a distinct “challenge” (à la
Fiat-Shamir [15]): when the bit is 0, each verifier will inspect
“its own” view; when the bit is 1, both verifies will inspect
server 2’s view. Such a tree is depicted in Figure 3.
0 0 1 0
· · ·
1 0 1 1
𝑐1
𝑐2
𝑐3
𝑐4
𝑐𝜇-3 𝑐𝜇-2 𝑐𝜇-1
𝑐𝜇
· · ·
· · ·
· · ·
H1
𝐻1→0
1
𝐻0→1
1
𝐻2→0
1
𝐻2→1
1
𝑀1→0
1
𝑀0→1
1
𝑀2→0
1
𝑀2→1
1
H𝜇
𝐻1→0
𝜇
𝐻0→1
𝜇
𝐻2→0
𝜇
𝐻2→1
𝜇
𝑀1→0
𝜇
𝑀0→1
𝜇
𝑀2→0
𝜇
𝑀2→1
𝜇
Fig. 3: Merkle-tree commitment for 2-verifier SNIPs.
Let 𝑐𝑖denote the 𝑖th bit of the Merkle root. For each 𝑖=
1, . . . , 𝜇, the prover discloses the tuple
Π
(0)
𝑖
B
(
(𝑀1→0
𝑖
, 𝑀2→0
𝑖
, 𝐻2→1
𝑖
)
if 𝑐𝑖= 0, and
(𝑀2→0
𝑖
, 𝑀2→1
𝑖
)
otherwise,
to server 0, and symmetrically for server 1.
To verify its portion of the SNIP, server 𝑏uses dpf𝑏and
the Π
(𝑏)
𝑖
to reconstruct the missing leaf hashes, and then it
checks their consistency with the Merkle root. The 2-verifier
SNIP is accepting if and only if (i) both servers received
the same Merkle root H, (ii) the tuple disclosed in each Π
(𝑏)
𝑖
is consistent with the challenge bit 𝑐𝑖from this root, and
(iii) neither server rejects its portion of the SNIP.
As per Theorem 3, even a single inconsistency-free simu-
lation suffices to establish well-formedness of the DPF with
probability overwhelming in 𝜇; moreover, if a given simula-
tion does have an inconsistency, then this inconsistency must
be evident in the view of either server 2 or at least one of
servers 0 or 1 and will, therefore, be detected with probability
at least
1
2. Furthermore, as with 3-verifier SNIP auditing,
the view of any given verifier remains trivially simulatable.
Hence, we obtain the following theorem.
Theorem 4. The 2-verifier SNIP auditing protocol with hash
function Hash: {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}𝜇is perfectly simulatable and
has perfect completeness and soundness overwhelming in 𝜇.
A more detailed proof sketch for Theorem 4 is included as
Appendix F.
VI. Security Guarantees
We define security for Sabre in the ideal-world/real-world
simulation paradigm. In the ideal world, Sabre users hand
their read and write requests directly to some ideal func-
tionality, who faithfully executes the requested actions while
leaking no superfluous information to external observers.
In the real world, one of the 2- or 3-server Sabre-BB or
Sabre-M instantiations replaces the ideal functionality. We
then consider an attacker A who controls an arbitrary
number of readers and writers in addition to (at most) one
server.
Informally, we wish to show that A cannot exploit its
privileged position as a Sabre server to compromise sender
anonymity. We do this by exhibiting an efficient simulator
that interacts with the ideal functionality to sample “simu-
lated” views from a distribution close to the one describing
A’s view in the real world. We then ask whether A can adap-
tively conjure up sequences of events allowing it to distin-
guish between real and simulated views; if not, we conclude
that the real Sabre protocols leak essentially nothing beyond
what is leaked by their ideal-world counterparts.
Due to space constraints, we defer a detailed security
definition and analysis to Appendix G.
VII. Implementation and Evaluation
To assess the practicality of Sabre, we wrote a proof-of-
concept reference implementation in C++. Our implemen-
tation uses Boost.Asio v1.18.1 for asynchronous communi-
cation, OpenSSL 1.1.1i for hashing and TLS support, and
dpf++ [18] for (2, 2)-DPFs; we wrote all other non-STL
functionality by hand.6
Experimental setup: We ran a series of experiments on
Amazon EC2, with the servers running in geographically
distant locations to mimic realistic Internet latency. The
servers are all m5.4xlarge instances equipped with 64 GiB
of RAM and 16 vCPUs, running the standard Ubuntu 18.04
AMI. For each of the experiments reported in this section, we
configured LowMC to use 128-bit blocks (and 128-bit keys)
with r = 19 rounds consisting of s = 32 S-boxes a piece.
Appendix C presents experimental results to justify these
parameter choices. (As a spoiler, this setting turns out to be
pessimal with respect to (2+1)-party auditing and SNIPs, but
optimal for the full-domain evaluation, which dominates the
execution time.) We ran all experiments for 100 trials and
report in our plots the sample mean over those 100 runs.
(The plots also show error bars, but in most cases they are
too small to see.)
In order to sustain high throughput, Sabre uses a custom
bitsliced implementation of LowMC that operates on either
128 or 256 ciphertexts in parallel using SIMD operations;
thus, several of our plots report the wall-clock time to process
batches of size 128 where the reader might naturally expect
to find the cost for “singleton” batches.
A. Communication Cost
We first present an (analytically determined) accounting of
communication costs for all three variants of Sabre auditing.
6Our source code is available under the GNU General Public License
(version 3) via https://pr.iva.cy/sabre.
10
1962
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on October 03,2025 at 15:45:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

TABLE I: Communication cost of auditing (in bytes) for a Sabre instance with 𝑛= 2ℎbuckets/mailboxes. In the table,
ℎ= lg𝑛denotes the height of the DPF tree, while r and s respectively denote the number of rounds and S-boxes in
LowMC with 128-bit blocks. The 2-verifier SNIP employs cut-and-choose with soundness error ≈2−128.
Audit type
client→server𝒃
client→server 2
server𝒃↔server (1 −𝒃)
server𝒃→server 2
server 2→server𝒃
(2+1)-party
—
—
16+ (16 1
8 + 3
2 sr)(ℎ−1)
16+ (16 1
8 + 3
2 sr)(ℎ−1)
16+ (32 1
8 + 3
2 sr)(ℎ−1)
3-verifier SNIP
112+ ⌈(64.25+3sr)(ℎ−1)⌉
64
16
16
16
2-verifier SNIP
37 888+ (4 112+192sr)(ℎ−1)
—
16
—
—
The costs are summarized in Table I, with the derivations
of these numbers included as Appendix H. (Note that these
costs account for auditing only; they do not include the DPF
itself.) Observe that the client-to-server communication cost
in both 2- and 3-verifier SNIP-based auditing scales with the
product rs of LowMC parameters. (To a first approximation,
r ≈lg s so that proof-size scaling is more or less softly linear
in r.) Also notice that 3-verifier SNIPs reduce communication
about (𝜆/2)-fold relative to 2-verifier SNIPs; however, this
reduction comes at the cost of an additional server and a
correspondingly stronger non-collusion assumption.
B. Auditing
Our first set of experiments measure the cost of Sabre
auditing and compare it with that of Riposte and Express
auditing. Figure 4 shows the relative cost of (2 + 1)-party,
3-verifier SNIP, and 2-verifier SNIP auditing in Sabre.
210
216
222
228
234
240
101
102
103
Number of buckets/mailboxes (𝑛)
Wall-clock time (ms)
2-verifier SNIP
3-verifier SNIP
(2+1)-PC
Fig. 4: Time to audit a batch of 128 requests in Sabre.
Owing to its reliance on cut-and-choose with 𝜆= 128
parallel instances, the 2-verifier SNIP auditing is by far
the slowest of the pack, taking two orders of magnitude
longer than both (2 + 1)-party and 3-verifier SNIP auditing.
Nevertheless, the amortized cost per audit still barely exceeds
10 ms for Sabre instances even with 𝑛= 220 registered
mailboxes—indeed, even with up to 𝑛= 240 mailboxes it
never exceeds 23 ms. Although 2-verifier SNIP auditing is
dramatically less performant than the alternatives, it offers
superior security guarantees and the most apt comparison
with Express; thus, we restrict our remaining experimental
results to this variant. It is worth noting, however, that either
3-server variant would provide (significantly) better auditing
performance wherever an additional party (and the resulting
stronger trust assumption) is palatable. The 3-server variants
also provide a more direct comparison with Riposte.
Figures 5a and 5b compare the auditing costs of Sabre with
2-verifier SNIP auditing versus those of Riposte and Express.
These plots clearly illustrate the benefits of Sabre’s logarith-
mic auditing relative to Riposte’s and Express’ linear auditing.
While the latter perform better for very small DPFs, the
former becomes significantly faster as DPFs begin to exceed
around a hundred thousand mailboxes (or buckets).
Figure 5c shows the cost of verifying a batch of 128
mailbox addresses in Sabre-M. As expected, the running time
of the mailbox address check is constant (i.e., independent of
the number mailboxes).
C. Resistance to denial-of-service attack
The next set of experiments characterizes Sabre’s re-
sistance to resource-exhaustion DoS attacks by comparing
how long it takes a simulated attacker to produce plausible-
looking, yet malformed write requests with how long it
takes Sabre auditing to reject them. The attacker in these
experiments produces its malformed requests by sampling a
sufficient quantity of pseudorandom bits from /dev/urandom.
We consider two kinds of auditing failures, namely (i) when
the address check fails and (ii) when the address check passes
but the DPF audit subsequently fails. (For the latter, we also
consider at which tree depth the auditing aborts.)
Figure 6a plots our findings for the first kind of failure,
comparing the time required to sample a single malformed
request against the time required to check a batch of 128
addresses using the PRF-based address check. For Sabre
instances with as few as 𝑛= 210 mailboxes, sampling a mal-
formed request takes nearly 1.75× as long as address check-
ing; by 220 mailboxes the difference approaches 4.6×.
Figure 6b plots our findings for the second kind of failure,
comparing the time required to construct a request that
verifies up to but not including the 𝑑th level of the DPF
(after which the attack samples the rest of the request from
/dev/urandom) against the time required for the auditors to
reject the request. Owing to SNIP verification’s probabilistic
nature, the auditors can reject a malformed DPF upon in-
specting only a fraction of the bits that the attacker must
sample. As a result, sampling a malformed request takes
about 1.5× as long as rejecting it via auditing, for all 𝑑.
In contrast to Riposte and Express auditing—where audi-
tors run asymptotically slower than writers—Sabre auditors
consistently reject malformed requests faster than the sim-
ulated attackers can produce them. We thus conclude that
Sabre is inherently resistant to DoS attacks in the following
sense: An attacker seeking to overwhelm Sabre servers must
expend strictly more resources than the servers.
11
1963
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on October 03,2025 at 15:45:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

210
212
214
216
218
220
20
40
60
80
100
120
Number of buckets/mailboxes (𝑛)
Wall-clock time (ms)
Sabre-M
Riposte
Express
(a) Client-side auditing time
210
212
214
216
218
220
20
40
60
80
100
120
Number of buckets/mailboxes (𝑛)
Wall-clock time (ms)
Sabre-M
Riposte
Express
(b) Server-side auditing time
210
212
214
216
218
220
101
102
103
104
Number of mailboxes (𝑛)
Wall-clock time (ms)
PRF-based mailbox address check
(c) Mailbox checking time
Fig. 5: Sabre 2-verifier SNIP auditing versus Riposte and Express auditing. Observe that the 𝑦-axis in 5a and 5b are
linear, while 𝑦-axis in 5c is log-scaled. Note that 5c reports mailbox-checking times for a batch of 128 requests.
210
212
214
216
218
220
2
4
6
8
10
12
Number of buckets/mailboxes (𝑛)
Wall-clock time (ms)
Sample /dev/urandom
PRF-based address check
(a) PRF-based address check versus malformed request sampling time
8
12
16
20
5
10
15
20
Depth of first inconsistency (𝑑)
Wall-clock time (ms)
Create request
Verify consistent levels (up to 𝑑)
(b) DPF auditing versus malformed request sampling time (𝑛= 220)
Fig. 6: Sabre 2-verifier SNIP auditing versus malformed request sampling. 6a compares the cost of checking a batch of
128 mailbox addresses with that of sampling a (single) malformed request; 6b compares the cost of verifying a proof
up to level 𝑑with that of sampling a malformed proof that verifies up to level 𝑑.
D. Head-to-head with Riposte and Express
The next set of experiments provide a head-to-head com-
parison between Sabre with 2-verifier SNIPs and both Riposte
and Express, the respective state-of-the-art systems in the
bulletin-board and mailbox models. We plot the results in
Figures 7 and 8. (Note that we measured the reference
implementations of Riposte7 and Express8 on the same
servers we used to run Sabre. The 𝑥-axes on all plots stop
at 𝑛= 218 due to limitations of the Riposte and Express
implementations.)
Figure 7a compares the throughput of Sabre-M against that
of Express for messages of size 1 KiB and 32 KiB. In both
cases, Sabre-M comfortably outperforms Express; indeed,
Sabre-M with 32 KiB messages even outperforms Express
with 1 KiB messages. In a similar vein to Figure 8a, we expect
the Sabre’s performance advantage to grow (rapidly) with the
introduction of malformed requests.
Figure 7b compares the throughput of Sabre-BB against
that of Riposte. For a meaningful comparison, we provide
separate plots for Sabre-BB with each of the three audit
protocol instantiations. Again, the results confirm our ex-
pectations: Throughput for the (2 + 1)-party and 3-verifier
SNIP variants consistently exceeds 20× that of Riposte, while
the overhead of cut-and-choose in the 2-verifier SNIP variant
eliminates much of this gain when the number of buckets is
small. As the number of buckets grows large, the costs of
7https://bitbucket.org/henrycg/riposte/
8https://github.com/SabaEskandarian/Express
all three Sabre instances converges to that of the full-domain
evaluation of the DPF and subsequent writing.
Figure 10 in Appendix D compares the performance of the
“stepping-stones” to Sabre-M. Comparing those plots with
the plot for Express (from Figure 7a) with 1 KiB messages
reveals comparable throughput when all DPFs pass auditing.
This is unsurprising, as the bottleneck in both protocols
is the DPF evaluation and subsequent writing. We stress
that our use of bitsliced LowMC is crucial here: Express
benefits from the fast AES-NI instruction set on modern
x86-64 CPUs; without bitslicing, the throughput of LowMC
could not compete. The algorithmic improvements of Sabre
become apparent as we progress through the “stepping-
stones” toward Sabre-M, whose smaller DPFs and ability
to use full-domain evaluation greatly reduces the cost of
DPF evaluation; moreover, the use of full-domain evaluation
provides superior pipe-lining and cache utilization, resulting
in notable speedups for the subsequent writing. Our next
experiments reveal further algorithmic improvements that
arise only when some DPFs fail auditing.
1) Head-to-head under DoS attacks: The final set of ex-
periments compares the throughput of Sabre-M with that
of Express in the presence of a resource-exhaustion DoS
attack. Recall that write requests in the mailbox model can be
malformed in two distinct ways; namely, (i) the mailbox ad-
dress is incorrect or (ii) the DPF is not well-formed. Figure 8
presents five plots that each show the effect of varying the
proportion of incoming requests that are well-formed versus
12
1964
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on October 03,2025 at 15:45:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

212
214
216
218
10−1
100
101
102
103
Number of mailboxes (𝑛)
Queries/second
Express (1 KiB)
Express (32 KiB)
Sabre-M (1 KiB)
Sabre-M (32 KiB)
(a) Sabre-M vs. Express (1 KiB & 32 KiB messages)
212
214
216
218
20
24
28
212
Number of buckets (𝑛)
Queries/second
Riposte
2-party SNIP
3-party SNIP
(2 + 1)-PC
(b) Sabre-BB vs. Riposte (256 byte messages)
Fig. 7: Comparison among Sabre variants, Riposte, and Express when all requests are valid.
20
40
60
80
100
22242628
210
212
214
216
% bad requests
Queries/second
DPF : address ⇔4 : 0
20
40
60
80
100
22242628
210
212
214
216
% bad requests
DPF : address ⇔3 : 1
20
40
60
80
100
22242628
210
212
214
216
% bad requests
DPF : address ⇔2 : 2
20
40
60
80
100
22242628
210
212
214
216
% bad requests
DPF : address ⇔1 : 3
20
40
60
80
100
22242628
210
212
214
216
% bad requests
DPF : address ⇔0 : 4
Express
Sabre-M
Fig. 8: Varying the percentage of malformed queries for DPFs of size 216 and message size of 10 KiB. Notice the
log-scaling on the 𝑦-axis.
malformed. In the leftmost plot, all bad requests have valid
addresses but malformed DPFs; in the next plot, one in four
have invalid addresses; and so on until the rightmost plot
where all bad requests have invalid addresses. The 𝑦-axis
tracks how many incoming queries (whether “good” or “bad”)
each protocol was able to process per second.
Notice that, in all cases, throughput actually increases with
the proportion of malformed DPFs, since the servers can stop
processing immediately if auditing fails. (The effect is more
pronounced for Sabre because of its faster auditing.) When
the proportion of requests with invalid addresses increases,
the throughput for Express plummets, while the throughput
for Sabre-M skyrockets. This results from the extremely low
cost of the PRF-based address check that Sabre-M employs.
These findings confirm that Sabre-M performs significantly
better than Express in the presence of a DoS attack.
VIII. Related Work
Before concluding, we summarize some relevant works on
anonymous messaging. We focus on systems that provide
privacy guarantees comparable to those of Sabre, as opposed
to schemes like Vuvuzela [26], Stadium [25], or Karaoke [23],
which tackle similar problems while providing only differen-
tial privacy-like anonymity guarantees.
Pung: Angel and Setty present Pung [3], a single-server
messaging protocol built from computationally private in-
formation retrieval (CPIR). Pung is notable for its low
writing costs (though its reliance on CPIR renders reading
expensive) and absence of multiple servers, and resulting
non-collusion assumptions.
Atom: Kwon, Corrigan-Gibbs, Devadas, and Ford present
Atom [21], an anonymous microblogging service in the
sender-anonymous bulletin-board model. Atom is notable
for its use of sharding and public-key techniques to support
anonymous broadcasting of “short” (Tweet-sized) messages
in the presence of actively malicious servers.
XRD: Kwon, Lu, and Devadas present XRD [22], a scalable
end-to-end messaging system. XRD is notable for its use
of parallel mixes and so-called aggregate hybrid shuffles to
achieve high throughput relative to Pung and Atom.
Talek: Cheng, Scott, Masserova, Zhang, Goyal, Anderson,
Krishnamurthy, and Parno present Talek [8], a group mes-
saging system in the anonymous mailbox model. Talek is
notable for its use of information-theoretic PIR techniques
to achieve access sequence indistinguishability under weak
non-collusion assumptions.
IX. Conclusion
We presented Sabre, a family of SAM protocols with
instances operating in both the sender-anonymous mailbox
model (Sabre-M) and the sender-anonymous bulletin-board
model (Sabre-BB). Sabre improves on the state-of-the-art sys-
tems in both models via several innovations that improve not
only its concrete performance and scalability under “ideal”
circumstances but also its resilience to resource exhaustion-
style DoS attacks in the sender-anonymous mailbox model.
Our implementation and experimental analysis indicate that
Sabre can feasibly scale to anonymity sets in the tens of
millions and beyond.
13
1965
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on October 03,2025 at 15:45:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

References
[1] Martin R. Albrecht, Christian Rechberger, Thomas Schneider, Tyge
Tiessen, and Michael Zohner.
Ciphers for MPC and FHE.
In
Advances in Cryptology: Proceedings of EUROCRYPT 2015 (Part I),
volume 9056 of LNCS, pages 430–454, Sofia, Bulgaria (Apr. 2015).
[2] Nikolaos Alexopoulos, Aggelos Kiayias, Riivo Talviste, and Thomas
Zacharias. MCMix: Anonymous messaging via secure multiparty
computation. In Proceedings of USENIX Security 2017, pages 1217–
1234, Vancouver, BC, Canada (August 2017).
[3] Sebastian Angel and Srinath T. V. Setty. Unobservable communica-
tion over fully untrusted infrastructure. In Proceedings of OSDI 2016,
pages 551–569, Savannah, GA, USA (Nov. 2016).
[4] Donald Beaver. Efficient multiparty protocols using circuit random-
ization. In Advances in Cryptology: Proceedings of CRYPTO 1991,
volume 576 of LNCS, pages 420–432, Santa Barbara, CA, USA (Aug.
1991).
[5] Elette Boyle, Niv Gilboa, and Yuval Ishai. Function secret sharing.
In Advances in Cryptology: Proceedings of EUROCRYPT 2015 (Part II),
volume 9057 of LNCS, pages 337–367, Sofia, Bulgaria (Apr. 2015).
[6] Elette Boyle, Niv Gilboa, and Yuval Ishai. Function secret sharing:
Improvements and extensions. In Proceedings of CCS 2016, pages
1292–1303, Vienna, Austria (Oct. 2016).
[7] Melissa Chase, David Derler, Steven Goldfeder, Claudio Orlandi,
Sebastian Ramacher, Christian Rechberger, Daniel Slamanig, and
Greg Zaverucha. Post-quantum zero-knowledge and signatures from
symmetric-key primitives. In Proceedings of CCS 2017, pages 1825–
1842, Dallas, TX, USA (Oct. 2017).
[8] Raymond Cheng, William Scott, Elisaweta Masserova, Irene Zhang,
Vipul Goyal, Thomas E. Anderson, Arvind Krishnamurthy, and
Bryan Parno. Talek: Private group messaging with hidden access
patterns. In Proceedings of ACSAC 2020, pages 84–99, Austin, TX,
USA (Dec. 2020).
[9] Benny Chor, Eyal Kushilevitz, Oded Goldreich, and Madhu Sudan.
Private information retrieval. Journal of the ACM (JACM), 45(6):965–
981, Nov. 1998.
[10] Henry Corrigan-Gibbs and Dan Boneh. Prio: Private, robust, and
scalable computation of aggregate statistics. In Proceedings of USENIX
Security 2017, pages 259–282, Boston, MA, USA (Mar. 2017).
[11] Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Dan Boneh, and David Mazières. Riposte:
An anonymous messaging system handling millions of users. In
Proceedings of IEEE S&P 2015, pages 321–338, San Jose, CA, USA
(May 2015).
[12] Roger Dingledine, Nick Mathewson, and Paul F. Syverson. Tor:
The second-generation onion router.
In Proceedings of USENIX
Security 2004, San Diego, CA, USA (Aug. 2004).
[13] Wenliang Du and Mikhail J. Atallah. Protocols for secure remote
database access with approximate matching. In E-Commerce Security
and Privacy (Part II), volume 2 of Advances in Information Security,
pages 87–111, Feb. 2001.
[14] Saba Eskandarian, Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Matei Zaharia, and
Dan Boneh.
Express: Lowering the cost of metadata-hiding
communication with cryptographic privacy. In Proceedings of USENIX
Security 2021, Vancouver, BC, Canada (Aug. 2021).
[15] Amos Fiat and Adi Shamir.
How to prove yourself: Practical
solutions to identification and signature problems. In Advances in
Cryptology: Proceedings of CRYPTO 1986, volume 263 of LNCS, pages
186–194, Santa Barbara, CA, USA (Aug. 1986).
[16] Irene Giacomelli, Jesper Madsen, and Claudio Orlandi.
ZKBoo:
Faster zero-knowledge for boolean circuits. In Proceedings of USENIX
Security 2016, pages 1069–1083, Austin, TX, USA (Aug. 2016).
[17] Niv Gilboa and Yuval Ishai. Distributed point functions and their
applications.
In Advances in Cryptology: Proceedings of EURO-
CRYPT 2014, volume 8441 of LNCS, pages 640–658, Copenhagen,
Denmark (May 2014).
[18] Ryan Henry and Adithya Vadapalli. dpf++; version 0.0.1 [computer
software].
Available from: https://www.github.com/rh3nry/
dpfplusplus, July 2019.
[19] Yuval Ishai, Eyal Kushilevitz, Rafail Ostrovsky, and Amit Sahai. Zero-
knowledge from secure multiparty computation. In Proceedings of
STOC 2007, pages 21–30, San Diego, CA, USA (June 2007).
[20] Jonathan Katz, Vladimir Kolesnikov, and Xiao Wang. Improved
non-interactive zero knowledge with applications to post-quantum
signatures. In Proceedings of CCS 2018, pages 525–537, Toronto, ON,
Canada (Oct. 2018).
[21] Albert Kwon, Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Srinivas Devadas, and Bryan
Ford. Atom: Horizontally scaling strong anonymity. In Proceedings of
SOSP 2017, pages 406–422, Shanghai, China (Oct. 2017).
[22] Albert Kwon, David Lu, and Srinivas Devadas.
XRD: Scalable
messaging system with cryptographic privacy. In Proceedings of
NSDI 2020, pages 759–776, Santa Clara, CA, USA (Feb. 2020).
[23] David Lazar, Yossi Gilad, and Nickolai Zeldovich.
Karaoke:
Distributed private messaging immune to passive traffic analysis.
In Proceedings of OSDI 2018, pages 711–725, Carlsbad, CA, USA (Oct.
2018).
[24] S. M. Matyas, C. H. Meyer, and J. Oseas. Generating strong one-way
functions with cryptographic algorithm. IBM Technical Disclosure
Bulletin, 27(10A):5658–565, Mar. 1985.
[25] Nirvan Tyagi, Yossi Gilad, Derek Leung, Matei Zaharia, and Nickolai
Zeldovich.
Stadium: A distributed metadata-private messaging
system. In Proceedings of SOSP 2017, pages 423–440, Shanghai, China
(Oct. 2017).
[26] Jelle van den Hooff, David Lazar, Matei Zaharia, and Nickolai
Zeldovich. Vuvuzela: Scalable private messaging resistant to traffic
analysis. In Proceedings of SOSP 2015, Monterey, CA, USA (Oct. 2015).
Appendix
A. Proof of Observation 1 (from Section II-A)
Observation 1 (Restatement). If a tree is rooted at a 0-node,
then all of its leaves are of type 0; if it is rooted at a 1-node,
then exactly one of its leaves is of type 1 and all others are of
type 0.
Proof. The proof that all leaves of a tree rooted at a 0-node
are of type 0 is trivial; the proof that a tree rooted at a 1-node
has exactly one type-1 leaf with all others being of type 0 is
by induction on the height ℎof the tree. The base case ℎ= 0
follows immediately from the definition of a 1-node. For the
inductive step, suppose that every height-ℎtree with a type-1
root has exactly one type-1 leaf with all other leaves being of
type 0. Given a height-(ℎ+ 1) tree with a type-1 root, there
are two possibilities: either the leftmost subtree is rooted at
a 1-node and the rightmost subtree is rooted at a 0-node, or
vice versa. In both cases, one subtree has only type-0 leaves,
while, by the inductive hypothesis, the other subtree has a
single type-1 leaf with all others being of type 0.
□
B. Du-Atallah (2+1)-party multiplication
Du-Atallah multiplication [13] is a (2 + 1)-party variant
of the well-known Beaver-triplet multiplication [4]. Suppose
servers 0 and 1 hold (2,2)-additive sharings [𝑥] and [𝑦]; their
goal is to compute a sharing [𝑥𝑦] of the product 𝑥·𝑦.
To this end, a semi-trusted third party samples the 5-
tuple (𝑟0,𝑟1,𝑠0,𝑠1,𝑡) uniformly and sends (𝑟0,𝑠0,𝑟0𝑠1 + 𝑡) and
(𝑟1,𝑠1,𝑟1𝑠0 −𝑡) to servers 0 and 1. Server 0 uses 𝑟0,𝑠0 to
blind its shares, sending the pair ([𝑥]0 + 𝑟0, [𝑦]0 + 𝑠0) to
server 1; meanwhile, server 1 sends ([𝑥]1 + 𝑟1, [𝑦]1 + 𝑠1)
to server 0. Finally, server 0 outputs [𝑥𝑦]0 B [𝑥]0
 [𝑦]0 +
([𝑥]1 + 𝑟1) −𝑠0([𝑥]1 + 𝑟1) + (𝑟0𝑠1 + 𝑡) and server 1 outputs
[𝑥𝑦]1 B [𝑥]1
 [𝑦]1 + ([𝑥]0 +𝑟0) −𝑠1([𝑥]0 +𝑟0) + (𝑟1𝑠0 −𝑡). It is
easy to check that [𝑥𝑦]0 + [𝑥𝑦]1 = 𝑥· 𝑦, as desired.
14
1966
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on October 03,2025 at 15:45:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

2
10
17
22 25
32
0
10
20
30
Number of s-boxes
Wall-clock time (ms)
(a) 2-verifier SNIP auditing
2
10
17
22 25
32
0
40
80
120
160
Number of s-boxes
Wall-clock time (ms)
𝑛= 212
𝑛= 214
𝑛= 216
𝑛= 218
(b) Full-domain evaluation
2
10
17
22 25
32
0.5
1.0
1.5
Number of s-boxes
Proof size (MiB)
(c) Proof size
Fig. 9: 2-verifier SNIP auditing time, full-domain evaluation time, and proof size versus number of LowMC s-boxes.
212
214
216
218
10−1
100
101
102
103
Number of mailboxes (𝑛)
Queries/second
Sabre-M0 (1 KiB)
Sabre-M1 (1 KiB)
Sabre-M2 (1 KiB)
Sabre-M
(1 KiB)
Fig. 10: Throughtput of Sabre-M variants (1 KiB messages)
C. LowMC parameter selection
LowMC contains several tuning knobs allowing tradeoffs
among the total number of multiplications (i.e., s-boxes per
round), multiplicative depth (number of rounds), and wall-
clock running time. Roughly speaking, optimizing for total
number of multiplications minimizes overall communication
cost (for MPC-based auditing) and proof size (for SNIP-
based auditing), whereas optimizing for multiplicative depth
minimizes round complexity (for MPC-based auditing) or
proof verification time (for SNIP-based auditing). For our
Sabre implementation, we chose to optimize for multiplica-
tive depth by maximizing the number of s-boxes per round.
Figure 9 presents empirical evidence to justify this choice;
specifically, Figures 9a-9c respectively plot the wall-clock
time for 2-verifier SNIP auditing, the wall-clock running time
for full-domain DPF evaluation, and the expected size of 2-
verifier SNIPs for various settings of the “s-boxes per round”
tuning knob and numbers of buckets/mailboxes. The graphs
show that optimizing for multiplicative depth is essentially
pessimal for auditing but optimal for full-domain evaluation,
which is the bottleneck operation in all Sabre variants.
D. Stepping stones to Sabre-M
This appendix describes the “stepping stones” that led to
the development Sabre-M.
1) Sabre-M0: Express with improved auditing: Consider a
Sabre-M0 instance with security parameter 𝜆∈N (say,
𝜆= 128). The design of Sabre-M0 tightly parallels that
of Express, save for the new audit protocol. In a registra-
tion phase, the recipient contacts the servers to create a
mailbox and receives a uniform random, 𝜆-bit address in
exchange. Suppose there are 𝑛registered mailboxes with
addresses addr1, . . . , addr𝑛. To deposit a message 𝑀∈F2𝐿
into the mailbox addressed by addr𝑖, the sender samples
(dpf0, dpf1) ←Gen(1𝜆, F2𝜆, F2𝐿; addr𝑖, 𝑀) and then it sends
dpf𝑏to server 𝑏for 𝑏= 0, 1.
Upon receiving dpf𝑏, server 𝑏constructs the vector
𝑀𝑏
∈
(F2𝐿)1×𝑛
in which the
𝑗th component equals
Eval(dpf𝑏, addr𝑗); server 𝑏adds 𝑀𝑏to its mailbox database
to effectuate the write. We stress that (as in Express—owing
to the sparsity of the set of mailbox addresses within {0, 1}𝜆)
Boyle et al.’s full-domain evaluation procedure does not apply
when computing 𝑀𝑏. Instead, each column requires O(𝜆)
length-doubling PRG evaluations (for a total of O(𝜆𝑛) evalua-
tions), plus one evaluation of the leaf-stretching PRG.
As per Definition 4, 𝑀0 + 𝑀1 ∈(F2𝐿)1×𝑛has message 𝑀
in its 𝑖th column and zero elsewhere—provided the sender
generated (dpf0, dpf1) honestly, which the servers confirm via
any of the three audit protocol instantiations. Sabre-M0 very
quickly rejects malformed DPFs outright, whereas (like in
Express) otherwise well-formed DPFs whose distinguished
points do not correspond to registered mailbox addresses
will pass auditing, ultimately resulting in a (comparatively
expensive) no-operation “update” to the mailbox database. In
particular, such well-formed, yet bogus writes incur the same
decidedly non-trivial cost as “true” writes.
2) Sabre-M1: Sabre-M0 with shorter DPFs: Sabre-M1 pro-
vides a modest improvement over Sabre-M0 by dynamically
“truncating” mailbox addresses to a prefix just long enough to
avoid collisions with high probability, thereby reducing both
(i) the size of (and cost of auditing) the keys dpf0 and dpf1
and (ii) the cost of computing 𝑀0 and 𝑀1 from them.
Upon registering a mailbox, the recipient still receives a
uniform random, 𝜆-bit mailbox address that senders must
know (in its entirety) to deposit messages into the mailbox.
The difference is that now only a prefix of this address (whose
length grows with the number of registered mailboxes) is
used when sampling and evaluating DPFs. The intuition here
is that—for purposes of correctness—it suffices merely to
guarantee that no two mailboxes map to the same prefix;
thus, one can compute the required prefix length for a given
number of registered mailboxes using a standard birthday
15
1967
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on October 03,2025 at 15:45:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

bound calculation. (In our experiments in Section VII-D, we
chose the length to ensure that the probability of one or more
prefix collisions is strictly less than 0.001.)
This optimization improves efficiency relative to Sabre-M0.
However, it comes at the cost of increasing the probability of
an attacker “guessing” a distinguished point corresponding to
a valid mailbox—that is, random guesses potentially clobber a
registered mailbox with a probability that is now polynomial
in 𝑛. To mitigate, Sabre-M1 requires the sender to transmit
an additive share [addr] of the full mailbox address alongside
dpf𝑏, after which the servers use a simple PIR-based protocol
to verify that the address shares reconstruct to the full
address of whatever mailbox the DPF keys reference.
Specifically, servers 0 and 1 hold in common an associative
array (key-value store) mapping each distinguished input to
its corresponding mailbox addresses. Let 𝐷denote the set of
distinguished inputs reflected in the associative array and,
for each 𝑖∈𝐷, let flag
(𝑖)
𝑏denote the advice bit for the 𝑖th leaf
of dpf𝑏(see Section V-A). By construction, if (dpf0, dpf1) is
a valid DPF key pair, then flag
(𝑖)
0 = flag
(𝑖)
1 if and only if the
distinguished point is 𝑖; thus, server 𝑏outputs
[addr′]𝑏B Í
𝑖∈𝐷,𝑡(𝑏)
𝑖
=1 addr𝑖
so that [addr′]0 + [addr′]1 = addr𝑖over F2𝜆. The server
verify that this computed address [addr′] matches the client’s
claimed address [addr] by checking that [addr]0 + [addr′]0 =
[addr]1 + [addr′]1.
The full-domain evaluation procedure still does not ap-
ply when computing 𝑀𝑏in Sabre-M1; however, now the
cost of computing each column reduces from O(𝜆) to just
O(poly(lg𝑛)) length-doubling PRG evaluations (reducing the
total cost of computing 𝑀𝑏from O(𝑛𝜆) to just O(𝑛poly(lg𝑛))
evaluations), plus 𝑛evaluations of the leaf-stretching PRG.
Furthermore, the servers can now detect and reject DPFs
from senders who do not know a registered mailbox ad-
dress without incurring a costly no-operation to “update” the
database.
3) Sabre-M2: Sabre-M1 with decoupled address checking:
Sabre-M2 improves on Sabre-M1 by eliminating the asso-
ciation between DPF leaves and mailbox addresses: Instead
of sampling DPFs whose distinguished points correspond to
mailbox addresses, senders sample DPFs whose distinguished
points correspond to the chronological order in which those
mailboxes were registered. In other words, to deposit a mes-
sage 𝑀∈F2𝐿into the mailbox with address addr𝑖, a sender
samples keys for a DPF with point (𝑖, 𝑀) ∈{0, . . . ,𝑛−1}×F2𝐿
rather than (addr𝑖, 𝑀) ∈F2𝜆× F2𝐿. With this optimization,
(i) the domain of DPFs has size equal to the number of regis-
tered mailboxes, and (ii) the full-domain evaluation procedure
applies when computing the 𝑀𝑏. This reduces the total cost of
computing 𝑀𝑏to just 𝑛−1 length-doubling PRG evaluations
plus 𝑛evaluations of the leaf-stretching PRG. To ensure that
senders know the correct mailbox address, Sabre-M2 inherits
the PIR-based address checking of Sabre-M1.
4) Sabre-M: Sabre-M2 with O(1)-time address checking:
Sabre-M improves on Sabre-M2 by replacing the linear-com-
plexity PIR-based address check with a constant-complexity
PRF-based one described in Section IV. With this modification
in place, the entire auditing procedure—that is, both checking
the well-formedness of the DPF and checking the validity of
the mailbox address—has complexity logarithmic in 𝑛, allow-
ing the servers to rapidly reject bogus write requests from a
would-be resource-exhaustion DoS attacker. The benefits of
rapid auditing are shown in our experimental evaluation in
Section VII.
Figure 10 plots the throughput of each Sabre-M variant.
Notice that the plots for Sabre-M2 and Sabre-M overlap al-
most perfectly; we stress that this neck-to-neck performance
is an artifact of all writes being valid.
E. Proof of Theorem 3 (from Section V-B2)
Theorem 3 (Restatement). The 3-verifier SNIP auditing
protocol with hash function Hash: {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}𝜇is per-
fectly simulatable and has perfect completeness and soundness
overwhelming in 𝜇.
Proof (sketch). Perfect simulatability and completeness are
immediate consequences of the perfect simulatability and
completeness of (2+1)-party auditing. To see that soundness
is indeed overwhelming in 𝜇, it suffices to note that since the
three verifiers collectively scrutinize all three parties’ views
from a simulated (2 + 1)-party audit, inconsistencies in the
simulation will never escape notice by at least one verifier—
except, perhaps, in the event of a hash collision when
constructing the Merkle tree. In other words, in the absence
of hash collisions, soundness is perfect and, consequently, the
overall soundness error is negligible in 𝜇.
□
F. Proof of Theorem 4 (from Section V-B3)
Theorem 4 (Restatement). The 2-verifier SNIP auditing
protocol with hash function Hash: {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}𝜇is per-
fectly simulatable and has perfect completeness and soundness
overwhelming in 𝜇.
Proof (sketch). Perfect simulatability and completeness are
immediate consequences of the perfect simulatability and
completeness of the 2-verifier SNIPs (which, in turn, are
an immediate consequence of the perfect simulatability and
completeness of (2+1)-party auditing). To prove that sound-
ness is overwhelming in 𝜇, we note that even a single
inconsistency-free simulation among the 𝜆parallel simula-
tions is sufficient to establish well-formedness of the DPF
with probability overwhelming in 𝜇; thus, we can assume
without loss of generality that all simulations are inconsistent
to get an upper bound on soundness error. For a given
inconsistent simulation, there are two possibilities:
1) inconsistencies are confined to the view of server 2; or
2) inconsistencies exist in the view of server 0 or server 1
(or both).
In either case, at least one verifier will observe any incon-
sistencies in the 𝑖th parallel simulation with probability at
least 1
2 (i.e., conditioned on the 𝑖th challenge bit, 𝑐𝑖), yielding
16
1968
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on October 03,2025 at 15:45:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

an overall soundness loss of at most 1/2𝜆relative to the 3-
verifier SNIP, which has soundness error negligible in 𝜇.
□
G. Security Analysis
This appendix provides a formal definition and proof
sketch for Sabre in the ideal-world/real-world simulation
paradigm. In the ideal world, all Sabre clients interact
through some benevolent trusted party T (the “ideal func-
tionality”), who faithfully executes the requested actions
while remaining impervious to cryptographic attacks. In the
real world, we replace T with one of the 2- or 3-server Sabre
protocols described in the main text. We then consider a
semi-honest attacker A who controls an arbitrary number
of readers and writers in addition to (at most) one of the
Sabre servers.
Informally, we wish to show that A cannot exploit its
privileged position as a Sabre server to compromise sender
anonymity. We do this by exhibiting an efficient simulator
that interacts with the ideal functionality and then attempts
to sample “simulated” views from a distribution close to
the one describing A’s view in the real world. We then
ask whether A can adaptively conjure up sequences of
events allowing it to distinguish between real and simulated
views; if not, we conclude that the real Sabre protocols leak
essentially nothing beyond what is leaked by their ideal-
world counterparts.
1) Sabre in the ideal world: The ideal world trusted party T
exposes six public interfaces. In addition to servicing requests
to these interfaces, T curates persistent variables that capture
both the state of the system and any side information that
Sabre servers can infer in the real world (without T revealing
this side information to the simulator, faithful simulations
would not be possible):
- 𝑚,𝑤∈N respectively track the numbers of readers and
writers in the system (both values are initially 0);
- addr𝑗denotes the mailbox address/bucket index at which
reader 𝑗will check for messages
- known denotes the sets of readers whose mailbox ad-
dresses/bucket indexes have been disclosed to A (it is
initially ∅);
- evil denotes the set of “corrupted” readers whose mail-
boxes are readable by A (it is initially ∅);
- log is an append-only log of metadata associated with all
requests received by T to date (it is initially an empty
list); and
- 𝐷is the actual database of mailboxes/buckets (it is
initially an empty list).
The RegisterWriter interface onboards a new writer to
the system. This interface has no immediate counterpart in
real world; rather, it captures the fact that real-world Sabre
servers may be able to distinguish certain writers from one
another (e.g., by their IP addresses).
Algorithm 1 RegisterWriter()
1: 𝑤←𝑤+ 1
// increment writer count
2:
return 𝑤
// w is the writer’s "identity"
The RegisterReader interface onboards new readers to
the system. In the bulletin-board model, this interface has no
immediate counterpart in the real world; rather, it captures
the fact that readers and writers need to agree on a bucket
through which to pass messages. In the mailbox model, this
interface corresponds to mailbox registration.
Algorithm 2 RegisterReader()
1: 𝑚←𝑚+ 1
// increment reader count
2:
if Sabre-BB then
addr𝑚
?←{0, 1}𝑛
// random address
evil ←evil ∪{𝑚}
// buckets are world-readable
3:
else if Sabre-M then
addr𝑚B 𝐹( ˜𝑘,𝑚)
// PRF-computed address
known ←known∪{𝑚}// server-computable addresses
4:
end if
5:
log ←log∥"r:𝑚"
6:
return 𝑚
// m is the reader’s identity
The GetAddress interface allows A to request the mailbox
address (or bucket index) of a given reader. Note that we
differentiate between A controlling a reader versus merely
knowing its mailbox address: To write messages to a mailbox,
A need only know its address; to read from the mailbox, A
must control the reader.
Algorithm 3 GetAddress(𝑗)
1:
if (𝑗> 𝑚) then
return ⊥
// no such reader!
2:
known ←known ∪{𝑗}
// add j to known addresses
3:
return addr𝑗
// then disclose j’s address
The CorruptReader interface allows A to take control of
an arbitrary reader (whose address A already knows).
Algorithm 4 CorruptReader(𝑗)
1:
if (𝑗∉known) then
return ⊥
// must get address first!
2:
evil ←evil ∪{𝑗}
// add j to corrupt list
The Write interface allows A to write a message for a
given reader, provided it knows that reader’s address. This
interface also allows A to initiate write requests that fail
address verification or auditing (by setting 𝑑< ℎ).
Algorithm 5 Write(𝑖, 𝑗, addr, 𝑀,𝑑[= ℎ])
1:
if (𝑖> 𝑤) then
return ⊥
// no such writer
2:
if (𝑗> 𝑚∨addr ≠addr𝑗) then
log ←log∥"w:(𝑖, ⊥)" // address check failed
return ⊥
// abort without writing
3:
if (𝑑≠ℎ) then
log ←log∥"w:(𝑖,𝑑)" // audit failed at level d
return ⊥
// abort without writing
4:
log ←log∥"w:(𝑖, ⊤)"
// this is a valid write
5:
𝐷𝑗←𝐷𝑗+ 𝑀
// effectuate the write
17
1969
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on October 03,2025 at 15:45:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

The EndEpoch interface ends the current epoch, writing all
corrupted readers’ mailbox/bucket contents to the log.
Algorithm 6 EndEpoch()
1:
msgs ←{(𝑗, 𝐷𝑗) | 𝑗∈evil} // corrupted mailbox contents
2:
𝐷←⟨0, 0, . . . , 0⟩
// re-initialize the database
3:
log ←log∥"e:msgs"
// new epoch after this point
2) Security theorem: We now present and sketch a proof
for Sabre-M’s main security theorem (the theorems and
proofs for Sabre-BB and Sabre-M0 through Sabre-M2 are
similar). Intuitively, the theorem asserts that there exists a
PPT simulator that, given only the append-only log and PRF
key ˜𝑘as input, can convincingly simulate the view of an
arbitrary semi-honest Sabre server.
Theorem 5 (somewhat informal). Sabre is a secure SAM
scheme; that is, there exists a PPT simulator that, given the
PRF key ˜𝑘and side information reflected in log, simulates the
view of a (semi-honest, PPT) real-world attacker A controlling
at most one Sabre server and an arbitrary subset of writers and
readers.
Proof (sketch). There are 5 distinct types of entries that can
appear on log; we briefly describe how the simulator deals
with each of these five message types in turn.
1. "r:𝑚": This entry appears in the log when the 𝑚th
reader registers her mailbox.
In Sabre-M, mailbox registration consists of a server
evaluating 𝐹( ˜𝑘,𝑚) and then sending the result to the
registrant; hence, the simulator (who is privy to ˜𝑘) need
only invoke addr𝑚←𝐹( ˜𝑘,𝑚) and record the resulting
mailbox address in its simulation transcripts.
2. "w:(𝑖, ⊥)": This entry appears in the log when reader 𝑖
submits a write request that fails the mailbox address check.
In Sabre-M, the servers verify addresses by computing
[addr′] ←𝐹( ˜𝑘, [𝑖]) and then comparing it against [addr];
hence, the simulator (who is privy to ˜𝑘) first invokes the
simulator for the DPFs to sample a valid-looking DPF key,
and then it samples uniform random values for [𝑖]𝑏and
[addr]𝑏, and then it simulates the computation of [addr] ←
𝐹( ˜𝑘, [𝑖]). Finally, it computes 𝐴𝑏
= [addr]𝑏+ [addr′]𝑏,
samples a uniform random 𝐴1−𝑏≠𝐴𝑏, and then records
all of these values in its simulation transcript.
3. "w:(𝑖,𝑑)": This entry appears in the log when reader 𝑖
submits a write request that passes the mailbox check but
fails auditing at level 𝑑.
The simulator invokes the simulator for the DPF to
produce a valid-looking DPF key, and then it repeatedly
invokes the simulator for Du-Atallah multiplication to
construct an accepting proof up to level 𝑑−1. In Step 2
of level 𝑑, it samples uniform random 𝑣
(¯𝑖𝑑)
0
and 𝑣
(¯𝑖𝑑)
1
with
𝑣
(¯𝑖𝑑)
0
≠𝑣
(¯𝑖𝑑)
1
(causing the servers to reject), and then it
records these values in its simulation transcript.
4. "w:(𝑖, ⊤)": This entry appears in the log when reader 𝑖
successfully writes a message to some reader.
The simulator proceeds exactly as in the case of
"w:(𝑖,𝑑)", except it does not reject along the way and
instead accepts after level ℎ. It then invokes the full-
domain evaluation on its (simulated) DPF key and adds the
resulting vector component-wise into its mailbox database.
5. "e:msgs": This entry appears in the log when the epoch
ends (at which point all readers receive any messages that
were written into their mailboxes.
The simulator uses the messages in msgs together with
its simulated mailbox database to solve for the matching
shares from server 𝑏−1 and then it records these values
in its simulation transcripts for each corrupted reader.
□
H. Sabre Communication Cost
In this section, we will present the calculations that lead
to the communication cost described in Table I.
We first calculate the size of 𝑀𝑏→(1−𝑏)
𝑖
. The transcript from
server 0 to server 1 include the following (the transcript of
server 1 to server 0 is the same).
(i) shares of the children of the root = 16 bytes, (ii) oblivi-
ous encryption, FPRG = (4·3·s·r/8)(ℎ−1) bytes, (iii) conditional
swap, FSWAP = 16 · ℎbytes, (iv) applying the correction word
= 16 · (ℎ−1) bytes, and (v) computing the next flag bit
(1/8+1/8)·(ℎ−1) bytes. size of 𝑀𝑏→(1−𝑏)
𝑖
= 16+(16 1
8+3
2 sr)(ℎ−1)
Next, we calculate the size 𝑀2→𝑏
𝑖
for 𝑏∈{0, 1}. (i) seed to
generate the randomness = 16 bytes,, (ii) oblivious encryp-
tion, FPRG = (4 · 3 · s · r/8)(ℎ−1), (iii) applying the correction
word = 16 · (ℎ−1) bytes, (iv) conditional swap, FSWAP = 16 ·ℎ
bytes, and (v) computing the next flag bit (1/8) · (ℎ−1) bytes.
size of 𝑀𝑏→(1−𝑏)
𝑖
= 16+ (32 1
8 + 3
2 sr)(ℎ−1)
1) 2-Verifier Sabre:
a) Client to server 𝑏: In the 2-Verifier Sabre, the client
sends the following to server 𝑏, for 𝑏∈{0, 1}. (i) DPF seed,
and (ii) Proof of the well-formedness of the DPF.
Proof includes the following:
1) Merkle Tree Root = (16 bytes)
2) for one set of 64 iterations: (i) 𝑀𝑏→(1−𝑏)
𝑖
, (ii) 𝑀2→𝑏
𝑖
, and
(iii) 𝐻2→(1−𝑏)
𝑖
, 𝐻2→𝑏
𝑖
= (2 · 16 = 32) bytes.
3) for the other set of 64 iterations: (i) a seed = (64 · 16)
bytes, and (ii) 𝐻𝑏→(1−𝑏)
𝑖
, 𝐻(1−𝑏)→𝑏
𝑖
) = (2 · 16 = 32) bytes.
2) 3-Verifier Sabre: In a 3-Verifier Sabre, the client sends
the following messages to server 2.
1) Merkle Tree Root = (16 bytes)
2) 𝐻𝑏→(1−𝑏), 𝐻(1−𝑏)→𝑏= (2 · 16 bytes)
3) seed = 16 bytes.
Similarly, the client sends the following message to
server 𝑏(𝑏∈{0, 1}).
1) Merkle Tree Root = (16 bytes)
2) 𝑀𝑏→(1−𝑏), 𝑀(1−𝑏)→𝑏
3) 𝐻2→𝑏= (16 bytes).
18
1970
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on October 03,2025 at 15:45:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

