Sound Veriﬁcation of Security Protocols:
From Design to Interoperable Implementations
Linard Arquint∗
, Felix A. Wolf∗
, Joseph Lallemand†, Ralf Sasse∗
,
Christoph Sprenger∗
, Sven N. Wiesner∗
, David Basin∗
, and Peter Müller∗
∗Department of Computer Science, ETH Zurich, Switzerland
†Univ Rennes, CNRS, IRISA, France
{linard.arquint, felix.wolf, ralf.sasse, sprenger, sven.wiesner,
basin, peter.mueller}@inf.ethz.ch, joseph.lallemand@irisa.fr
Abstract—We provide a framework consisting of tools and
metatheorems for the end-to-end veriﬁcation of security pro-
tocols, which bridges the gap between automated protocol
veriﬁcation and code-level proofs. We automatically translate
a Tamarin protocol model into a set of I/O speciﬁcations
expressed in separation logic. Each such speciﬁcation describes
a protocol role’s intended I/O behavior against which the
role’s implementation is then veriﬁed. Our soundness result
guarantees that the veriﬁed implementation inherits all secu-
rity (trace) properties proved for the Tamarin model. Our
framework thus enables us to leverage the substantial body of
prior veriﬁcation work in Tamarin to verify new and existing
implementations. The possibility to use any separation logic
code veriﬁer provides ﬂexibility regarding the target language.
To validate our approach and show that it scales to real-
world protocols, we verify a substantial part of the ofﬁcial Go
implementation of the WireGuard VPN key exchange protocol.
Index Terms—Protocol veriﬁcation, Symbolic security, Auto-
mated veriﬁcation, Tamarin, Separation logic, Implementation.
1. Introduction
Security protocols are central to securing communication
and distributed computation and, by nature, they are often
employed in critical applications. Unfortunately, as history
amply demonstrates, they are notoriously difﬁcult to get right,
and their ﬂaws can be a source of devastating attacks. Hence
the importance of their formal modeling and veriﬁcation.
Over the past decades, expressive and highly automated
security protocol veriﬁers have been developed, including the
two state-of-the-art tools Tamarin [1], [2] and ProVerif [3],
which have been used to analyze real-world protocols such as
TLS [4], 5G [5], and EMV [6]. These tools build on a model
of cryptographic protocols called the symbolic or Dolev-
Yao model, where cryptographic primitives are idealized,
protocols are modeled by process algebras or rewriting
systems, and the attacker is an abstract entity controlling the
network and manipulating messages represented as terms.
However, the protocol veriﬁed is a highly abstract version of
the actual protocol executed and there is a priori no formal
link between these two versions. The problem of verifying
the security of protocol implementations has been studied
before, but the solutions usually come with severe limitations,
the most important of which we highlight here. Section 7
contains a detailed overview of related work.
Many existing approaches are based on code generation
or model extraction, and either extract executable code from
a relatively abstract veriﬁed model (e.g. [7], [8], [9]) or
conversely extract a model from the code for veriﬁcation
(e.g. [10]). Another recent approach, DY⋆[11], provides a
framework to write an executable implementation in F⋆and
obtain a corresponding model that can be reasoned about
symbolically, also in F⋆. Other methods adopt an approach,
where security is proved in a computational model (e.g. [12],
[13], [14]). These models are more precise and thus give
stronger guarantees than symbolic ones. However, their
proofs are very difﬁcult to automate.
These previous approaches are usually tied to a speciﬁc
implementation language, like ML, F#, or Java dialects, and
they are difﬁcult to extend to other languages. They are there-
fore ill-suited to verifying pre-existing implementations, espe-
cially when used for code extraction. In addition, the extrac-
tion mechanisms used are not always proved correct or even
formalized, which weakens the guarantees for the resulting
code. Moreover, in many cases, the security proof is tailored
to the implementation considered rather than constructed at
an abstract level by a standard security protocol veriﬁer such
as Tamarin or ProVerif. Hence one can neither leverage these
tools’ automation capabilities nor the substantial prior work
invested in security protocol proofs using them.
Our approach. We propose a novel approach to end-to-end
veriﬁed security protocol implementations. Our approach
leverages the combined power of state-of-the-art security
protocol veriﬁers and source code veriﬁers. This provides
abstract, concise, and expressive security protocol speciﬁca-
tions on the modeling side and ﬂexibility and versatility on
the implementation side.
More precisely, our approach bridges abstract security
protocol models expressed in Tamarin as multi-set rewriting
1077
2023 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP)
© 2023, Linard Arquint. Under license to IEEE.
DOI 10.1109/SP46215.2023.00061
2023 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) | 978-1-6654-9336-9/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/SP46215.2023.10179325
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 14,2025 at 13:39:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

systems with concrete program speciﬁcations expressed as
I/O speciﬁcations (in a dialect of separation logic [15]),
against which implementations can be veriﬁed. Its technical
core is a procedure, implemented in an associated tool, that
translates Tamarin models into I/O speciﬁcations along with
a soundness proof, stating that an implementation satisfying
the I/O speciﬁcations reﬁnes the abstract model in terms of
trace inclusion. As a result, any trace property proved for the
abstract model using Tamarin, including standard security
protocol properties such as secrecy and authentication, also
holds for the implementation.
Our approach provides a modular and ﬂexible way to
verify security protocol implementations. On the model
veriﬁcation side, we can leverage Tamarin’s proof automation
capabilities to prove protocols secure. Moreover, we can
prove a given protocol’s security once in Tamarin, and reuse
this proof to verify multiple implementations of this protocol,
rather than having to produce a custom security proof for
each implementation. In fact, numerous complex, real-world
protocols have been analyzed using Tamarin over the years.
Using our method, this substantial body of prior work can
be exploited to verify implementations.
On the code veriﬁcation side, the I/O speciﬁcations we
produce can be encoded in many existing veriﬁers that
support separation logic. Our tool currently generates I/O
speciﬁcations for the Go code veriﬁer Gobra [16] and for the
Java code veriﬁer VeriFast [17], which we respectively use for
our case study and for our running example. It could easily be
extended to other veriﬁers supporting I/O speciﬁcations such
as Nagini [18] for Python code. In addition, the requirements
for adding other code veriﬁers based on separation logic
to our arsenal are low: they need to only support abstract
predicates to encode I/O speciﬁcations and to guarantee that
successful veriﬁcation implies trace inclusion between the
I/O traces of the program and those of its I/O speciﬁcation.
We establish our central soundness result relating Tamarin
models via I/O speciﬁcations to implementations. This result
follows a methodology inspired by the Igloo framework [19],
which provides a series of generic steps that gradually
transform an abstract model into an I/O speciﬁcation, and
requires establishing a reﬁnement relation between each
successive pair of steps. We take similar steps and prove these
reﬁnements once and for all starting from a generic Tamarin
system, so that our method can be applied to obtain an I/O
speciﬁcation from any Tamarin protocol model (under some
mild syntactic assumptions) without any additional proof.
Our contributions. We summarize our contributions as
follows. First, we design a framework for the end-to-end
veriﬁcation of security protocol implementations. This con-
sists of a procedure and an associated tool to extract I/O
speciﬁcations from a Tamarin model, which can be veriﬁed
on implementation code. Our soundness result ensures that
the implementation inherits all properties proven in Tamarin.
Second, we propose a novel approach to relate the
I/O speciﬁcations’ symbolic terms to the code’s bytestring
messages. We parameterize the code veriﬁers’ semantics with
an abstraction function, instantiate it to a message abstraction
function, and identify assumptions and proof obligations to
verify that the code correctly implements terms as bytestrings.
Finally, to validate our approach, we perform a substantial
case study on a complex, real-world protocol: the WireGuard
key exchange, which is part of the widely-used WireGuard
VPN in the Linux kernel. We verify a part of the ofﬁcial Go
implementation of WireGuard which is interoperable with
the full version. Using our method, we thereby obtain an end-
to-end symbolically veriﬁed WireGuard implementation. All
our models, code, and proofs are available online [20], [21].
2. Background
We present background on tools and methodology.
2.1. Tamarin and multiset rewriting
The Tamarin prover [1], [2] is an automatic, state-of-
the-art, security protocol veriﬁcation tool that works in the
symbolic model. Tamarin has been used to ﬁnd weaknesses in
and verify improvements to substantial real-world protocols
like the 5G AKA protocol [5], [22], TLS 1.3 [23], the Noise
framework [24], and EMV payment card protocols [6], [25].
Protocols are represented as multiset rewriting (MSR)
systems, where each rewrite rule represents a step or action
taken by a protocol participant or the attacker. We present
the following building blocks: messages, facts, and rules.
Message
terms
are
elements
of
a
term
algebra
T = TΣ(N ∪V). These are built over a signature Σ of func-
tion symbols and a set of names N = fresh ∪pub consisting
of a set of fresh names fresh (for secret values, generated by
parties, unguessable by the attacker), a countably inﬁnite set
of public names pub (for globally known values), and a set
of variables V. Cryptographic messages M are modeled as
ground terms, i.e., terms without variables. The term algebra
is equipped with an equational theory E, which is a set of
equations, and we denote by =E the equality modulo E.
Example 1 (Difﬁe-Hellman equational theory). The signed
Difﬁe-Hellman (DH) protocol is a well-known key exchange
protocol, where two agents A and B exchange two DH public
keys, gx and gy, to establish the shared key gxy (where g is
a group generator). For the Tamarin model, we use a term
signature containing symbolsˆ, g, sign, verify, pk modeling
respectively exponentiation, the group generator, signature,
veriﬁcation, and public keys. We use the simpliﬁed theory:
(gx)y = (gy)x
verify(sign(x, k), pk(k)) = true
Tamarin’s actual model includes further equations. The
protocol’s informal description is as follows:
A →B :
gx
x fresh
B →A :
sign(⟨0, B, A, gx, gy⟩, kB)
y fresh
A →B :
sign(⟨1, A, B, gy, gx⟩, kA)
agree on (gx)y =E (gy)x
The tags 0 and 1 are used to distinguish the last two messages.
All parties, including the attacker, can use the equational
theory. The attacker also has its own set of rewriting rules,
expressing that it can intercept, modify, block, and recombine
2
1078
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 14,2025 at 13:39:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

all network messages, following the classic Dolev-Yao (DY)
model [26]. These rules are generated automatically from the
equational theory, but users may formalize additional rules
giving the attacker further scenario-speciﬁc capabilities.
Facts are simply atomic predicates applied to message
terms, constructed over a signature Σfacts = Σlin ⊎Σper
of fact symbols, partitioned into linear (Σlin), i.e., single-
use, and persistent (Σper) facts, which encode the state of
agents and the network. We write F = {F(t1, . . . , tk) | F ∈
Σfacts with arity k, and t1, . . . , tk ∈T } for the set of facts
instantiated with terms, partitioned into Flin ⊎Fper as
expected. In addition, ∪m, ∩m, \m, ⊆m, and ∈m denote
the usual operations and relations on multisets, and for a
multiset m, set(m) denotes the set of its elements.
A multiset rewriting (MSR) rule, written l
a
−→r, contains
multisets of facts l and r on the left and right-hand side,
and is labeled with a, a multiset of actions (also facts, but
disjoint from state facts) used for property speciﬁcation. A
MSR system R is a ﬁnite set of rewrite rules. A MSR
system R and an equational theory E have a semantics as a
labeled transition system (LTS), whose states are multisets
of ground facts from F, the initial state is empty ([]), and
the transition relation
·
=⇒R,E is deﬁned by
l
a
−→r ∈R
l′
a′
−→r′ =E (l
a
−→r)θ
l′ ∩m Flin ⊆m S
set(l′) ∩Fper ⊆set(S)
S
a′
=⇒R,E S \m (l′ ∩m Flin) ∪m r′
,
(1)
where θ is a ground instance of the variables in l, a, and r.
Intuitively, the relation describes an update of state S to a
successor state, that is possible when a given rule in R is
applicable, i.e., an instantiation with some θ (mod E) of its
left-hand side appears in S. Applying the rule consumes the
linear but not the persistent facts appearing in its left-hand
side, and adds the instantiations under θ of all the facts of
its right-hand side to the resulting successor state.
The MSR rules used in Tamarin feature the reserved
fact symbols K ∈Σper, and Fr, in, out ∈Σlin, modeling
respectively the attacker’s knowledge, freshness generation,
inputs, and outputs. The attacker is modeled by a set of
message deduction rules MDΣ, giving it the DY capabilities
mentioned above. A distinguished freshness rule, labeled
Fr(n), generates fresh values n, which either protocol agents
or the attacker directly learn, but never both.
Finally, a protocol’s observable behaviors are its traces,
which are sequences of multisets of actions labeling a
sequence of transitions. We deﬁne the sets of full traces
and of ﬁltered traces with empty labels removed.
Tr(R) = {⟨ai⟩1≤i≤m |
∃s1, . . . , sm. []
a1
=⇒R,E s1
a2
=⇒R,E . . .
am
=⇒R,E sm}
Tr′(R) = {⟨ai⟩1≤i≤m,ai̸=[] | ⟨ai⟩1≤i≤m ∈Tr(R)}.
To ensure that fresh values are unique, we exclude traces
with colliding fresh values by deﬁning
Trt(R) = {⟨ai⟩1≤i≤m ∈Tr′(R) |
∀i, j, n. Fr(n) ∈ai ∩m aj ⇒i = j}.
We will abbreviate inclusions between each kind of trace
sets using the relation symbols ≼, ≼′, and ≼t. For example,
R1 ≼t R2 denotes Trt(R1) ⊆Trt(R2), and similarly for
the other two. Note that ≼⊆≼′ ⊆≼t.
We focus here on Tamarin’s trace properties (i.e., sets
of traces) such as secrecy and authentication [27]. An MSR
R satisﬁes a trace property Φ, if Trt(R) ⊆Φ.
Example 2 (Difﬁe-Hellman). Continuing Example 1, we use
the linear fact symbols SetupAlice(init), Step1
Alice(init, x),
Step2
Alice(init, x, gy) to initialize and record the progress
of agent A playing the role of Alice in the protocol. The
parameters of the facts store her knowledge. Alice’s state
is initialized with init = rid, A, kA, B, pkB, i.e., a thread
identiﬁer, her identity, her private key, and her partner’s
identity and public key. This state is then extended with her
share of the secret x, and the DH public key gy she received.
For Alice, the two steps of the protocol can then be modeled
by the rules:
[SetupAlice(init), Fr(x)]
[]−→[Step1
Alice(init, x), out(gx)]
[Step1
Alice(init, x), in(sign(⟨0, B, A, gx, Y ⟩, kB))]
[Secret(Y x)]
−−−−−−−−→
[Step2
Alice(init, x, Y ), out(sign(⟨1, A, B, Y, gx⟩, kA))]
The received signature is checked using pattern-matching,
knowing that pkB = pk(kB). The action fact Secret(Y x)
in the second rule is used to specify key secrecy. It records
Alice’s belief that the key she computes from the value Y
(supposedly gy) received from Bob remains secret. The fact
SetupAlice(init) in the ﬁrst rule is produced by another rule,
modeling the environment initializing Alice’s knowledge:
[Fr(rid), sk(A, kA), pk(B, pkB)]
[]−→[SetupAlice(rid, A, kA, B, pkB)].
2.2. Separation logic and I/O speciﬁcations
Separation logic enables sound and modular reasoning
about heap manipulating programs by associating every
allocated heap location with a permission. Permissions are a
static concept used to verify programs, but do not affect their
runtime behavior. Each permission is held by at most one
function execution at each point in the program execution.
To access a heap location, a function must hold the
associated permission; otherwise, a veriﬁcation error occurs.
The separating conjunction ⋆sums up the permissions in its
conjuncts. Permissions to an unbounded set of locations, for
instance, all locations of a linked list, can be expressed via
co-recursive predicates. Moreover, abstract predicates are
useful to specify permissions to an unknown set of locations.
Permission-based reasoning generalizes from heap
locations to other kinds of program resources. Penninckx et
al. [28] reason about a program’s I/O behavior by associating
each I/O operation with a permission that is required to
call the operation and is then consumed. They equip the
main function’s precondition with an I/O speciﬁcation that
grants all permissions necessary to perform the desired
I/O operations of the entire program execution. These I/O
speciﬁcations can easily be encoded in standard separation
3
1079
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 14,2025 at 13:39:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

requires token(?p1) && out(p1,v,?p2)
ensures
ok =⇒token(p2)
ensures !ok =⇒token(p1) && out(p1,v,p2)
func send(v int) (ok bool)
Figure 1.
Speciﬁcation of the send operation with I/O permissions.
Variables starting with ? are implicitly existentially quantiﬁed. The code
veriﬁer uses && to denote the separating conjunction ⋆.
logic, such that existing program veriﬁers supporting different
programming languages can be used to verify I/O behavior.
Every I/O operation io, such as sending or receiving
a value, is associated with an abstract predicate io, called
an I/O permission. Intuitively, io(p1, ¯v, ¯w, p2) expresses the
permission to perform io with outputs ¯v and inputs ¯w.
We use ¯x to denote a vector of zero or more values. The
parameters p1 and p2 are called source and target places,
respectively. An abstract predicate token(p) is called a
token at place p. The I/O operation io moves a token from
the source place p1 to the target place p2 by consuming
token(p1) and producing token(p2). Hence, the position of
the token indicates the currently allowed I/O operations.
Example 3 (Send I/O operation). Figure 1 shows the signa-
ture and speciﬁcation of a send function. The precondition
requires an I/O permission out to send the value v at some
source place p1 with the corresponding token. When the
send operation succeeds, the I/O permission is consumed
and the token is moved to some target place p2. In case of
failure, the token remains at the source place and the I/O
permission is not consumed.
The separating conjunction of I/O permissions with the
same source place encodes non-deterministic choice between
such permissions. Moreover, co-recursion enables repeated
as well as non-terminating sequences of I/O operations.
Example 4 (I/O speciﬁcation for a server).
P(p, S) = Q(p, S) ⋆R(p, S)
Q(p1, S) = ∃v, p2, p3. in(p1, v, p2) ⋆out(p2, v, p3)
⋆P(p3, S ∪{v})
R(p1, S) = ∃p2. out(p1, “Ping”, p2) ⋆P(p2, S)
The formula φ = token(p) ⋆P(p, ∅) speciﬁes a non-
terminating server that repeatedly and non-deterministically
chooses between receiving and forwarding a value v or
sending a “Ping” message. All received values v are recorded
in the state S, which is initially empty. Input parameters, like
v in in here, are existentially quantiﬁed to avoid imposing
restrictions on the values received from the environment.
To enforce certain state updates between I/O operations,
it is useful to associate permissions also with certain internal
(that is, non-I/O) operations and include those internal
permissions in an I/O speciﬁcation. For instance, the above
server could include an internal operation to reset the state
S when it exceeds a certain size.
I/O speciﬁcations induce a transition system and hence
have a trace semantics. The traces can intuitively be seen as
the sequences of I/O permissions consumed by possible exe-
cutions of the programs that satisfy it. We write Tr(φ) for the
set of traces of an I/O speciﬁcation φ. In the example above,
the sequence in(5) · out(5) · out(“Ping”) · in(7) · out(7) is
one example of a trace of φ. Note that the I/O permissions’
place arguments do not appear in the trace.
3. From Tamarin models to I/O speciﬁcations
In this section, we present our transformation of a
Tamarin protocol model, given as an MSR system R, into
a set of I/O speciﬁcations ψi, one for each protocol role i.
The ψi serve as program speciﬁcations, against which the
roles’ implementations ci are veriﬁed (Section 4). Our main
result is an overall soundness guarantee stating that the traces
of the complete system C(c1, . . . , cn, E), composed of the
roles’ veriﬁed implementations ci and the environment E, are
contained in the traces of the protocol model R (Section 5):
C(c1, . . . , cn, E) ≼t R.
Hence, any trace property Φ proven for the protocol model,
i.e., Trt(R) ⊆Φ, is inherited by the implementation.
The sound transformation of an MSR protocol model R
into a set of I/O speciﬁcations is challenging:
1) Tamarin’s MSR formalism is very general and offers
great ﬂexibility in modeling protocols and their prop-
erties. We want to preserve this generality as much as
possible.
2) For the transformation to I/O speciﬁcations, we require
a separate description of each protocol role and of the
environment, with a clear interface between the two
parts. This interface will be mapped to I/O permissions
in the I/O speciﬁcation and eventually to (e.g., I/O or
cryptographic) library calls in the implementation.
3) The protocol models operate on abstract terms, whereas
the implementation manipulates bytestrings. We need
to bridge this gap in a sound manner.
Our solution is based on a general encoding of the
MSR semantics into I/O speciﬁcations. To separate the
different roles’ rewrite rules from each other and from
the environment, we partition the fact symbols and rewrite
rules accordingly. The interface between the roles and the
environment is deﬁned by identifying I/O fact symbols, for
which we introduce separate I/O rules. This isolates the I/O
operations from others and allows us to map them to I/O
permissions and later to library functions. Moreover, we keep
I/O speciﬁcations as abstract as possible by using message
terms rather than bytestrings. We handle the transition to
bytestrings in the code veriﬁcation process (Section 4).
The proofs for the results stated in this section can be
found in the full version of this paper [20].
3.1. Protocol format
We introduce a few mild formatting assumptions on
the Tamarin model. They mostly correspond to common
modeling practice and serve to cleanly separate the different
protocol roles and the environment. They do not restrict
4
1080
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 14,2025 at 13:39:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Tamarin’s expressiveness for modeling protocols. In particu-
lar, all protocols in the Tamarin distribution would ﬁt our
assumptions after some minor modiﬁcations.
3.1.1. Rule format. To model an n-role protocol, we use a
fact signature of the form
Σfacts = Σact ⊎Σenv ⊎

]
1≤i≤n
Σi
state

,
where (i) Σact, Σenv, and Σi
state are mutually disjoint sets of
fact symbols, used to construct action facts (used in transition
labels), environment facts, and each role i’s state facts; (ii)
Σenv contains two disjoint subsets, Σin and Σout, of input
and output fact symbols such that Fr, in ∈Σin, out ∈Σout,
and K ∈Σenv \(Σin ∪Σout); and (iii) there is an initialization
fact symbol Setupi ∈Σin for each protocol role i.
We consider MSR systems R whose rules are given by:
R = Renv ⊎

]
1≤i≤n
Ri

.
Here, Renv and the Ris are pairwise disjoint rule sets
containing rules for the environment and each protocol role.
Protocol rules use input and output facts to communicate with
the environment. For example, the following two environment
rules transfer a message to and from the attacker’s knowledge:
[out(x)]
[]−→[K(x)]
[K(x)]
[]−→[in(x)].
(2)
The attacker rules MDΣ, the freshness rule, and the rules
that generate the Setupi facts (cf. Example 2), are also in
Renv. The protocol rules for role i (and only those) use role
state facts from Σi
state to keep track of the role’s progress.
We require that their ﬁrst ki ≥1 arguments are reserved for
role i’s parameters from the Setupi fact, and that the ﬁrst
of these parameters is the thread identiﬁer rid.
For a more detailed speciﬁcation of the format restrictions
on the rewrite rules, see Appendix A.
3.1.2. Protocol messages. We support both the usual ways
of checking received messages using pattern matching and
explicit equality checks. The latter are formalized, as usual in
Tamarin, as a combination of action facts labeling the given
rule (e.g., Eq(x, hash(z))) and restrictions associating these
facts with (a boolean combination of) equalities (e.g., x =E y
whenever Eq(x, y) occurs in a trace). These restrictions act
as assumptions on the traces considered by Tamarin.1 The
I/O speciﬁcations resulting from our procedure require that
these equality checks are implemented (Section 3.3).
Furthermore, we recommend, but do not require, the
replacement of nested pairs and tuples by formats [29]. These
are user-deﬁned function symbols, along with projections for
all arguments, that behave like tuples. In the implementation,
each format is mapped to a combination of tags (i.e.,
1. To handle these, we use a modiﬁed, but equivalent MSR semantics,
where the equalities are checked at each step rather than globally on traces.
This semantics allows us to translate these checks into the I/O speciﬁcations
and thus enforce their correct implementation. For simplicity, we present
our results under the standard semantics and refer to [20] for more details.
constant bytestrings), ﬁxed-size ﬁelds, and variable-sized
ﬁelds prepended with a length ﬁeld. Formats help to soundly
relate term and bytestring messages, if we prove that they
are unambiguous and non-overlapping (see Section 4).
Example 5 (Difﬁe-Hellman formatting). The rules for Al-
ice’s role from Example 2 satisfy the format conditions above.
The initiator setup rule produces a fact SetupAlice(init),
whose parameters init appear as the ﬁrst parameters of the
state facts Step1
Alice(init, . . .) and Step2
Alice(init, . . .). Both
protocol rules produce an out fact to send a message. The
second rule also consumes an in fact to receive a message.
To follow our recommendation to use formats, we can model
the message ⟨0, B, A, gx, Y ⟩being signed as a format with
ﬁve ﬁelds, rather than a tuple. Note that, at the Tamarin level,
tuples containing unique tags to distinguish them behave
essentially the same as formats.
3.2. Transformation to component models
We decompose an MSR system R that satisﬁes our
format requirements into several component models, one
for each role, and a separate environment model, which
includes the attacker. In doing so, we move from a global
view of the protocol, useful for security analysis, to a local
view of each role, more appropriate for their implementation.
In Section 3.3, we transform the component models into
I/O speciﬁcations for the programs implementing them.
As a preparatory step, we reﬁne R into an interface model
which starts decoupling the roles from the environment by
introducing separate rewrite rules for their interactions.
3.2.1. Interface model. The protocol roles and the environ-
ment interact using input and output facts, including the
built-in facts Fr, in, and out. For example, the protocol roles
receive messages by consuming in facts produced by the
attacker. The interface model adds an I/O rule for each such
fact, which turns it into a buffered version. These I/O rules
will later be implemented as calls to library functions.
Let Σ−
in be the set Σin without the initialization facts
Setupi. We ﬁrst add to the fact signature, for each non-setup
input or output fact F and role i, a copy (the “buffer”) Fi:
Σi
buf = {Fi | F ∈Σ−
in ∪Σout}
Σi
role = Σi
state ∪Σi
buf
Σ′
facts = Σact ⊎Σenv ⊎(U
i Σi
role).
We then replace the facts used by the protocol rules as
follows. For each role i, let R′
i be the set of rules obtained
by replacing, in all rules in Ri, each fact F(t1, . . . , tk) such
that F ∈Σ−
in ∪Σout by Fi(rid, t1, . . . , tk). The latter fact
has rid as an additional parameter.
We also introduce the set Rio of I/O rules, which translate
between input or output facts and their buffered versions.
The set Rio contains the following rules, for each role i.
[F(x1, . . . , xk)]
[]−→[Fi(rid, x1, . . . , xk)]
for F ∈Σ−
in
[Gi(rid, x1, . . . , xk)]
[]−→[G(x1, . . . , xk)]
for G ∈Σout.
5
1081
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 14,2025 at 13:39:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

For reasons that will become clear later, we also count
the role setup rules as I/O rules. Hence, we move them from
Renv to Rio, calling the remaining environment rules R−
env.
Finally, the interface model is speciﬁed by:
Rintf = R−
env ⊎Rio ⊎(
]
i
R′
i).
(3)
Example 6. Continuing Example 5, we introduce the buffer
facts inAlice, outAlice, and FrAlice. Recall that rid is included
in init. This yields the modiﬁed set R′
Alice for the role Alice:
[SetupAlice(init), FrAlice(rid, x)]
[]−→
[Step1
Alice(init, x), outAlice(rid, gx)]
[Step1
Alice(init, x), inAlice(rid, sign(⟨0, B, A, gx, Y ⟩, kB))]
[Secret(Y x)]
−−−−−−−−→
[Step2
Alice(init, x, Y ), outAlice(rid, sign(⟨1, A, B, Y, gx⟩, kA))].
We show that the interface model reﬁnes the original one.
Lemma 1. Rintf ≼′ R.
3.2.2. Decomposition. We can now decompose the interface
model into the role components and the environment. In
a nutshell, we assign the rules R′
i to the component for
role i and the rules R−
env, including the attacker rules MDΣ,
to the environment. The protocol communicates with the
environment using the I/O rules. We split them into two
synchronized parts, one belonging to the environment
and the other to the protocol. Below, we show that the
re-composed system implements the interface model.
We explain the splitting of the I/O rules into a protocol
part and an environment part using the example rule
[outi(rid, x)]
[]−→[out(x)].
This rule models instance rid of role i outputting a message
to the attacker. We split this rule into two parts:
[outi(rid, x)]
[λout(rid,x)]
−−−−−−−→[],
(4)
[]
[λout(rid,x)]
−−−−−−−→[out(x)],
(5)
where the ﬁrst rule belongs to role i and the second to the
environment. We label both rules with a new action fact
λout(rid, x), which uniquely identiﬁes the original I/O rule
and has as parameters all variables occurring in it. We call
this fact a synchronization label, as we later use it for synchro-
nizing the two parts to recover the original rule’s behavior.
We similarly split all rules in Rio, yielding two sets Ri
io and
Re
io belonging to the protocol role i and to the environment.
The components for each protocol role i and for the
environment are then deﬁned as follows.
Ri
role = R′
i ⊎Ri
io
Re
env = R−
env ⊎Re
io.
(6)
Note that these two rule sets operate on pairwise disjoint
sets of facts, namely over the signatures Σi
role and Σenv,
respectively. Hence they can interact with each other only
by synchronizing the split I/O rules.
Example 7 (Component for Difﬁe-Hellman). The MSR
system RAlice
role
for Alice’s role contains the two protocol
rules in R′
Alice from Example 6, the output rule (4) described
above, and similar rules for inputs and freshness generation.
In addition, it contains the protocol part of the split setup
rule for Alice’s role from Example 2, i.e.
[]
[λAlice(rid,A,kA,B,pkB)]
−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−→[SetupAlice(rid, A, kA, B, pkB)].
The traces of the recomposition of all roles with the
environment are included in the traces of the interface
model. We deﬁne two kinds of parallel compositions
on LTSs (induced here by the MSR systems’ transition
semantics). We give the intuition here and refer the reader
to Appendix B for the formal deﬁnitions. The (indexed)
parallel composition ||| interleaves the transitions of a family
of component systems without communication. The (binary)
parallel composition ∥Λ synchronizes transitions with labels
from the set Λ, resulting in a transition labeled [], and
interleaves all other transitions. We then show:
Lemma 2 (Decomposition). Let Ri
role(rid) be the MSR
system Ri
role for a ﬁxed thread id rid. Then
(|||i,ridRi
role(rid)) ∥Λ Re
env ≼Rintf,
where Λ = S
i{aθ | ∃l, r. l
a
−→r ∈Ri
io ∧range(θ) ⊆M}
consists of all ground instances of synchronization labels.
3.3. Transformation to I/O speciﬁcations
Finally, we extract an I/O speciﬁcation ψi from each
role i’s MSR system Ri
role, which serves as the speciﬁcation
for the role’s implementation at the code level. ψi is
parameterized by the thread identiﬁer rid, and it associates
a token with the starting place p of the predicate Pi:
ψi(rid) = ∃p. token(p) ⋆Pi(p, rid, []).
The predicate Pi(p, rid, S)’s parameters are a place p, a
thread identiﬁer rid, and a state S of the MSR system Ri
role
(i.e., a multiset of ground facts). Note that ψi invokes Pi with
the initial state, i.e., the empty multiset [] (see Section 2.1).
It is deﬁned co-recursively as the separating conjunction over
the formulas φR, one for each rewrite rule R ∈Ri
role:
Pi(p, rid, S) = ⋆R∈Ri
role φR(p, rid, S).
φR encodes an application of the rewrite rule R to
the model state S. It contains an I/O or internal permis-
sion R(p, . . . , p′), which an implementation must hold in
order to execute the program part implementing R. φR co-
recursively calls Pi(p′, rid, S′) with the target place p′ of
R and the updated state S′. We deﬁne the formulas φR
separately for protocol rules in R′
i and for I/O rules in Ri
io.
Consider a protocol rule R
=
l
a
−→
r
∈
R′
i
with variables x. We associate the internal permission
R(p, x, l′, a′, r′, p′) to R, and deﬁne φR(p, rid, S) by
φR(p, rid, S) = ∀x, l′, a′, r′.
M(l′, s) ∧l′ =E l ∧a′ =E a ∧r′ =E r ∧ΦR(x)
=⇒∃p′. R(p, x, l′, a′, r′, p′) ⋆Pi(p′, rid, U(l′, r′, S))
where M(l′, S) = (l′ ∩m Flin ⊆m S) ∧(set(l′) ∩Fper ⊆
set(S)), U(l′, r′, S) = S\m(l′∩mFlin)∪m r′, and ΦR is the
6
1082
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 14,2025 at 13:39:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

conjunction of all (boolean combinations of) equality checks
(mod E) that the rule R performs using a combination of ac-
tion facts in a and associated restrictions (cf. Section 3.1.2).
This formula speciﬁes that, for any instantiation (mod E)
l′, a′, r′ of the facts in the rule, if the matching condition
M(l′, S) and the equational formula ΦR are satisﬁed, then
we have an internal permission R to execute the rule’s
implementation. This yields an updated state U(l′, r′, S), on
which Pi is co-recursively applied to produce the permissions
for the rest of the execution. The formula ΦR thus enforces
that the implementation performs the explicit equality checks
on messages speciﬁed in the rule R (see also Section 4.3.4).
We deﬁne similar formulas for all I/O rules. For output
rules of the form RG = [Gi(rid, x)]
[λG(rid,x)]
−−−−−−−→[] ∈Ri
io,
we deﬁne the formula
φRG(p, rid, S) = ∀x. Gi(rid, x) ∈m S
=⇒∃p′. RG(p, rid, x, p′) ⋆Pi(p′, rid, S \m [Gi(rid, x)])),
which grants the I/O permission RG(p, rid, x, p′) for any
rid and terms x for which the fact Gi(rid, x) exists in S. Pi
is called co-recursively with the target place of the permission
and the updated state, where Gi(rid, x) is removed.
For input rules RF = []
[λF (rid,z)]
−−−−−−−→[Fi(rid, z)] ∈Ri
io,
we deﬁne the formula
φRF (p, rid, S) =
∃p′, z. RF(p, rid, z, p′) ⋆Pi(p′, rid, S ∪m [Fi(rid, z)])),
which grants the I/O permission RF(p, rid, z, p′) to read
inputs z for any rid. Note that the input variables z
are existentially quantiﬁed (cf. Section 2.2) and the fact
Fi(rid, z) is added to the state in the co-recursive call to Pi.
Example 8 (I/O speciﬁcation for Difﬁe-Hellman). Continu-
ing Examples 6 and 7, the component system is translated
into an I/O speciﬁcation that features the following conjunct
corresponding to the rule for the second step of Alice’s role:
φAlice2(p, rid, S) = ∀init, x, Y, l′, a′, r′.
M(l′, S) ∧
l′ =E {|Step1
Alice(init, x), inAlice(rid, sign(⟨0, B, A, gx, Y ⟩, kB))|} ∧
a′ =E {|Secret(Y x)|} ∧
r′ =E {|Step2
Alice(init, x, Y ), outAlice(rid, sign(⟨1, A, B, Y, gx⟩, kA))|} ∧
=⇒∃p′. Alice2(p, init, x, Y, l′, a′, r′, p′)⋆Pi(p′, rid, U(l′, r′, S)).
Namely, the permission to execute this step is granted,
provided S contains instantiations of the previous state fact
and the correct input fact, and that S is updated by replacing
them with the new state and output facts. Recall that init
abbreviates rid, A, kA, B, pkB.
The construction of ψi from Ri
role can be seen as an
instance of the method presented in [19] and by the soundness
result from that paper, we get the following trace inclusion.
Theorem 1 ([19]). For all MSR systems Ri
role(rid), where
the fresh name rid instantiates the thread id in all facts,
π(ψi(rid)) ≼Ri
role(rid),
where π = πint ◦πext relabels (the LTS induced by) ψi(rid).
Here, πint and πext are the identity functions except on the
following labels:
πint(R(x, l′, a′, r′)) = a′
for R ∈R′
i
πext(F(rid, x)) = [λF (rid, x)]
for F ∈Ri
io.
4. Veriﬁed protocol implementations
The implementation step consists of providing the code
ci(rid) implementing each role i and proving that it satisﬁes
its I/O speciﬁcation ψi(rid). The challenge here is bridging
the abstraction gap between the message terms in the I/O
speciﬁcations ψi(rid) and the bytestring messages manipu-
lated by the code. In Section 4.1, we present an extension of
the code veriﬁers’ semantics of Hoare triples to accommodate
such abstractions. In Section 4.2, we explain how we
concretely relate bytestrings to terms. Finally, in Section 4.3,
we show how we verify the roles’ I/O speciﬁcations based
on appropriate I/O and cryptographic library speciﬁcations.
4.1. Code veriﬁcation with abstraction
In Penninckx et al.’s program logic [28], the statement
that a program c satisﬁes an I/O speciﬁcation φ is expressed
as the Hoare triple
{φ} c {true},
(7)
with the I/O speciﬁcation φ in the precondition and the post-
condition true. We assume that the program c has an LTS
semantics C given by the programming language’s opera-
tional semantics, where the labels represent the program’s
I/O (and internal) operations and the program’s traces consist
of sequences of such labels. We leave the exact semantics
unspeciﬁed here, to keep our formulation generic with respect
to the programming language used. The semantics of the
Hoare triple (7) implies that the program c’s traces are
included in the traces of φ, i.e. C ≼φ.
To bridge the gap between message terms and bytestring
messages, we extend Penninckx et al.’s approach by intro-
ducing an abstraction or relabeling function α between the
implementation’s transition labels and the I/O speciﬁcation’s
transition labels. For example, α may map a concrete label
inc(l) to an abstract version ina(s), where l is a list
implementation and s is the mathematical set of l’s elements.
We also extend the soundness assumption on the code veriﬁer
accordingly.
Assumption 1 (Veriﬁer assumption).
⊢α {φ} c {true} =⇒α(C) ≼φ.
This means that a successful veriﬁcation implies that
the program traces, abstracted under α, are included in the
I/O speciﬁcation φ’s traces. In Appendix C, we sketch a
semantics for Hoare triples that entails this trace inclusion.
To ensure this extension’s soundness, we require that
the I/O operations’ contracts are consistent with α, i.e., they
imply a correct mapping of transition labels under α. More
7
1083
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 14,2025 at 13:39:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

precisely, suppose the speciﬁcation of such an operation op
induces a concrete transition label opc(a), where a are op’s
inputs and outputs, and the I/O permission in the precondition
induces the abstract transition label opa(b). Then we deﬁne
α as lifting from an (overloaded) function α that maps
concrete parameter types to abstract ones, i.e., α(opc(a)) =
opa(α(a)). We therefore require that b = α(a) follows from
op’s precondition (for arguments) and postcondition (for
return values). Moreover, we allow α to be a partial function,
in which case the speciﬁcation must also imply that the
concrete arguments are in its domain.
Application to role veriﬁcation. We now apply this idea to
the veriﬁcation of the protocol’s role implementations (using
Gobra in our case study). That is, we wish to establish
⊢α {ψi(rid)} ci(rid) {true}
(8)
for a suitable α. An obvious possibility would be to deﬁne
an abstraction function α : B⋆→M from bytestrings to
messages and then lift it to trace labels. For example, a
concrete inc(rid, b) would be abstracted to α(inc(rid, b)) =
ina(rid, α(b)). However, this mapping assumes that each
bytestring corresponds to exactly one term, and consequently
that every bytestring can be uniquely parsed as a term. To
minimize our assumptions, however, we do not a priori want
to exclude collisions between bytestrings, i.e., we allow a
bytestring to have several term interpretations.
In Section 4.2, we therefore relate bytestrings and terms
using a concretization function γ : M →B⋆. Since a
bytestring may be related to several terms, we cannot deﬁne
a function α mapping concrete labels to abstract I/O labels.
Our solution is based on adding ghost term parameters to the
I/O operations in the implementation code. For example, the
operation receiving a bytestring b gets an additional ghost
return value term m with b = γ(m) and the corresponding
transition label is inc(rid, (b, m)). These ghost terms aid
veriﬁcation (see Section 4.3), but are not present in the
executable code. We instantiate α to the function π′
ext that
removes the bytestrings from the concrete I/O operation’s
labels and keeps only the ghost terms used for the reasoning.
For instance, π′
ext(inc(rid, (b, m))) = ina(rid, m). This
function is deﬁned only for b = γ(m), which is guaranteed
by the receive operation’s contract (cf. Figure 2).
Our proposed method enables us to verify that pre-
existing real-world code satisﬁes I/O speciﬁcations produced
from abstract Tamarin models (see Section 6).
4.2. Relating terms and bytestrings
In Tamarin’s MSR semantics, messages in M are ground
terms. We model the concrete messages and the operations
on them as bytestring algebras deﬁned as Σ-algebras B with
the set of bytestrings B⋆as the carrier set. To relate terms to
bytestrings, we use a surjective Σ-algebra homomorphism γ :
M →B, which maps (fresh and public) names to bytestrings
and the signature’s symbols to functions on bytestrings:
γ(n) = nB
for n ∈N
γ(f(t1, . . . , tk)) = f B(γ(t1), . . . , γ(tk))
for f ∈Σk
ensures seq(ciph) = encB(seq(key), seq(msg))
func encrypt(key, msg []byte) (ciph []byte)
ensures ok =⇒seq(c) = encB(seq(k), seq(m))
func decrypt(k, c []byte) (m []byte, ok bool)
requires token(?p1) && in(p1,?m,?p2)
ensures
ok =⇒token(p2) && seq(b) = γ(m)
ensures !ok =⇒token(p1) && in(p1,m,p2)
func receive() (b []byte,ghost m term,ok bool)
Figure 2. Simpliﬁed speciﬁcations for encryption, decryption, and receive.
The function seq abstracts an in-memory byte array to B. We omit Gobra’s
memory annotations needed to reason about heap data structures and
conditions on the size of bytestrings.
With the requirement that γ is surjective, we avoid junk
bytestrings that do not represent any term (i.e., the algebra
B is term-generated). This is without loss of generality as
there are countably inﬁnitely many public names that can
be mapped to potential junk bytestrings.
Note that Σ-algebra homomorphisms are required to
preserve equalities. For example, a symbolic equality
dec(k, enc(k, m)) =E m on terms implies the equality
decB(key, encB(key, msg)) = msg
on bytestrings. In what follows, we will use the bytestring
algebra’s functions in our cryptographic library’s speciﬁca-
tion. This enables us to reason about message parsing and
construction.
4.3. Verifying the I/O speciﬁcation
The veriﬁcation of the I/O speciﬁcation generally follows
the same approach as in previous work [28], [19]. Every I/O
operation performed by the code requires that a correspond-
ing I/O permission is held. The required I/O permissions
must be obtained from the I/O speciﬁcation. However, our
introduction of abstraction makes reasoning about what is
sent and, in particular, received more challenging.
4.3.1. Sending and receiving messages. For a sent pair of
a bytestring and a ghost message (in M), we must verify that
the I/O speciﬁcation permits sending the message. Similarly,
for a received pair of a bytestring and a ghost message, we
must verify that the received message matches a term in the
I/O speciﬁcation, describing the expected protocol message.
We refer to such terms as patterns. In Example 8, there is
a single pattern, namely sign(⟨0, B, A, gx, Y ⟩, kB), where
the unconstrained Y is a variable and all other entities are
constrained by the fact Step1
Alice(init, x).
Verifying that the I/O speciﬁcation permits sending
a message boils down to verifying that the bytestring
γ(m) for a permitted message m was constructed and
then sent. This becomes straightforward by equipping the
cryptographic library with suitable speciﬁcations. Consider
the simpliﬁed speciﬁcation of an encryption function shown
in Figure 2. The function seq abstracts an in-memory
byte array into a mathematical sequence of bytes, i.e., an
element of B⋆. Due to the speciﬁcation and the surjectivity
8
1084
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 14,2025 at 13:39:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

1 // seq(key) = γ(k) holds
2 ciph, c, ok := receive(); if !ok {return}
3 assert seq(ciph) = γ(c)
4 msg, ok := decrypt(key, ciph); if !ok {return}
5 assert ∃u. seq(msg) = γ(u)
6
&& seq(ciph) = γ(enc(k, u))
7 PaR1(m, ...) // using the pattern requirement
8 assert ∃w. c =E enc(k, w) && seq(msg) = γ(w)
Figure 3. Reasoning about receiving and parsing a ciphertext.
req token(p) && PAnn(p,r,S) && Step1
Ann(k)∈mS
req ∃x. γ(enc(k,x)) = γ(m)
ens token(p) && PAnn(p,r,S) && ∃x′. m =E enc(k,x′)
ghost func PaR1(m,p,r,S,k)
Figure 4. Ghost function for the pattern requirement of Example 9. There
is the single pattern enc(k, x), where k is a constant and x is a variable.
of γ, the result of encrypt(key, msg) is equal to
γ(enc(mkey, mmsg)) for some messages mkey and mmsg,
where γ(mkey) = seq(key) and γ(mmsg) = seq(msg).
To verify the construction of an entire message, we combine
the information of all such calls.
Verifying that a message m returned by receive()
(cf. Figure 2) matches a pattern t is more involved. Using
our cryptographic library’s speciﬁcations, we can verify that
γ(m) is equal to γ(tσ), where the substitution σ instantiates
the variables of t with messages. Unfortunately, this does
not entail that the received message m matches the pattern t.
The function γ may have collisions and hence γ(m) may
equal γ(tσ), while m and tσ differ. We address this issue
by requiring that instances of the I/O speciﬁcation’s patterns
do not collide with other bytestrings; we discuss below how
we justify this requirement.
Deﬁnition 1. The pattern requirement for a pattern t ∈T
is deﬁned by
γ(tσ) = γ(m) =⇒∃σ′. m =E tσ′.
(PaR(t))
This requirement states that if messages m and tσ
coincide under γ, then m must match the pattern t (mod E)
with some substitution σ′, which may differ from σ.
We need the pattern requirement for all patterns of
the I/O speciﬁcation. For code veriﬁcation, we express the
pattern requirement as a ghost function whose pre- and
postcondition are the left-hand and right-hand side of the
pattern requirement, for each pattern respectively. To apply
the pattern requirement, the corresponding ghost function is
called in the code. In Sections 4.3.2 and 4.3.3, we will explain
how to prove the pattern requirement for a given pattern t.
Example 9 (Checking a ciphertext). Consider a simple
protocol where a role Ann expects a message matching
the pattern enc(k, x), where k is a pre-shared key. We
use the fact Step1
Ann(k) to bind k in the model state.
Figure 3 shows part of an implementation. The variable key
stores the pre-shared key, expressed as seq(key) = γ(k).
After successfully receiving a bytestring ciph with a
message c, seq(ciph) = γ(c) holds due to receive’s
speciﬁcation (cf. Figure 2). Next, the code decrypts ciph.
If successful, ciph equals the bytestring γ(enc(k,u))
for some message u with seq(msg) = γ(u) (lines 5–6)
by decrypt’s postcondition (cf. Figure 2) and γ being
a surjective homomorphism. Furthermore, we know that
γ(enc(k,u)) equals γ(c), but not yet that the received
message c matches the pattern enc(k, x) (line 8). For this, we
apply the pattern requirement by calling the ghost function
PaR1 (cf. Figure 4). The constant k of the pattern enc(k, x)
is passed as an argument to the call, and related to the
state facts of the I/O speciﬁcation via the ghost function’s
precondition (with Step1
Ann(k)∈mS).
4.3.2. Deriving the pattern requirement. The pattern re-
quirement for a given pattern t can be derived from two
more basic properties. We deﬁne these properties here and
prove this implication. In Section 4.3.3, we will discuss
assumptions and justiﬁcations regarding these properties.
The ﬁrst property is image disjointness, which has two
parts: (i) the images of (public and fresh) names under γ are
pairwise disjoint and (ii) the image of any function f B for
f ∈Σ neither collides with the image of any other function
gB, for g ∈Σ, nor with the image of names under γ.
Deﬁnition 2 (Image disjointness). Image disjointness holds
under the following two conditions:
(i) γ is injective on the set of names N and
(ii) for all f, g ∈Σ such that f ̸= g,
img(f B) ∩(img(gB) ∪γ(N)) = ∅.
(IDf,g)
The second property is pattern injectivity for a pattern t.
This constitutes a much weaker form of standard injectivity.
It is required to hold only for subterms t′ ⊑t and where,
again, equality is guaranteed only modulo a substitution σ′.
Deﬁnition 3 (Pattern injectivity). Pattern injectivity holds
for a pattern t if, for all f ∈Σ occurring in t,
f(t′
1, ..., t′
k) ⊑t ∧f B(γ(t′
1σ), ..., γ(t′
kσ)) = f B(b1, ..., bk)
=⇒∃σ′. b1 = γ(t′
1σ′) ∧... ∧bk = γ(t′
kσ′).
(PaIf(t))
Proposition 1. Given a linear pattern t (where every
variable occurs only once), image disjointness and pattern
injectivity for t imply the pattern requirement for t.
Proof. We prove the proposition’s statement for all t′ ⊑t
by induction on t′.
We split non-linear patterns into multiple linear ones. For
instance, the non-linear pattern t = ⟨x, hash(x)⟩can be split
into t1 = ⟨x, _⟩and t2 = ⟨_, hash(x)⟩(where _ matches
any term). Conceptually, we then ﬁrst match a given term
⟨u, hash(u)⟩against t1, which binds x to u, and then against
⟨_, hash(u)⟩= t2[x 7→u]. This is equivalent to matching
against t. This turned out to be simpler to work with than a
single linearized pattern with additional equality constraints.
9
1085
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 14,2025 at 13:39:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

4.3.3. Assumptions and proof obligations. We discuss
assumptions and proof obligations regarding image disjoint-
ness and pattern injectivity. In doing so, we distinguish
cryptographic operations from formats.
Since we are working in a symbolic (Dolev-Yao) model,
which assumes perfect cryptography, we maintain this as-
sumption for cryptographic operations at the bytestring level
in the following form.
Assumption 2 (Cryptographic operations). We assume that
(i) γ is injective on the set of names N,
(ii) (IDf,g) holds for cryptographic f ∈Σ and all g ∈Σ,
(iii) (PaIf(t)) holds for all protocol patterns t and all cryp-
tographic f ∈Σ occurring in t.
We justify these assumptions by noting that we can expect
collisions violating these assumptions to occur only with
negligible probability in good cryptographic libraries. Also
recall that pattern injectivity is a much weaker requirement
than standard injectivity.
The situation is different for formats (cf. Section 3.1.2).
We can expect that the formats of a well-designed protocol
are unambiguously parseable (i.e., injective and hence pattern-
injective) and mutually disjoint (i.e., image disjoint). We
therefore require that these properties are proved for formats,
e.g., using the techniques proposed in [29], [30].
Remark. An obvious way to achieve image disjointness and
pattern injectiveness is to tag each construct of the bytestring
algebra with a different bytestring. This approach is followed,
e.g., in [19] but it is unrealistic for real protocols.
Alternatively, image disjointness holds if different opera-
tions result in differently sized bytestrings. For operations
with varying output sizes, such as stream encryption, this
may require restricting the allowed argument sizes in the
implementation. In some cases, this approach may allow us
to prove image disjointness even for some cryptographic
operations. Indeed, we do this for a pre-existing implementa-
tion of the WireGuard protocol, which does not use tagging.
However, this approach also has its limitations; for example,
AES-256 or SHA-256 have the same output size.
4.3.4. Proving term equalities. Obligations to prove term
equalities during code veriﬁcation arise from equality con-
straints in the I/O speciﬁcation. However, while the code
can check that an equality holds on the bytestring level (e.g.,
γ(x) = γ(hash(z))), this does not in general imply the pre-
scribed term equality (e.g., x =E hash(z)). Following [31],
[32], [33], [34], we can reasonably assume that collisions
violating this implication do not occur (with overwhelming
probability) in actual protocol executions and thus prove
the speciﬁcation under the condition that bytestring equality
implies term equality for the two concrete bytestrings at
hand (e.g., γ(x) = γ(hash(z)) =⇒x =E hash(z)). We call
this a collision-freedom assumption for a given equation.
4.3.5. Summary. The veriﬁcation of the role implementa-
tions, i.e., the Hoare triples ⊢π′
ext {ψi(rid)} ci(rid) {true},
relies on the following assumptions:
1) contracts for the I/O and cryptographic libraries, where
the former’s operations are consistent with π′
ext;
2) the pattern requirement for each pattern t occurring in
the I/O speciﬁcation; and
3) collision-freedom for all equalities ΦR occurring in the
I/O speciﬁcation.
We suggest to also prove the pattern requirement for a given
pattern t whenever possible, e.g., by showing image disjoint-
ness and pattern injectivity (at least) for formats and assuming
them for the cryptographic operations (Assumption 2).
5. Concrete environment and overall soundness
We now derive an overall soundness result for our
approach, which relates the abstract Tamarin model to the
concrete protocol implementation.
5.1. Concrete environment
To formulate such a result, we must ﬁrst deﬁne a
concrete environment model E, including a concrete attacker,
which can interact with the roles’ implementations. These
implementations communicate with the environment using
I/O library functions, which include non-ghost and ghost
parameters: they send and receive both bytestrings (used
by the program) and ghost terms (used for the reasoning),
related by γ. The ghost parameters should be reﬂected in E’s
interface, i.e., its synchronization labels. Moreover, to ﬁt into
an overall soundness result, Emust be trace-included in Re
env.
Hence, the concrete attacker must not be more powerful than
the Dolev-Yao attacker, i.e., we must prevent attacks at the
bytestring level such as exploiting collisions.
To achieve this, we construct the concrete environment
from the term-level environment Re
env by changing only
its interface with the protocol. Concretely, we rename and
extend every synchronization label [λF (rid, x)] of (the LTS
induced by) Re
env to the label F(rid, γ(x), x) in E and we
keep the labels of Re
env’s internal actions. Note that applying
the relabeling πext ◦π′
ext to E recovers Re
env’s original labels.
Hence, we record the following property.
Proposition 2. πext(π′
ext(E)) ≼Re
env.
5.2. Overall soundness result
Our goal now is to show that any trace property proved
for the Tamarin model is preserved in the concrete system
 |||i,rid πint(Ci(rid))

∥Λ′ E,
which is composed of the veriﬁed programs’ LTSs Ci and
the concrete environment E, where the programs’ internal
operations are mapped back to their action fact arguments and
Λ′ = (πext ◦π′
ext)−1(Λ) synchronizes I/O permissions that
also include bytestrings beside terms. Note that our soundness
result assumes that the role implementations are already
veriﬁed and that the veriﬁer assumption (Assumption 1) holds.
The veriﬁcation of the role implementations themselves and
the related assumptions are discussed in Section 4.
10
1086
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 14,2025 at 13:39:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

R
Rintf
∥Λ
 |||i,rid Ri
role(rid)

Re
env
π
 ψi(rid)

∥Λ

|||i,rid π
 π′
ext(Ci(rid))

πext
 π′
ext(E)

∥Λ′
|||i,rid πint
 Ci(rid)

E
≼′
≼
≼
≼
≼
≼
(Lemma 1)
(Lemma 2)
(Theorem 1)
(Assumption 1)
(Prop. 2)
Figure 5. Overview of soundness proof, where π and Λ′ are deﬁned by
π = πint ◦πext and Λ′ = (πext ◦π′
ext)−1(Λ).
Theorem 2 (Soundness). Suppose Assumption 1 holds and
that we have veriﬁed, for each role i, the Hoare triple ⊢π′
ext
{ψi(rid)} ci(rid) {true}. Then
(|||i,rid πint(Ci(rid))) ∥Λ′ E ≼t R.
Proof. We decompose the proof into a series of trace
inclusions. Figure 5 gives an overview of the proof.
The ﬁrst trace inclusion is
 |||i,rid πint(Ci(rid))

∥Λ′ E
≼(|||i,rid π(π′
ext(Ci(rid)))) ∥Λ πext(π′
ext(E)),
(9)
where the ﬁrst line is obtained from the second by pushing
the relabeling πext ◦π′
ext into the parallel composition, thus
changing the set of synchronizing labels from Λ to Λ′. Next,
we deduce
π(π′
ext(Ci(rid))) ≼Ri
role(rid)
(10)
from Theorem 1 and from the combination of Assumption 1
and the assumption ⊢π′
ext {ψi(rid)} ci(rid) {true}. We then
leverage a general composition theorem [19, Theorem 2.3]
that implies that trace inclusion is compositional for a large
class of composition operators including ||| and ∥Λ. We apply
this to the trace inclusion (10) and the one from Proposition 2
to derive the trace inclusion
(|||i,rid π(π′
ext(Ci(rid)))) ∥Λ πext(π′
ext(E))
≼(|||i,rid Ri
role(rid)) ∥Λ Re
env.
(11)
Our result follows by combining the trace inclusions (9)
and (11) with Lemmas 1 and 2 and the relation inclusions
≼⊆≼′ ⊆≼t from Section 2.
Corollary 1 (Property preservation). Any trace property Φ
that holds for R also holds for (|||i,rid πint(Ci(rid))) ∥Λ′ E.
Example 10 (Secrecy for Difﬁe-Hellman). We have veriﬁed
the secrecy of and agreement on the exchanged key for
the Tamarin protocol model from Example 2. The former
is expressed as the requirement that in all possible traces of
the system, the attacker never learns a value k for which a
Secret(k) action occurs in the trace. We then implemented
both roles by programs, and proved they satisfy their I/O
speciﬁcations (Example 8). Our soundness result and its
corollary guarantee that the composed system also satisﬁes
key secrecy and authentication.
6. Application and WireGuard case study
To provide evidence that our approach to verifying
cryptographic protocol implementations is general, powerful,
and scales to complex real-world protocols, we use it to verify
our Difﬁe-Hellman running example and the WireGuard
protocol. Both case studies are available open-source [21].
6.1. Applying our approach
The application of our approach involves three steps:
1) Protocol model speciﬁcation and veriﬁcation in Tamarin.
Protocol models must satisfy our mild format restrictions
(Section 3.1). Existing protocol models may require
minor syntactic modiﬁcations. Verify the desired trace
properties such as secrecy and authentication.
2) Generation of the roles’ I/O speciﬁcations. Our tool
automatically generates each protocol role’s I/O spec-
iﬁcation along with deﬁnitions of types and internal
operations. It accepts all protocol models satisfying our
format assumptions. The tool currently supports Gobra
(for Go) and VeriFast (for Java).
3) Role implementation and veriﬁcation. Verify an existing
or new role implementation against its I/O speciﬁcation.
This relies on user-provided (reusable) contracts for the
I/O and cryptographic libraries used and on proofs of
the relevant instances of the pattern requirement (e.g.,
using Assumption 2 and Proposition 1).
By Corollary 1 (and Assumption 1), all properties proven
for the Tamarin model are inherited by the implementation.
For our Difﬁe-Hellman example, we have veriﬁed a Go
implementation (using Gobra) and a Java implementation (us-
ing VeriFast) against their generated speciﬁcations. These two
implementations are interoperable and exchange messages
via UDP. We have also produced a faulty implementation
that sends x instead of gx as the ﬁrst message and for which
veriﬁcation fails because the I/O permissions do not permit
sending this payload.
6.2. The WireGuard key exchange
WireGuard is an open VPN (Virtual Private Network)
system that is widely deployed on various platforms and
integrated into the Linux kernel. Its core is the WireGuard
cryptographic protocol.
The WireGuard protocol mainly consists of a handshake,
where two agents establish secret session keys and
authenticate each other, and a transport phase, where they
use these keys to set up a secure channel for message
transport. We give an overview of the protocol in Figure 6.
The complete protocol additionally features denial of service
(DoS) protection mechanisms, which we omit.
11
1087
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 14,2025 at 13:39:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

// handshake phase
A →B :
⟨1, sidI, gekI, cpkI, cts, mac1I, mac2I⟩
B →A :
⟨2, sidR, sidI, gekR, cempty, mac1R, mac2R⟩
// transport phase
A →B :
⟨4, sidR, 0, aead(kIR, 0, p0,′′ )⟩
B →A :
⟨4, sidI, 0, aead(kRI , 0, p′
0,′′ )⟩
A →B :
⟨4, sidR, 1, aead(kIR, 1, p1,′′ )⟩
. . .
Figure 6. The WireGuard protocol.
The protocol involves two roles, the initiator (Alice) and
the responder (Bob), each with long-term private and public
keys. It is assumed that Alice and Bob know each other’s
public keys pkI and pkR in advance. They may optionally use
a pre-shared secret. The protocol relies on an authenticated
encryption with associated data (AEAD) construction aead,
and hash and key derivation functions. The exact algorithms
used are irrelevant for our presentation. All protocol messages
contain a tag: 1 and 2 for handshake messages, 3 for the
optional DoS prevention messages (not shown), and 4 for
transport messages. They also contain randomly generated
unique session identiﬁers sidI or sidR (for each role).
The handshake phase comprises two messages. Alice and
Bob generate fresh ephemeral Difﬁe-Hellman keys ekI, ekR,
and exchange the associated public keys gekI, gekR. They
also exchange ciphertexts cpkI, cts, and cempty, which respec-
tively encrypt Alice’s public key, a timestamp, and the empty
string, with keys derived from both long term and ephemeral
secrets. The messages also contain message authentication
codes (MACs) for the DoS protection mode, not described
here. At the end of the handshake, both agents compute
two symmetric keys kIR and kRI . The detailed message
construction and key computation is given in Appendix D.
These two keys are afterwards used to encrypt messages
in the transport phase: kIR for messages from initiator to
responder and kRI for the other direction. Alice and Bob
both keep two counters nIR and nRI , counting the number of
messages sent in each direction. When Alice sends a message,
she encrypts it with kIR, using the current value of nIR as
the AEAD nonce, and increments nIR. Thus, no confusion is
possible regarding the order of messages. The use of different
keys and counters allows messages to be sent independently
in each direction, without requiring strict alternation.
Note that the protocol mandates that Alice sends the ﬁrst
transport message. The reason is that it is used by Bob to con-
ﬁrm she has received his key. In contrast, Alice conﬁrms this
for Bob when she receives the second handshake message.
6.3. Tamarin model
We model the WireGuard protocol in Tamarin as a MSR
system satisfying the assumptions from Section 3.1. Our
model features rules for each of the two roles’ behavior, as
well as environment rules modeling the initial long-term key
distribution. The environment may spawn any number of
instances of each role, i.e., an unbounded number of sessions
running in parallel, between the same or different agents.
Table 1. PROPERTIES VERIFIED FOR THE WIREGUARD CASE STUDY. BY
COROLLARY 1, THE CODE INHERITS THE PROTOCOL’S PROPERTIES.
Level
Veriﬁed properties
Protocol
Agreement on the keys, forward secrecy
Code
Memory safety, conformance with generated I/O spec
Note that we not only model the handshake and
ﬁrst transport message, after which the key exchange is
concluded, but also the loop that follows where agents
may exchange any number of transport messages, in any
order, using the computed keys. Verifying such unbounded
loops is challenging for automated tools, and often leads
to non-termination. For this reason, they are usually not
modeled in their full generality. However, the presence
of the loop in the implementation required its inclusion
in the model as well, so that the implementation adheres
to the model’s behavior. We had to manually write three
lemmas and an oracle (a heuristic for Tamarin’s proof
search) to help the tool terminate. Tamarin can then prove
these lemmas and verify the model automatically.
We formulate and prove in Tamarin trace properties
expressing authentication (see Table 1). More precisely, we
show that, after the ﬁrst transport message, the participants
mutually agree on the resulting keys: if Alice believes
she has exchanged kIR and kRI with Bob, then Bob also
believes so, and conversely. Moreover, we prove the forward
secrecy of the keys kIR and kRI : they remain secret from
the attacker, provided neither Alice nor Bob’s long-term
secrets were corrupted before the end of the key exchange.
The Tamarin ﬁle consists of about 250 lines of MSR rules,
and 100 lines of lemmas and properties. It is veriﬁed
automatically by Tamarin in about 3 minutes.
6.4. Implementation and code veriﬁcation
We separately veriﬁed the initiator and responder code of
the ofﬁcial Go implementation of WireGuard [35] in Gobra.
We ﬁrst proved memory safety, which is independent of our
approach, but a required initial step in tools like Gobra and
VeriFast. We then veriﬁed each role implementation against
its I/O speciﬁcation, which we generated with our tool from
the WireGuard Tamarin model.
We annotated the code
with speciﬁcations, namely pre- and postconditions and loop
invariants, and proof annotations, namely assertions, lemma
calls, and predicate unfolding commands. The code can be
compiled, since the annotations appear inside comments.
Table 1 summarizes all properties we proved.
Changes to the implementation. We modiﬁed the ofﬁcial
Go implementation in three ways. First, we removed features
not included in our Tamarin model, namely DDoS protection.
Second, we made changes to simplify proving memory
safety. For this, we removed metrics and load balancing,
which requires complex concurrency reasoning currently not
supported by Gobra. Lastly, we performed changes related
to our approach. Namely, we wrote stubs for cryptographic
and network operations and equipped them with trusted spec-
iﬁcations (cf. Section 4.3) and adapted the code accordingly.
12
1088
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 14,2025 at 13:39:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Our veriﬁed implementation is interoperable with the ofﬁ-
cial implementation and can delegate OS trafﬁc over a VPN.
Veriﬁed components. We veriﬁed both the handshake and
transport phase for both roles. These components are respon-
sible for all I/O operations of the implementation. We did not
verify the setup code for network sockets and cryptographic
keys. The stubs for cryptographic and network operations
are trusted by assumption and thus also not veriﬁed.
I/O speciﬁcation. In addition to the I/O speciﬁcations
generated by our tool, we declared the bytestring algebra
operations and the homomorphism γ.
Our veriﬁcation of the I/O speciﬁcation is standard. To
verify a call to an I/O operation or an internal operation, we
extract the corresponding I/O permission from the predicate
Pi(p, rid, S). This requires facts about the model state S.
For instance, to send a bytestring b, there must exist a term t
with γ(t) = b such that outi(rid, t) ∈S. We verify such
facts by relating the program state to the model state S.
Tool expertise requirements. Performing the code-level
veriﬁcation requires a basic understanding of separation logic
and tool-speciﬁc knowledge to complete the memory-safety
proof (as is necessary when verifying any heap-manipulating
program). Justifying each of the program’s I/O operations by
relating them to an I/O permission of the I/O speciﬁcation
is mostly straightforward.
Pattern
requirement.
Each
of
the
protocol’s
three
non-linear patterns induces two instances of the pattern
requirement, realized as lemma functions (cf. Figure 4).
We proved the pattern requirement instances using Propo-
sition 1 and Assumption 2 by showing that all formats
are (i) image-disjoint with each other and names and (ii)
pattern-injective. Point (i) holds, since all formats start with
a different constant and their lengths differ from the lengths
of bytestrings representing names. Formats are also injective
and hence satisfy (ii), as the arguments of all formats appear
at ﬁxed offsets in the bytestring representation.
Statistics. Our WireGuard implementation consists of
608 lines of veriﬁed Go code, excluding library stubs.
Speciﬁcations and proof annotations make up 3936 lines of
code, 1241 (32%) of which are generated by our tool. We
required 87 lines of code to declare the term and bytestring
algebras and the axioms about γ. The veriﬁcation runtime
is about 148 and 138 seconds for the initiator and responder,
respectively. This case study demonstrates that our approach
is applicable to pre-existing real-world security protocols
with implementations of considerable size.
The smaller Difﬁe-Hellman implementations consist of
106 lines of veriﬁed Go code and 113 lines of veriﬁed Java
code (both excluding library stubs). The Go and Java code
require 1015 and 1022 lines of speciﬁcation of which 623
(61%) and 780 (76%) are generated by our tool, respectively.
7. Related work
We compare our work with different kinds of approaches
to formally verifying protocol implementations. We focus
on symbolic approaches, as we have already discussed their
relation to computational approaches in the introduction.
Model extraction and code generation. Bhargavan et
al. [10] present a sound model extractor from (a ﬁrst-order
subset of) F# to ProVerif models. They work with an abstract
datatype of bytestrings and corresponding interfaces for the
cryptographic and network libraries, which they instantiate
both to symbolic terms for prototyping and to actual library
implementations. This approach is used in [36] to verify
TLS 1.0. In [4], the authors extract models from a typed
JavaScript reference implementation of TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3.
Several works generate both models for veriﬁcation and exe-
cutable code from abstract protocol descriptions. In [7], [8],
Alice&Bob-style protocol speciﬁcations are translated into
ProVerif models and into JavaScript or Java implementations.
While in [8], the authors prove the correctness of a partial
translation from a high-level to a low-level semantics, neither
paper proves the full translation’s correctness. Sisto et al. [9]
generate a ProVerif model and a reﬁned Java implementation
from an abstract Java protocol speciﬁcation and prove the
implementation’s soundness. We have already discussed the
drawbacks of this family of approaches in the introduction.
Code veriﬁcation only. Bhargavan et al. [37] modularly
verify protocol code written in F# using the F7 reﬁnement
type checker [38]. They rely on protocol-speciﬁc invariants
for cryptographic structures, e.g., stating which messages
are public. Vanspauwen and Jacobs [33], [34] use a similar
approach for protocols implemented in C and veriﬁed using
VeriFast. They allow the concrete attacker to directly manip-
ulate bytestrings, which they overapproximate symbolically
by a set of terms. However, it is unclear what effect these
manipulations have on message parsing in the protocol roles.
While the veriﬁcation of global protocol properties in the
earlier work [37] required additional hand-written proofs, the
more recent work [11] enables their veriﬁcation in a single
tool, F⋆, by explicitly incorporating a global event trace.
While these approaches are also modular and thus
scale to protocols like Signal, ﬁnding a suitable protocol-
speciﬁc invariant is challenging. Our approach not only
decouples proving the security properties from verifying the
implementation’s correctness, it also leverages Tamarin’s
automated proof search.
Combined model and code veriﬁcation. Dupressoir et
al. [31], [32] use the interactive prover Coq for model
veriﬁcation in combination with the C code veriﬁer VCC.
Their approach involves reasoning about concrete bytestrings
and their relation to terms. The central deﬁnitions of the
protocol model are duplicated in Coq and in VCC and some
theorems proven in Coq are imported as axioms into VCC.
Igloo [19] is a framework for distributed system veriﬁca-
tion that soundly combines model reﬁnement in Isabelle/HOL
with code veriﬁcation using I/O speciﬁcations. Their case
studies include a simple authentication protocol. We follow
similar steps to extract I/O speciﬁcations from Tamarin
models, but do this generically and automatically for a
large class of protocol models. In contrast, these steps
must be repeated in Igloo for each protocol, which requires
13
1089
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 14,2025 at 13:39:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Isabelle/HOL expertise. Moreover, our way of relating terms
and bytestrings is more ﬂexible and realistic than theirs,
which assumes an injective function from bytestrings to
terms. Penninckx et al. [28] introduced I/O speciﬁcations for
verifying programs’ I/O behaviors, but they did not propose
a method for verifying global system properties.
Message parsing. Mödersheim and Katsoris [29] show that
an abstract symbolic model using message formats soundly
abstracts a more concrete model, which includes associative
message concatenation, variable and ﬁxed length ﬁelds,
and tags. Their result holds for protocols whose formats
are uniquely parseable and image-disjoint and they give
algorithms to check these conditions. This work has inspired
our use of bytestring algebras and our decomposition of
the pattern requirement into image disjointness and pattern
injectivity. Their focus is on abstraction soundness, whereas
ours is on code veriﬁcation. EverParse [30] is a framework
to generate provably secure (i.e., injective and surjective)
parsers and serializers for authenticated message formats.
8. Conclusion
We have proposed a novel approach to cryptographic
protocol veriﬁcation that soundly bridges abstract design
models, speciﬁed as multiset rewriting systems, with code-
level speciﬁcations. This allows us to leverage the automa-
tion and proof techniques available in Tamarin for design
veriﬁcation together with state-of-the-art program veriﬁers
to obtain security guarantees for protocol implementations.
Our approach is general, compatible with different code
veriﬁcation tools, and applicable to real-world protocols.
There are several exciting directions for future work. Our
framework is based on a Dolev-Yao attacker. It would be
interesting to relax this assumption and allow the concrete
attacker to perform additional (non-Dolev-Yao) bytestring
operations. Moreover, we currently only support trace prop-
erties. Some security properties such as privacy properties
can be formalized as observational equivalences, which
Tamarin also supports [39]. How to obtain implementation-
level equivalence guarantees from a symbolic model is an
open problem.
Acknowledgements. We thank the Werner Siemens-Stiftung
(WSS) for their generous support of this project. This work
received funding from the France 2030 program managed by
the French National Research Agency under grant agreement
No. ANR-22-PECY-0006. We would also like to thank the
anonymous reviewers for their helpful feedback and Soﬁa
Giampietro for her useful comments on an earlier draft of
this paper.
References
[1]
B. Schmidt, S. Meier, C. J. F. Cremers, and D. A. Basin, “Automated
analysis of Difﬁe-Hellman protocols and advanced security properties,”
in 25th IEEE Computer Security Foundations Symposium, CSF 2012,
Cambridge, MA, USA, June 25-27, 2012, 2012, pp. 78–94. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1109/CSF.2012.25
[2]
S. Meier, B. Schmidt, C. Cremers, and D. A. Basin, “The TAMARIN
prover for the symbolic analysis of security protocols,” in Computer
Aided Veriﬁcation - 25th International Conference, CAV 2013, Saint
Petersburg, Russia, July 13-19, 2013. Proceedings, 2013, pp. 696–701.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-39799-8_48
[3]
B. Blanchet, “An efﬁcient cryptographic protocol veriﬁer based
on Prolog rules,” in 14th IEEE Computer Security Foundations
Workshop (CSFW-14 2001), 11-13 June 2001, Cape Breton, Nova
Scotia, Canada.
IEEE Computer Society, 2001, pp. 82–96. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1109/CSFW.2001.930138
[4]
K. Bhargavan, B. Blanchet, and N. Kobeissi, “Veriﬁed models and
reference implementations for the TLS 1.3 standard candidate,” in
2017 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, SP 2017, San Jose,
CA, USA, May 22-26, 2017.
IEEE Computer Society, 2017, pp.
483–502. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1109/SP.2017.26
[5]
D. A. Basin, J. Dreier, L. Hirschi, S. Radomirovic, R. Sasse,
and V. Stettler, “A formal analysis of 5G authentication,” in
Proceedings of the 2018 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer
and Communications Security, CCS 2018, Toronto, ON, Canada,
October 15-19, 2018, D. Lie, M. Mannan, M. Backes, and
X. Wang, Eds.
ACM, 2018, pp. 1383–1396. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3243734.3243846
[6]
D. A. Basin, R. Sasse, and J. Toro-Pozo, “The EMV standard: Break,
ﬁx, verify,” in 42nd IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, SP 2021,
San Francisco, CA, USA, 24-27 May 2021.
IEEE, 2021, pp. 1766–
1781. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1109/SP40001.2021.00037
[7]
P. Modesti, “AnBx: Automatic generation and veriﬁcation of security
protocols implementations,” in Foundations and Practice of Security -
8th International Symposium, FPS 2015, Clermont-Ferrand, France,
October 26-28, 2015, Revised Selected Papers, ser. Lecture Notes in
Computer Science, J. García-Alfaro, E. Kranakis, and G. Bonfante,
Eds., vol. 9482.
Springer, 2015, pp. 156–173. [Online]. Available:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-30303-1_10
[8]
O. Almousa, S. Mödersheim, and L. Viganò, “Alice and Bob:
Reconciling formal models and implementation,” in Programming
Languages with Applications to Biology and Security - Essays
Dedicated
to
Pierpaolo
Degano
on
the
Occasion
of
His
65th
Birthday,
2015,
pp.
66–85.
[Online].
Available:
http:
//dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-25527-9_7
[9]
R. Sisto, P. B. Copet, M. Avalle, and A. Pironti, “Formally sound
implementations of security protocols with JavaSPI,” Formal Asp.
Comput., vol. 30, no. 2, pp. 279–317, 2018. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00165-017-0449-8
[10] K. Bhargavan, C. Fournet, A. D. Gordon, and S. Tse, “Veriﬁed
interoperable implementations of security protocols,” ACM Trans.
Program. Lang. Syst., vol. 31, no. 1, pp. 5:1–5:61, 2008. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/1452044.1452049
[11] K. Bhargavan, A. Bichhawat, Q. H. Do, P. Hosseyni, R. Küsters,
G. Schmitz, and T. Würtele, “DY*: A modular symbolic veriﬁcation
framework for executable cryptographic protocol code,” in IEEE
European Symposium on Security and Privacy, EuroS&P 2021,
Vienna, Austria, September 6-10, 2021.
IEEE, 2021, pp. 523–542.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1109/EuroSP51992.2021.00042
[12] D. Cadé and B. Blanchet, “Proved generation of implementations
from computationally secure protocol speciﬁcations,” in Principles of
Security and Trust - Second International Conference, POST 2013,
Held as Part of the European Joint Conferences on Theory and
Practice of Software, ETAPS 2013, Rome, Italy, March 16-24, 2013.
Proceedings, ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, D. A. Basin
and J. C. Mitchell, Eds., vol. 7796.
Springer, 2013, pp. 63–82.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-36830-1_4
[13] A. Delignat-Lavaud, C. Fournet, M. Kohlweiss, J. Protzenko,
A. Rastogi, N. Swamy, S. Z. Béguelin, K. Bhargavan, J. Pan, and J. K.
Zinzindohoue, “Implementing and proving the TLS 1.3 record layer,”
in 2017 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, SP 2017, San
Jose, CA, USA, May 22-26, 2017.
IEEE Computer Society, 2017,
pp. 463–482. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1109/SP.2017.58
14
1090
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 14,2025 at 13:39:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

[14] A.
Delignat-Lavaud,
C.
Fournet,
B.
Parno,
J.
Protzenko,
T. Ramananandro, J. Bosamiya, J. Lallemand, I. Rakotonirina,
and Y. Zhou, “A security model and fully veriﬁed implementation
for the IETF QUIC record layer,” in 42nd IEEE Symposium on
Security and Privacy, SP 2021, San Francisco, CA, USA, 24-27
May 2021.
IEEE, 2021, pp. 1162–1178. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1109/SP40001.2021.00039
[15] J. C. Reynolds, “Separation Logic: A logic for shared mutable data
structures,” in 17th IEEE Symposium on Logic in Computer Science
(LICS 2002), 22-25 July 2002, Copenhagen, Denmark, Proceedings.
IEEE Computer Society, 2002, pp. 55–74. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1109/LICS.2002.1029817
[16] F. A. Wolf, L. Arquint, M. Clochard, W. Oortwijn, J. C. Pereira,
and P. Müller, “Gobra: Modular speciﬁcation and veriﬁcation of
Go programs,” in Computer Aided Veriﬁcation - 33rd International
Conference, CAV 2021, Virtual Event, July 20-23, 2021, Proceedings,
Part I, ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, A. Silva and K. R. M.
Leino, Eds., vol. 12759.
Springer, 2021, pp. 367–379. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-81685-8_17
[17] B. Jacobs, J. Smans, P. Philippaerts, F. Vogels, W. Penninckx,
and F. Piessens, “VeriFast: A powerful, sound, predictable, fast
veriﬁer for C and Java,” in NASA Formal Methods - Third
International Symposium, NFM 2011, Pasadena, CA, USA, April
18-20, 2011. Proceedings, ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
M. G. Bobaru, K. Havelund, G. J. Holzmann, and R. Joshi,
Eds., vol. 6617.
Springer, 2011, pp. 41–55. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-20398-5_4
[18] M. Eilers and P. Müller, “Nagini: A static veriﬁer for Python,” in
Computer Aided Veriﬁcation - 30th International Conference, CAV
2018, Held as Part of the Federated Logic Conference, FloC 2018,
Oxford, UK, July 14-17, 2018, Proceedings, Part I, ser. Lecture
Notes in Computer Science, H. Chockler and G. Weissenbacher,
Eds., vol. 10981.
Springer, 2018, pp. 596–603. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-96145-3_33
[19] C. Sprenger, T. Klenze, M. Eilers, F. A. Wolf, P. Müller, M. Clochard,
and D. A. Basin, “Igloo: Soundly linking compositional reﬁnement
and separation logic for distributed system veriﬁcation,” Proc. ACM
Program. Lang., vol. 4, no. OOPSLA, pp. 152:1–152:31, 2020.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3428220
[20] L. Arquint, F. A. Wolf, J. Lallemand, R. Sasse, C. Sprenger, S. N.
Wiesner, D. Basin, and P. Müller, “Sound veriﬁcation of security
protocols: From design to interoperable implementations (extended
version),” 2022. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2212.04171
[21] ——, “Sound veriﬁcation of security protocols: From design to
interoperable implementations,” Aug. 2022, artifact containing the
speciﬁcation generation tool and the case studies. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7409524
[22] C. Cremers and M. Dehnel-Wild, “Component-based formal analysis of
5G-AKA: Channel assumptions and session confusion,” in 26th Annual
Network and Distributed System Security Symposium, NDSS 2019, San
Diego, California, USA, February 24-27, 2019.
The Internet Society,
2019. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.14722/ndss.2019.23394
[23] C. Cremers, M. Horvat, J. Hoyland, S. Scott, and T. van der
Merwe, “A comprehensive symbolic analysis of TLS 1.3,” in
Proceedings of the 2017 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer
and Communications Security, CCS 2017, Dallas, TX, USA, October
30 - November 03, 2017, 2017, pp. 1773–1788. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3133956.3134063
[24] G. Girol, L. Hirschi, R. Sasse, D. Jackson, C. Cremers, and
D. Basin, “A spectral analysis of Noise: A comprehensive,
automated, formal analysis of Difﬁe-Hellman protocols,” in 29th
USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 20).
Boston,
MA: USENIX Association, aug 2020. [Online]. Available: https:
//usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity20/presentation/girol
[25] D. Basin, R. Sasse, and J. Toro-Pozo, “Card brand mixup attack:
Bypassing the PIN in non-Visa cards by using them for Visa
transactions,” in 30th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX
Security 21).
USENIX Association, Aug. 2021. [Online]. Available:
https://usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity21/presentation/basin
[26] D. Dolev and A. C. Yao, “On the security of public key protocols,”
IEEE Trans. Information Theory, vol. 29, no. 2, pp. 198–207, 1983.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1109/TIT.1983.1056650
[27] G. Lowe, “A hierarchy of authentication speciﬁcation,” in 10th
Computer Security Foundations Workshop (CSFW ’97), June 10-12,
1997, Rockport, Massachusetts, USA, 1997, pp. 31–44. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1109/CSFW.1997.596782
[28] W. Penninckx, B. Jacobs, and F. Piessens, “Sound, modular and
compositional veriﬁcation of the input/output behavior of programs,”
in Programming Languages and Systems, J. Vitek, Ed.
Berlin,
Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2015, pp. 158–182.
[29] S. Mödersheim and G. Katsoris, “A sound abstraction of the
parsing problem,” in IEEE 27th Computer Security Foundations
Symposium,
CSF
2014,
Vienna,
Austria,
19-22
July,
2014.
IEEE Computer Society, 2014, pp. 259–273. [Online]. Available:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/CSF.2014.26
[30] T. Ramananandro, A. Delignat-Lavaud, C. Fournet, N. Swamy,
T. Chajed, N. Kobeissi, and J. Protzenko, “EverParse: Veriﬁed
secure zero-copy parsers for authenticated message formats,” in 28th
USENIX Security Symposium, USENIX Security 2019, Santa Clara,
CA, USA, August 14-16, 2019, N. Heninger and P. Traynor, Eds.
USENIX Association, 2019, pp. 1465–1482. [Online]. Available:
https://microsoft.com/en-us/research/publication/everparse
[31] F. Dupressoir, A. D. Gordon, J. Jürjens, and D. A. Naumann,
“Guiding a general-purpose C veriﬁer to prove cryptographic
protocols,” in Proceedings of the 24th IEEE Computer Security
Foundations Symposium, CSF 2011, Cernay-la-Ville, France, 27-29
June, 2011.
IEEE Computer Society, 2011, pp. 3–17. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1109/CSF.2011.8
[32] ——, “Guiding a general-purpose C veriﬁer to prove cryptographic
protocols,” Journal of Computer Security, vol. 22, no. 5, pp. 823–866,
2014. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.3233/JCS-140508
[33] G. Vanspauwen and B. Jacobs, “Verifying protocol implementations
by augmenting existing cryptographic libraries with speciﬁcations,”
in Software Engineering and Formal Methods - 13th International
Conference,
SEFM
2015,
York,
UK,
September
7-11,
2015.
Proceedings, ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, R. Calinescu
and B. Rumpe, Eds., vol. 9276.
Springer, 2015, pp. 53–68. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-22969-0_4
[34] ——, “Verifying cryptographic protocol implementations that use
industrial cryptographic APIs,” Department of Computer Science,
KU Leuven, Belgium, Tech. Rep., 2017. [Online]. Available:
https://lirias.kuleuven.be/retrieve/456879
[35] J. A. Donenfeld, “Go implementation of WireGuard,” https://git.zx2c4.
com/wireguard-go, [Online; accessed 11-March-2021].
[36] K. Bhargavan, C. Fournet, R. Corin, and E. Zalinescu, “Veriﬁed
cryptographic implementations for TLS,” ACM Trans. Inf. Syst.
Secur., vol. 15, no. 1, pp. 3:1–3:32, 2012. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/2133375.2133378
[37] K. Bhargavan, C. Fournet, and A. D. Gordon, “Modular veriﬁcation
of security protocol code by typing,” in Proceedings of the 37th
ACM SIGPLAN-SIGACT Symposium on Principles of Programming
Languages, POPL 2010, Madrid, Spain, January 17-23, 2010, M. V.
Hermenegildo and J. Palsberg, Eds.
ACM, 2010, pp. 445–456.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/1706299.1706350
[38] J. Bengtson, K. Bhargavan, C. Fournet, A. D. Gordon, and
S. Maffeis, “Reﬁnement types for secure implementations,” in
Proceedings of the 21st IEEE Computer Security Foundations
Symposium, CSF 2008, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA, 23-25 June
2008.
IEEE Computer Society, 2008, pp. 17–32. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1109/CSF.2008.27
[39] D. Basin, J. Dreier, and R. Sasse, “Automated symbolic proofs
of
observational
equivalence,”
in
Proceedings
of
the
22nd
ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications
Security, ser. CCS ’15.
New York, NY, USA: Association for
Computing Machinery, 2015, p. 1144–1155. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/2810103.2813662
15
1091
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 14,2025 at 13:39:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Appendix A.
Protocol format details
We require that the rules’ labels only contain facts from
Σact, i.e. for all l
a
−→r ∈R, facts(a) ⊆Σact. Here,
facts(s) denotes the set of fact symbols that occur in a
multiset of facts s. We assume that environment rules do
not directly use the agents’ internal states. Namely, for all
l
a
−→r ∈Renv, facts(l∪r) ⊆Σenv. In addition, any rule
in Renv producing a Setupi fact must not produce any other
facts on its right-hand side and its label must be empty.
We also require that rules for role i only use i’s state
and may consume facts in Σin (but must not produce them)
and may produce facts in Σout (but must not consume them).
More formally, we require, for all l
a
−→r ∈Ri, facts(l) ⊆
Σi
state ∪Σin and facts(r) ⊆Σi
state ∪Σout.
Finally, we require that for a protocol rule l
a
−→r ∈Ri,
at least one state fact appears in r, and that there is a ki ≥1
such that the tuple of the ﬁrst ki arguments of all state facts
in l
a
−→r is the same. Intuitively, these ﬁrst ki arguments
represent parameters of the run of the protocol role: their
value remains ﬁxed throughout the role’s execution. They
can be, for instance, the agent’s identity, a thread identiﬁer,
or any value that is assumed to be known beforehand by
the agent. We assume that the ﬁrst one of these arguments,
which we call rid, is of type fresh. It is intended to represent
a thread identiﬁer. For readability, we will usually group
these ki initial parameters as a tuple, denoted by init.
In summary, these formatting rules only impose very
mild constraints on Tamarin models. All protocol models in
the Tamarin distribution could easily be adapted to conform
to these constraints with only minor modiﬁcations. The main
changes would be related to providing a separate setup rule
for each role i and keeping the arguments of the resulting
Setupi fact as the initial arguments of all state facts as
described above.
Appendix B.
Formal deﬁnition of parallel compositions
We deﬁne the (indexed) interleaving parallel composition
||| and the (binary) synchronizing parallel composition ∥Λ.
These compose their argument MSR systems into a labeled
transition system.
The
(indexed)
interleaving
parallel
composition
|||i,ridRi(rid) has as states functions f that map each
pair (i, rid) to a multiset of state facts and transitions
f
a
−→f ′ if, for some i and rid, f(i, rid)
a
=⇒Ri(rid) S′ and
f ′ = f[(i, rid) 7→S′], where f ′ agrees with f except that it
maps (i, rid) to S′.
The synchronized composed system R1 ∥Λ R2 has states
of the form (S1, S2) and transitions (S1, S2)
a
−→(S′
1, S′
2) if
either
(i) a = [] and there is an a′ ∈E Λ such that S1
a′
=⇒R1 S′
1
and S2
a′
=⇒R2 S′
2,
(ii) a /∈E Λ, S1
a
=⇒R1 S′
1 and S′
2 = S2, or
(iii) a /∈E Λ, S2
a
=⇒R2 S′
2 and S′
1 = S1.
Here, a′ ∈E Λ means that a′ =E a for some a ∈Λ.
Appendix C.
Extended veriﬁer assumption
Following Penninckx et al. [28], we sketch an example
of semantic assumptions on programs and Hoare triples
that make our extended veriﬁer assumption (Assumption 1)
hold semantically. The soundness of the program logic itself,
i.e., that a provable Hoare triple ⊢α {φ} c {ψ} implies its
semantic validity |=α {φ} c {ψ}, is a separate topic beyond
the scope of our paper.
We assume that the programming language semantics
makes judgements of the form s, c ⇓s′, τ, meaning that the
program c when started in state s terminates in state s′ and
produces the I/O trace τ. This semantics induces a LTS C,
whose set of traces for a given starting state s0 is thus
Tr(C) = {τ | ∃s′. s0, c ⇓s′, τ}.
I/O speciﬁcations φ have both a static and a dynamic
semantics, which are deﬁned in terms of (I/O) heaps. Heaps
are multisets of (ground) I/O permission and token predicates.
The static semantics, written h |= φ, intuitively means that h
contains (at least) the I/O permissions and tokens prescribed
by φ. The dynamic semantics deﬁnes the set of traces allowed
by an I/O speciﬁcation φ to contain those traces that are
possible in all heap models of φ, i.e.,
Tr(φ) = {τ | ∀h. h |= φ =⇒h
τ−→},
where h
τ−→intuitively means that it is possible to produce a
trace τ by successively pushing the tokens in h through the
I/O permissions in h (and thus consume these permissions).
The semantics of Hoare triples of the form {φ} c {true}
with respect to an abstraction function α from program-level
I/O operations to abstract I/O permissions is given by
|=α {φ} c {true}
def
⇐⇒∀s, τ, s′, h. s, c ⇓s′, τ ∧h |= φ =⇒h
α(τ)
−−−→
⇐⇒α(Tr(C)) ⊆Tr(φ)
⇐⇒α(C) ≼φ.
Here, α(C) denotes the LTS C whose transition labels are
renamed under α. The ﬁnal equivalence uses the equality
α(Tr(C)) = Tr(α(C)).
Penninckx et al. [28]’s semantics is formulated for the
case where α is the identity function. Both our and their
semantics of Hoare triples also include non-trivial post-
conditions, which we omit here to simplify the presentation.
Appendix D.
WireGuard message construction
The details of the construction of the ciphertexts in
the messages for the WireGuard protocol are displayed in
Figure 7, where:
16
1092
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 14,2025 at 13:39:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

• aead is an AEAD algorithm, h is a hash function, kdf1,
kdf2, kdf3 are key derivation functions;
• in aead(k, n, p, a), k is the key, n a nonce or counter,
p the payload (both authenticated and encrypted), and
a the additional data (authenticated, but not encrypted);
• (kI, pkI) and (kR, pkR) are the initiator and responder’s
long-term private and public keys;
• (ekI, epkI = gekI) and (ekR, epkR = gekR) are the
initiator and responder’s ephemeral private and public
Difﬁe-Hellman keys, g being the group generator;
• info and prologue are ﬁxed strings containing protocol
information (version, etc.); and
• psk is an optional pre-shared key – if unused it is set
to a string of zeros.
cpkI, cts, cempty are computed as follows.
c0 =
h(info)
h0 =
h(⟨c0, prologue⟩)
h1 =
h(⟨h0, pkR⟩)
c1 =
kdf1(⟨c0, epkI⟩)
h2 =
h(⟨h1, epkI⟩)
c2 =
kdf1(⟨c1, gkR∗ekI⟩)
k1 =
kdf2(⟨c1, gkR∗ekI⟩)
cpkI =
aead(k1, 0, pkI, h2)
h3 =
h(⟨h2, cpkI⟩)
c3 =
kdf1(⟨c2, gkR∗kI⟩)
k2 =
kdf2(⟨c2, gkR∗kI⟩)
cts =
aead(k2, 0, timestamp, h3)
h4 =
h(⟨h3, cts⟩)
c4 =
kdf1(⟨c3, epkR⟩)
h5 =
h(⟨h4, epkR⟩)
c5 =
kdf1(⟨c4, gekR∗ekI⟩)
c6 =
kdf1(⟨c5, gekR∗kI⟩)
c7 =
kdf1(⟨c6, psk⟩)
π =
kdf2(⟨c6, psk⟩)
k3 =
kdf3(⟨c6, psk⟩)
h6 =
h(⟨h5, π⟩)
cempty =
aead(k3, 0, ””, h6)
kIR and kRI are the resulting exchanged keys: kIR =
kdf1(c7), kRI = kdf2(c7).
Figure 7. The WireGuard message construction
17
1093
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on November 14,2025 at 13:39:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

