Sweep-UC: Swapping Coins Privately
Lucjan Hanzlik
CISPA Helmholtz Center
for Information Security
hanzlik@cispa.de
Julian Loss
CISPA Helmholtz Center
for Information Security
loss@cispa.de
Sri AravindaKrishnan Thyagarajan
NTT Research
t.srikrishnan@gmail.com
Benedikt Wagner
CISPA Helmholtz Center
for Information Security
Saarland University
benedikt.wagner@cispa.de
Abstract—Fair exchange (also referred to as atomic swap) is a
fundamental operation in any cryptocurrency that allows users
to atomically exchange coins. While a large body of work has
been devoted to this problem, most solutions lack on-chain
privacy. Thus, coins retain a public transaction history which
is known to degrade the fungibility of a currency. This has led
to a ﬂourishing line of related research on fair exchange with
privacy guarantees. Existing protocols either rely on heavy
scripting (which also degrades fungibility and leads to high
transaction fees), do not support atomic swaps across a wide
range of currencies, or come with incomplete security proofs.
To overcome these limitations, we introduce Sweep-UC1,
the ﬁrst fair exchange protocol that simultaneously is efﬁcient,
minimizes scripting, and is compatible with a wide range of
currencies (more than the state of the art). We build Sweep-
UC from modular sub-protocols and give a rigorous security
analysis in the UC framework. Many of our tools and security
deﬁnitions can be used in standalone fashion and may serve as
useful components for future constructions of fair exchange.
Index Terms—Atomic Swap; Unlinkable exchange; Coin Mix-
ing; Blind Signatures;
1. Introduction
One of the most fundamental ﬁnancial operations is
exchanging one currency for another. Suppose that Alice
has one unit of currency A that she wants to exchange for
a unit of currency B. In the case of ﬁat currencies, she
can rely on a centralized authority such as a bank to fairly
implement the exchange on her behalf. Here, ‘fair’ means
that Alice can be sure that the bank will pay her with an
equivalent amount of currency of type B. When dealing with
decentralized cryptocurrencies, however, things are not as
simple. One can no longer rely on a trusted bank to provide
a fair exchange, as the main goal of such a system is to
avoid a single point of trust. Thus, rather than relying on
a centralized service, a large body of work has studied the
problem of fair exchange between two parties Alice (holding
a unit of currency A) and Bob (holding a unit of currency
B) [1], [2], [3], [4], [5], [6], [7]. The crucial security feature
studied in these works is atomicity (or fairness): at the end
1. Read as Sweep Ur Coins.
of the exchange, either Alice has a coin (i.e., a unit of
currency) of type B and Bob has a coin of type A, or both
Alice and Bob keep their original coins. These proposals
use the scripting languages of the underlying blockchains to
enforce speciﬁc spending behaviours which can be leveraged
to facilitate the exchange. Some of these solutions [2], [3]
use a special type of script called Hash Timelock Contract
(HTLC). Roughly speaking, Alice can use an HTLC script
with the hash function H to temporarily freeze some of
her coins as follows: The HTLC speciﬁes a value h such
that if Bob presents x with H(x) = h, Bob obtains Alice’s
coins. The HTLC script also speciﬁes some time T, after
which Alice is refunded her frozen coins if Bob has not
claimed them. Other solutions rely on trusted hardware [7]
or smart contracts [1], [4], [5], [6] such as those supported
by Ethereum. Unfortunately, it is well known that using
special scripts or contracts for swapping coins has severe
drawbacks:
1) The resulting protocol is incompatible with currencies
that do not offer such contracts, e.g., Monero [8].
2) The protocol results in expensive transactions for the
users swapping their coins, as verifying special scripts
or contracts on the blockchain incurs a higher fee than
regular scripts like verifying signatures on transactions.
3) It results in poor on-chain privacy, or in other words,
degrades the fungibility of swapped coins. In line with
the latin proverb pecunia non olet, money should not be
tainted by its origins. A currency is said to be fungible
if all units/coins in the currency have the same value,
independent of their history. However, the coins of trans-
actions using special scripts are clearly distinguishable
from those of regular transactions using only signature
veriﬁcation scripts. As a result, these coins accumulate
a so-called pseudo-value which may ultimately lead to
their censorship or being ransomed [9].
Existing Constructions. To overcome these issues, Thya-
garajan, Malavolta and Moreno-Sanchez proposed univer-
sal swaps [10]. Their protocol enables the fair exchange
of coins across arbitrary currencies while only requiring
the bare minimum script from the underlying blockchain
for verifying payments, namely, the veriﬁcation of digital
signatures. Unfortunately, their protocols do not offer an
efﬁcient solution for blockchains without support for adaptor
3822
2024 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP)
© 2024, Lucjan Hanzlik. Under license to IEEE.
DOI 10.1109/SP54263.2024.00081
2024 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) | 979-8-3503-3130-1/24/$31.00 ©2024 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/SP54263.2024.00081
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 22:14:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

signatures [11]. This strongly limits the applicability to im-
portant systems including Monero or the Chia network [12].
Due to the result of Erwig et al. [11], Chia (and any other
system based on unique signatures) provably lacks support
for adaptor signatures.
Tumblebit [13], A2L [14], and BlindHub [15] are atomic
swap protocols that take an alternate route. In these proto-
cols, Alice changes her coins with an untrusted intermediate
party, a tumbler (in the case of Tumblebit), or a hub (in the
case of A2L). While the intermediary can deny its service
to Alice, atomicity of the exchange between Alice and the
intermediary is guaranteed. Speciﬁcally, Alice can make a
payment of a coin in currency A to the intermediary, and in
return is guaranteed to get a payment of a coin in currency
B from the intermediary. Relying on such an intermediary
has many beneﬁts. For example, Alice no longer has to
solve the bootstrapping problem [2], [3], [1], [4], [5], [6],
which is to ﬁnd another user Bob to swap with. Instead,
she only needs to interact with the (permanently available)
intermediary. Thus, we call such an intermediary-based pro-
tocol a bootstrapped protocol. As a second beneﬁt, these
protocols also offer a privacy property called unlinkability.
Informally, unlinkability asserts that neither the intermediary
nor any other party can link the concrete coins that it swaps,
provided there are many swaps happening simultaneously.
In this manner, unlinkability can be used to break the
transaction history of coins and improve on-chain privacy.
Several academic and applied works [16], [17], [18], [19],
[20] have shown that mere pseudonyms do not guarantee
privacy or anonymity for the users and their coins. Many
instances [21] have showcased the importance of privacy and
anonymity of coins and there has been considerable effort
like CoinJoin [22], CoinShufﬂe [23], [24], among many
others to improve coin privacy. Even new currencies with
enhanced privacy were developed from scratch [8], [25].
Unfortunately, Tumblebit critically relies on the support
of HTLC scripts from the underlying blockchains, which re-
sults in poor compatibility (with systems like Monero). The
use of HTLC scripts also results in higher transaction fees
than standard transactions with signature veriﬁcation scripts
and poor fungibility (see above), as HTLC transactions can
be easily traced and tracked. While this issue is improved in
A2L, it was found in a later work [26] that there was a gap
in their security model that allowed for key recovery attacks
on speciﬁc instantiations. The authors of [26] also propose
ﬁxes to A2L called A2L+, but only prove security in an ide-
alized model (the linear-only encryption (LOE) model) [27]
with game-based security guarantees. They also propose a
version called A2LUC in the Universal Composability (UC)
framework [28], which unfortunately requires heavy cryp-
tographic tools like general-purpose two party computation
(GP-2PC). This makes A2LUC inefﬁcient for immediate use.
Moreover, both A2L+ and A2LUC do not offer compatibility
with systems lacking adaptor signature support. A more
recent protocol, BlindHub [15], is the ﬁrst to allow payments
with different amounts, thereby signiﬁcantly increasing the
anonymity set. Unfortunately, BlindHub is also restricted
to adaptor signatures and relies on general-purpose zero-
knowledge proofs (GP-ZK), introducing a similar efﬁciency
penalty as for A2LUC. Further, only one part of BlindHub,
called BlindChannel, is shown to be UC secure, and parts
of the analysis rely on the LOE model. We summarize these
existing solutions in Table 1.
Our Goal. With this state of affairs, achieving UC se-
curity without using general-purpose 2PC, and extending
the supported signature class beyond adaptor seems to be
challenging. We are interested in a protocol that overcomes
these limitations. Concretely, we ask the following question:
Is there a UC secure bootstrapped protocol for efﬁcient
and privacy-preserving fair exchange across a wide range
of currencies?
1.1. Our Contribution
We answer the above question positively by presenting
Sweep-UC. Like Tumblebit and A2L (series), Sweep-UC is
bootstrapped with an intermediary called the sweeper and
can be used to swap coins unlinkably and atomically. We
compare our protocol with existing solutions in Table 1 and
summarize its properties below.
Efﬁciency and Security. Sweep-UC achieves the strong
notion of UC security. At the same time, in contrast to [10],
[26], it does not rely on any heavy cryptographic machinery
such as general-purpose 2PC. In particular, we thereby solve
the challenge raised in [26]. On the way, we introduce
novel cut-and-choose techniques so as to avoid inefﬁcient
and theoretically unsound computations which treat random
oracles as arithmetic circuits. We show the practicality of
this approach by evaluating a prototype. We implement the
algorithms required by the exchange and redeem protocols.
In both cases, the sweeper’s part requires less than a second
on a standard laptop. The user’s part requires around ﬁve
seconds on the same platform to verify the cut-and-choose
and around one second to ﬁnalize the protocol.
Compatibility. To support swaps between currencies A and
B, Sweep-UC relies only on minimal scripting for verifying
signatures2. As discussed, this preserves on-chain privacy
and fungibility of the currencies involved. In terms of sup-
ported signature schemes, Sweep-UC is the ﬁrst protocol
that does not only support adaptor signatures. Namely, our
techniques enable the support of both unique signatures
and adaptor signatures in currencies A and B, in any
combination. We give concrete instantiations for discrete-
logarithm adaptor signatures, e.g., Schnorr or ECDSA [11],
and BLS [30]3. Our techniques carry over to many other
signature schemes of this kind.
Modularity. Sweep-UC is presented and analyzed in a mod-
ular way. That is, we deﬁne two exchange-like primitives in
2. Similar to Tumblebit, A2L, and its variants, it also relies on timelocks
(e.g., the locktime script available in Bitcoin). Timelocks allow coins
to be locked, such that they can be spent only after a delay. This much
weaker scripting functionality can be eliminated using [29].
3. If we are willing to accept NIZK proofs about random oracles, we
show that A can use any adaptor or unique signature scheme, and B can
use any signature scheme.
3823
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 22:14:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Protocol
Scripts
Signature
UC
Amounts
Comments
Tumblebit [13]
HTLC
ECDSA
P
Fixed
A2L [14]
SV
Adaptor

Fixed
Gap in proof
A2L+ [26]
SV
Adaptor

Fixed
need LOE model
A2LUC [26]
SV
Adaptor

Fixed
need GP-2PC
BlindHub [15]
SV
Adaptor
P
Variable
need GP-ZK, LOE Model
Sweep-UC
SV
Adaptor, BLS

Fixed
TABLE 1. COMPARISON OF OUR PROTOCOL Sweep-UC WITH PREVIOUS PROTOCOLS. WE COMPARE THE REQUIRED SCRIPTING FUNCTIONALITY,
WHERE SV STANDS FOR SIGNATURE VERIFICATION. WE ALSO COMPARE THE SUPPORTED SIGNATURE SCHEMES, AS WELL AS THE SECURITY THAT IS
PROVEN. FOR THAT, A “P” INDICATES THAT ONLY PARTS OF THE PROTOCOL ARE ANALYZED IN UC. FINALLY, WE COMPARE WHETHER THE
PROTOCOLS REQUIRE A FIXED PAYMENT AMOUNT. ALL PROTOCOLS ADDITIONALLY REQUIRE A TIMELOCK SCRIPT, WHICH CAN BE REMOVED USING
TOOLS FROM [29].
a game-based way (one per currency that is involved). Then,
we show the UC security of Sweep-UC based on the game-
based security of these sub-protocols in a black-box fashion.
We think the deﬁnition of these sub-protocols is of great
interest for two reasons. First, one may use these deﬁnitions
and our constructions in other protocols. Second, it makes
Sweep-UC easily extendable. For example, to support other
currencies or further improve efﬁciency, one only has to
focus on the construction of these game-based sub-protocols
instead of doing a cumbersome UC proof again.
Sweeper W
Alice
Alice
sn
Redeem
Alice gets coins
⇐⇒
Alice knows blind
signature σBS for
sn.
Wait until Redeem is
set up.
Exchange
Alice gets blind
signature σBS
⇐⇒
W gets coins.
σBS
coins
σBS
coins
Figure 1. Informal overview of the high level structure of protocol
Sweep-UC. The protocol is run between the sweeper W and a user Alice,
using a redeem protocol and an exchange protocol as sub-protocols. The
gray area represents an anonymous channel. The sweeper acts as a signer
in the blind signature scheme.
2. Technical Overview
In this section, we give an overview of our construction
and techniques. For our explanation, we follow a top-down
approach. We ﬁrst describe the protocol blueprint and how
we model its security, and then show how to deﬁne and
instantiate necessary building blocks. We consider a setting
where a user Alice wants to swap coins with an intermediary
called the sweeper W4. This should be done in an atomic
and unlinkable way.
Blueprint. Assume Alice owns addresses pkin and pkout
and the sweeper owns pkW. Our goal is to coordinate
two payments txout = pka,out →pkW in currency A and
4. S is reserved for the simulator in the UC proof.
txin = pkW →pka,in in currency B5. To coordinate these
payments, Sweep-UC implements a form of Chaum’s E-
Cash [31], which is also the common high level structure
of previous protocols [13], [14], [26], [32]. In this E-Cash
approach, Alice signs txout using her secret key ska,out
(associated with pka,out) and obtains a voucher in exchange.
Then, Alice can use that voucher to get a signature (valid
with respect to pkW) for txin. Let us now explain the steps
of Sweep-UC in a bit more detail. An overview can be
found in Figure 1. We assume that the sweeper holds the
secret key skBS for a blind signature scheme BS, and the
corresponding public key pkBS is known to every user.
In the ﬁrst step (right-hand side), Alice registers a ran-
dom nonce sn at the sweeper via a protocol that we call
redeem protocol. Intuitively, this protocol should ensure that
whenever Alice has a valid blind signature σBS for sn in the
future, she will be able to learn a signature for transaction
txin. She could then publish this signature to get coins from
W. We can ensure that W can not spend these coins in the
meantime by locking them in a shared address for a certain
time, which is a standard technique6.
In the second step (left-hand side), Alice executes a blind
signature protocol for message sn with the sweeper. Here,
Alice acts as the user, W has the role of the signer, and the
messages are sent via an anonymous channel. In practice,
this would be done via Tor, similar to what is done in
previous works [32], [33]. In exchange, the signed payment
txout is published, i.e., W gets coins. To ensure fairness,
we wrap what we call an exchange protocol around the
blind signature interaction. Finally (right-hand side), Alice
uses the received blind signature σBS on sn in the redeem
protocol to get a signature on payment txin and publishes the
signed payment. One of the major design challenges to be
overcome is to set up both the left and the right-hand side
in a compatible way. We will come back to the required
security guarantees for the exchange and redeem protocols
later.
5. In practice, the sweeper would use a different key for each currency.
We use one key pkW to simplify presentation.
6. This is why our protocol, as well as previous protocols, requires
timelocks.
3824
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 22:14:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

2.1. Challenge 1: UC Modeling
Before we start thinking about a UC proof, we need
to deﬁne an appropriate ideal functionality Fux. Our ﬁrst
attempt to do this is to have three interfaces, covering the
three phases as above. That is, we have interfaces where the
user can (1) register a receiving key pkin (right-hand side),
(2) add a payment (left-hand side) by specifying pkout and
refering to the registered pkin, and (3) get the payment for
pkin (right-hand side). Deﬁning the details appropriately, we
can argue that this models an atomic and unlinkable swap
between a user and the sweeper. However, we run into a
problem when we want to prove the security of our protocol.
This problem, as discussed extensively in [26], arises from
the blindness of blind signatures. It is the reason why the
UC proof of A2L [14] is ﬂawed. In a UC proof, a simulator
will communicate with a corrupted user Alice, and it has to
call the interface (2) appropriately. Speciﬁcally, it needs to
refer to some previously registered (via interface (1)) key
pkin. If blindness of BS is unconditional, the simulator can
not do that, as it can not extract the correct pkin. For the
case of computational blindness, we refer the reader to [26]
for a detailed discussion. Namely, based on the common
structure of known blind signature schemes, the authors of
[26] elaborate that there is only little hope to get a secure
system if blindness is computational. The solution taken in
[26] is to rely on idealized models, which we want to avoid.
Solution: New Interface. Solving this fundamental problem
is our ﬁrst technical contribution. We view the problem as
follows: When Alice interacts with W (or the simulator), she
does not commit to the registration call for which she gets
a blind signature. In other words, we cannot rule out that
Alice changes the receiving public key pkin after obtaining
the blind signature on the left. At the same time, there
is no reason why we should rule this out. Namely, even
if Alice changes pkin to pk′
in afterwards, this does steal
coins from the sweeper, as long as she can not redeem
coins (interface (3)) for both pkin and pk′
in. With this in
mind, we add an additional interface ChangePayment, that
allows the simulator to change pkin to pk′
in in case Alice is
corrupted and both pkin, pk′
in have been registered before.
Note that the number of coins that the sweeper spends in
total stays the same, so this is still secure for the sweeper.
Now, we can solve the commitment problem in the proof.
Namely, the simulator can just use an arbitrary pkin, and
call ChangePayment with the correct pk′
in afterwards, once
it learns sn in the third phase of the protocol. Combined with
what follows, this weakening of the functionality allows
us to get UC security without using heavy cryptographic
machinery or idealized models as in [26].
2.2. Challenge 2: Appropriate Building Blocks
To build our protocol in a modular way, we want to
deﬁne syntax and game-based security notions for the ex-
change on the left and the redeem protocol on the right (see
Figure 1). It turns out that ﬁnding security notions that are
strong enough to be used in the UC proof but still possible
to instantiate is non-trivial. We view the precise deﬁnitions
of the building blocks as our second technical contribution.
In this overview, we want to motivate the security notions
for redeem and exchange protocols starting from the UC
proof. As an example, we focus on the case of a corrupted
user Alice and an honest sweeper W.
Intuition. We want to avoid that W loses coins and this
should follow from one-more unforgeability of BS. This is
because W loses coins if it pays more on the right than
it receives on the left. Hopefully, if the user learns a blind
signature on the left, W receives a coin, and if W pays on
the right, then the user must have known a blind signature.
Proof Challenge. To make this intuition formal in the UC
proof, we would need to rule out the bad event that W loses
money. Namely, the probability of this bad event should be
bounded using a reduction R from one-more unforgeability.
To recall, such a reduction has access to the public key
of BS as well as a signer oracle. If W loses money, then
reduction R should output ℓ+ 1 valid blind signatures,
while interacting at most ℓtimes with the signer oracle, for
some ℓ∈N. If we think about this reduction, we may get
information about how to deﬁne security of exchange and
redeem protocols appropriately. Naturally, we may want to
argue that
(1)
W receives ℓcoins on the left
=⇒R uses signer oracle ℓtimes,
(2)
W pays ℓ+ 1 coins on the right
=⇒R outputs ℓ+ 1 blind signatures.
Thus, we should establish that there is (1) a one-to-one
correspondence between the number of payments received
on the left and the number of times R needs to access the
signer oracle, and (2) a one-to-one correspondence between
the number of times the sweeper pays on the right and the
number of blind signatures that R learns.
Implications for Building Blocks. We start with (1). To
establish this in our proof, we have to remove all usage
of the blind signature secret key skBS from both redeem
and exchange protocols. The only exception is the case in
which the exchange on the left is completed, and therefore
we know that W receives coins. Even in this case, we
can only rely on a signer oracle for our simulation, as the
reduction only has access to such an oracle and not to skBS
directly. More precisely, as long as we are not sure that
the exchange protocol is completed and W receives coins,
we have to simulate the messages in the exchange protocol
without calling the signer oracle or using skBS. Once we
know the exchange protocol is complete, we are allowed to
use the signer oracle to make the simulation look consistent.
Similarly, all messages sent by W on the right that are
computed using skBS have to be simulated without using
skBS or any signer oracle.
For (2), note that in the real protocol, W may never learn
the blind signatures with which the user redeems its coins.
This is because turning the blind signature into a transaction
3825
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 22:14:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

signature has to be done locally without any interaction7,
and W only sees the resulting transaction signature on the
chain. Therefore, the redeem protocol should provide some
knowledge-style (online) extractor for the UC proof. This
extractor should extract blind signatures whenever a user
publishes a transaction signature.
2.3. Challenge 3: Efﬁcient Instantiation
Next, we discuss the instantiation of exchange and re-
deem protocols, which is our third contribution. We have
constructions for both unique signatures and adaptor signa-
tures. In both cases, the blind signature scheme BS is the
BLS blind signature scheme. Note that BS can be chosen
independently of the used currencies, as blind signatures
are only processed off-chain in our solution. In this blind
signature scheme, the signing interaction consists of two
messages bsm1 ∈G and bsm2 = bsmskBS
1
∈G in a cyclic
group G of prime order p. For this overview, we focus on the
case where BLS is used as the transaction signature scheme.
The other constructions use similar ideas, replacing the need
for uniqueness with the adaptor signature functionality.
A First Attempt. We start with the redeem protocol on the
right. Here, the user Alice should be able to get a transaction
signature σ for transaction txin = pkW →pka,in once
it knows the blind signature σBS. This should be possible
without further interaction with W, as W could go ofﬂine.
A naive approach would be to let W encrypt σ into a
ciphertext ct using σBS as a symmetric key. To convince
Alice that she can really decrypt, i.e., ct is well-formed,
W could append a non-interactive zero-knowledge proof
(NIZK) π. That is, to set up the redeem protocol, W would
send a “promise” message prom = (ct, π) to Alice. Once
Alice veriﬁed this message (by verifying π), Alice can be
sure that she can decrypt σ using σBS, and start interacting
on the left. While this solution seems to work intuitively,
we encounter a problem in our analysis. Recall from our
discussion about the security of building blocks that we
would have to simulate ct and π without having access to
skBS or σBS. The challenge here is that once the user knows
σBS (e.g., because it behaves honestly), the ciphertext ct
should look consistent again. To implement this, we deﬁne
ct := H(σBS) ⊕σ instead and use the programmability of
the random oracle H. Namely, we send a simulated π and
a random ct ﬁrst, and program H(σBS) := ct ⊕σ once it
is queried. We can use a similar approach for the exchange
on the left, applying appropriate tweaks. Namely, we ﬁrst
establish that signing txout requires two signatures σW and
σa by W and Alice, respectively8. We encrypt the blind
signature response bsm2 using transaction signature σW for
transaction txa in the same way, i.e., ct := H(σW) ⊕bsm2.
When Alice receives ct and a NIZK π, she sends her share
σa if π veriﬁes. Then, once W publishes σW, σa, Alice
derives bsm2 from ct.
7. Otherwise, if a user relied on interaction with the sweeper in this step,
then a malicious sweeper could go ofﬂine and violate fairness.
8. This can be implemented using a multi-signature address.
The constructions sketched here have a signiﬁcant short-
coming: We use NIZKs to prove relations deﬁned by random
oracle H. This non-standard use of the random oracle has
unclear security implications, and we want to avoid it.
Strawman’s Cut-and-Choose Solution. The challenge is
that our current strategy crucially relies on the observability
and programmability of the random oracle as well as the ver-
iﬁability of the NIZK. We have to ﬁnd a way to exploit these
features of the random oracle while avoiding generic NIZKs
about random oracle relations. In the following, we explain
our solution for the redeem protocol only. The exchange
protocol can be constructed through suitable modiﬁcations
and switching roles as in our naive attempt. We also omit
some minor details for readability. Roughly, our idea is to
use cut-and-choose to implement the proof π. In such a
technique, W would repeat the naive attempt in 2λ instances
independently, and has to open λ randomly chosen instances
to convince Alice of consistency. Clearly, this does not work
directly because any opened instance already allows Alice
to obtain money without knowing σBS. A ﬁrst attempt to
solve this problem using secret sharing is as follows:
1) W sends a ciphertext ct0 = hf ′(0) · σ, and ciphertexts
ctj = H(σBS, j)⊕hf ′(j), j ∈[2λ], where h is a generator
of G, and f ′ is a random polynomial of degree λ over
Zp. W also commits to f ′ by sending its coefﬁcients in
the exponent. W can prove well-formedness of ct0 using
an efﬁcient NIZK, as the statement is purely algebraic9.
2) Alice challenges W to open ctk by sending σBS and
f ′(k) for λ randomly chosen k10.
3) Using the opening, Alice can check consistency by re-
computing ctk for all opened k, and checking in the
exponent that f ′(k) indeed lies on the polynomial f ′.
The cut-and-choose technique guarantees that, with over-
whelming probability, at least one unopened ciphertext
ctk∗is also consistent.
4) To redeem, once Alice learns σBS from the exchange on
the left, she can decrypt ctk∗to learn hf ′(j). Now, she
has λ+1 evaluations of f ′ (in the exponent of h), which
allows her to compute hf ′(0) and decrypt ct0.
This approach allows the user to check consistency without
requiring the NIZK π. At the same time, we can still use
the observability and programmability of the random oracle
as in the naive attempt. However, note that this solution is
heavily ﬂawed: When W opens ctk by sending σBS and
f ′(k), the user learns σBS, and can therefore redeem its
coins without interacting on the left. On a technical level,
simulating the promise without knowing σBS will fail.
Our Cut-and-Choose Solution. To solve this, we introduce
another layer of secret sharing. We use the structure of BLS
blind signatures to share σBS = H(sn)skBS into σj, j ∈[2λ]
using a random polynomial f of degree λ such that
f(0) = skBS,
pkBS = gskBS,
pkBS,j = gf(j),
σj = H(sn)f(j).
9. The relation is deﬁned by h and ﬁrst coefﬁcients of f′, and pkW.
10. This can be done non-interactively using the Fiat-Shamir heuristic.
3826
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 22:14:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Then, each ciphertext has the form ctj = H(σj)⊕hf ′(j), and
can be opened by sending σj. Again, we publish coefﬁcients
of f in the exponent, which allows to publicly compute
pkBS,j. Now, the user can check consistency of σj using
pkBS,j and BLS veriﬁcation. Also, note that Alice (compu-
tationally) only learns λ points of f in the exponent of basis
H(sn). Once Alice bought the blind signature σBS on the left,
this serves as the (λ+1)st share, and she can reconstruct f in
the exponent of basis H(sn), i.e., she learns all σj. Then, the
argument is as before. Namely, soundness of the cut-and-
choose guarantees that there is at least one unopened k∗
for which ctk∗is consistent. As in the strawman solution,
she can now compute hf ′(0) and therefore σ from ct0. It
turns out that, if implemented carefully, the random oracle-
based simulation strategy works out now. Our simulator can
know which indices are opened in advance. Then, without
knowing skBS and σBS, it can deﬁne the polynomial f
such that f(0) = skBS implicitly in the exponent, while
still knowing λ points of f over Zp. These can be used
to open consistently, and the unopened ctj are sampled at
random as in the naive attempt. Then, once Alice queries
H(σj) for some unopened σj, the simulator can compute
f entirely in the exponent of basis H(tx), and program
H(σj) = ctj ⊕hf ′(j) for all unopened j.
3. Preliminaries
The security parameter λ ∈N is given in unary to
all algorithms implicitly as input. We write x ←$ S if x
is sampled uniformly at random from a ﬁnite set S. We
write x ←D if x is sampled according to a distribution
D. An algorithm is said to be PPT if its running time is
bounded by a polynomial in its input size. For an algorithm
A, we write y ←A(x), if y is output from A on input x
with random coins sampled uniformly at random. We write
y := A(x; ρ) to make the random coins ρ explicit. The
notation y ∈A(x) means that y is a possible output of
A(x). A function f : N →R+ is said to be negligible in
its input λ, if f ∈λ−ω(1). The ﬁrst K natural numbers
are denoted by [K] := {1, . . . , K}. Next, we introduce the
cryptographic primitives we use. For formal deﬁnitions, we
refer to our full version [34], Appendix A.
Digital
Signatures.
A
signature
scheme
SIG
=
(Gen, Sig, Ver) consists of three PPT algorithms. The
key generation algorithm Gen(1λ) generates a key pair
(pk, sk). We require the public keys pk generated by Gen
to have high entropy. The signing algorithm Sig(sk, m)
generates a signature σ on the message m. The veriﬁcation
algorithm Ver(pk, m, σ) validates the signature σ with
respect to message m and public key pk and returns either
1 for valid, or 0 for invalid. A signature scheme is said
to be unique if for any public key pk and message m,
there exists exactly one σ with Ver(pk, m, σ) = 1. The
security property of interest is that of unforgeability. Here,
an adversary without access to the secret key sk, should not
be able to forge a valid signature on a fresh message, even
given access to signatures on any arbitrary messages of its
choice. (EUF-CMA security). Finally, we may require the
signature scheme to be smooth, meaning that for any (not
necessarily honestly generated) public key and message, a
random string in the signature space is a valid signature
only with negligible probability.
Blind Signatures. In a blind signature scheme [31] a user
can obtain a signature on a message from a signer such
that the signer does not learn the message itself. Formally,
a blind signature scheme is a tuple BS = (Gen, S, U, Ver),
where Gen and Ver are as before. Signatures are generated in
an interactive protocol between a user U(pk, m) and a signer
S(sk). We only consider two-move blind signature schemes,
for which the interaction is as follows: (bsm1, St) ←
U1(pk, m),
bsm2 ←S(sk, bsm1),
σ ←U2(St, bsm2).
We write σ ←BS.Sig(sk, m) as a shorthand notation for
this interaction. A unique blind signature scheme is deﬁned
exactly as in the case of standard digital signatures. In terms
of security, two notions are considered. Blindness states
that it should be infeasible for an adversarial signer to link
the signing interaction to the message m and the resulting
signature σ. For this work, we only need a relaxed version
of this property referred to as weak blindness, where the
adversary is not given σ, but only if σ was a valid signature
or not. The second notion is one-more unforgeability, which
guarantees that it is infeasible for an adversarial user to
return ℓ+ 1 valid signatures after completing at most ℓ
interactions with the signer.
Threshold Secret Sharing. We use Shamir secret sharing
[35] and Lagrange interpolation over ﬁelds and in the expo-
nent of a cyclic group. To this end, let p be a prime, and G
be a cyclic group of order p, generated by g ∈G. Let z ∈
Zp be ﬁxed. We deﬁne algorithms reconstp((x0, y0), . . . ,
(xλ, yλ)) and reconstg,z((x0, h0), . . . , (xλ, hλ)) that take
as input pairs (xi, yi) ∈Z2
p and (xi, hi) ∈Zp × G,
respectively, as follows: Both deﬁne polynomials ℓj(X)
:= Q
m∈{0,...,λ},m̸=j (X −xm)/(xj −xm) ∈Zp[X]. Al-
gorithm reconstp outputs L(X) := Pλ
j=0 yj · ℓj(X) ∈
Zp[X], and reconstg,z outputs Qλ
j=0 hℓj(z)
j
. Further, given
λ indices (kj)j∈[λ] for kj
∈
[2λ], we deﬁne algo-
rithm polyGeng,p(λ, coeﬀ0, (kj)j∈[λ]) that internally gener-
ates a polynomial f(X) ∈Zp[X] of degree λ and out-
puts λ evaluations ((kj, skj := f(kj))j∈[λ] and λ coef-
ﬁcients (coeﬀj)j∈[λ]. For the outputs, we have gf(kj) =
Qλ
i=0(coeﬀi)(kj)i for all j ∈[λ] and gf(0) = coeﬀ0.
4. Security Model
Here, we discuss the security properties that we want to
achieve and introduce our security model.
Security Properties and Threat Model. Throughout, all
parties, including the sweeper, can be fully malicious and
deviate from the protocol speciﬁcation. Our protocol should
satisfy three security properties, namely security for users,
security for the sweeper, and unlinkability. Our protocol
should achieve security for users in the sense that the
sweeper should not be able to steal users coins. In other
3827
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 22:14:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

words, whenever an honest user pays to the sweeper, it
is guaranteed that it will be paid back by the sweeper,
even if for example the sweeper goes ofﬂine. On the other
hand, our protocol should ensure security for the sweeper.
This means that colluding users should only be able to
get coins from the sweeper if they paid before. Finally,
we aim for unlinkability. This property means that if a lot
of users interact with the sweeper at the same time, then
neither the sweeper nor any outsider can link the interaction
and payment in which the user paid to the sweeper to the
interaction and payment in which the sweeper paid to the
user. More concretely, let us denote an interaction between
a user Pi and the sweeper in our protocol by two vertices
ai, bi in a graph. Vertex ai corresponds to the payment from
Pi to the sweeper, and bi corresponds to the payment from
the sweeper to Pi. Given a set of such users, consider
the complete bipartite graph G on partitions A = {ai}
and B = {bi}. The actual payments induce a matching
M ∗= {(ai, bi)}. Our unlinkability deﬁnition now roughly
states that both sweeper and outsiders obtain no information
about M ∗, except for what is already revealed by G. Note
that we did not yet specify which users we consider in this
model, i.e., the anonymity set. This will be made clear once
we discuss the functionality.
UC Framework. We model the security of our protocol
in the universal composabililty (UC) framework [28] with
static corruptions. In terms of communication, our protocol
makes use of secure and anonymous channels. In practice,
one would implement the anonymous channel using Tor,
similar to what is done in previous works [32], [33]. Also,
we consider a synchronous model of communication. This
means that we implicitly assume a global clock functional-
ity [36], and protocols are executed in rounds. Every party
is aware of the current round. Thus, parties and functional-
ities can expect messages to be received at a certain time.
Assuming a synchronous model implicitly using a clock
functionality is similar to other works in this area [37], [33],
[38], [14], [10], [26]. Further, our construction makes use
of random oracles within sub-protocols, for which we prove
game-based security properties. In our UC proof, we then
treat the sub-protocols as a black box. Especially, we remark
that we do not use the global random oracle model [39],
[40]. This heuristic is common practice in the area [13],
[33], [38], [14], [10], where the sub-protocols are treated as
a black-box during security analysis but instantiated in the
random oracle model for practical efﬁciency.
Ledger Functionality. As in previous works [37], [10],
we model the blockchain as a global ledger functional-
ity LSIG parameterized by a signature scheme SIG. We
postpone the formal presentation of LSIG to our full ver-
sion [34], Figure 16. The functionality holds the current
balances bal[pk] ∈N0 of public keys pk. Parties can
call LSIG.Pay(pks, pkr, c, sks) to pay c coins from address
pks to address pkr using secret key sks. Further, we al-
low functionalities to call interfaces LSIG.Freeze(pk, c)
and LSIG.Unfreeze(pk′, c) to freeze c coins of an ad-
dress pk or to unfreeze them into an address pk′. Also,
our protocol makes use of a functionality Fs, formally
speciﬁed in our full version [34], Figure 17. Via interface
Fs.OpenSh(T, pkin, Pb, c, skin) this functionality allows a
party Pa to open a shared address (pka, pkb) with party Pb
by paying c coins from pkin into it. As a result, Pa gets se-
cret key share ska and Pb gets secret key share skb. Later, it
can be closed using Fs.CloseSh(pka, pkb, pkout, c, σa, σb),
where σa, σb are valid signatures on a closing transaction tx
with respect to pka, pkb, respectively. In this case, the c coins
are transferred to pkout. If the shared address is not closed
after timeout T, the coins go back to pkin. For simplicity,
we make use of the component-wise multi-signature here. It
should be noted that everything easily carries over to more
efﬁcient and scriptless multi-signature schemes, the shared
address consists of a single public key. We note that in the
description of our protocol, the interfaces LSIG.Freeze and
LSIG.Unfreeze are only called by Fs, and it is well known
[10] how to instantiate such a shared address functionality
without scripts in existing cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin.
Therefore, these two interfaces only serve for modeling
purposes and do not introduce special scripts.
Unlinkable Exchange Functionality. We model the prop-
erties that our protocol should achieve as an ideal func-
tionality Fux for unlinkable exchanges. The formal presen-
tation of the functionality is postponed to Figure 3. The
functionality interacts with LSIG. It is parameterized by a
timeout parameter T and an amount amt. All payments will
have this ﬁxed amount, which is important to maximize
the anonymity set. When a user P wants to use Fux to
exchange coins with the sweeper W, it ﬁrst calls interface
Fux.Register(pkb), which freezes amt coins of some ﬁxed
public key pkW of W. Here, the adversary learns P, pkb.
Next, party P calls Fux.AddPayment(pka, ska, pkb), which
leads to amt coins of pka being transferred to pkW. Here,
the adversary only learns pka, and not P, pkb. Finally, party
P calls Fux.GetPayment(pkb). If the corresponding calls to
Register and AddPayment were issued correctly, this leads
to unfreezing the amt coins that were frozen in Register
into address pkb. In this way, P paid amt coins from address
pka to W and received amt coins to pkb from W. In
addition to the natural interfaces above, we also introduce
an interface ChangePayment, that allows the simulator to
change receiving public keys pkb if the party that called
AddPayment is corrupted. The reason for this is discussed
in the technical overview. Observe that the number of coins
that pkW pays stays the same when calling this interface.
Let us argue how the informal security properties dis-
cussed above are captured by Fux. A malicious W is always
allowed to make the calls to Register and AddPayment
abort. However, whenever Register and AddPayment were
issued without such an abort, there is no way to stop the
coin transfer to pkb in GetPayment. Thus, the functionality
provides security for users. On the other hand, a call to
GetPayment will only lead to coins being transferred to
pkb, if AddPayment has been called before. This implies that
the functionality provides security for the sweeper. Finally,
note that the adversary can not link the calls to AddPayment
3828
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 22:14:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

to the calls to Register, GetPayment using the outputs
of Fux. The only way he can link these calls is by their
order in comparison with calls from other parties. Before,
we described this unlinkability guarantee using a graph G
and a matching M ∗. What remains is to deﬁne under what
conditions two users Pi and Pj that call the interfaces
Register, AddPayment, and GetPayment belong to the
same graph or anonymity set. For x ∈{r = Register, a =
AddPayment, g = GetPayment} and k ∈{i, j} let tx,k
be the time when user k calls interface x. Then, Pi and
Pj belong to the same graph, if and only if tr,i, tr,j <
ta,i, ta,j < tg,i, tg,j.
Simpliﬁcations. Let us now discuss the simpliﬁcations that
we make and explain how one would have to deal with them
when using our protocol in practice. It is easy to see that
these simpliﬁcations do not change the security guarantees
that we give. First, we do not include any fee for the sweeper
in our model. In practice, a fee is necessary to incentivize
the sweeper as a service. Also, in a practical application,
it may be useful to introduce some epochs in which the
users run the sub-protocols for Register, AddPayment,
GetPayment. This would have a positive effect on the size
of the anonymity set. Finally, to avoid clutter, we modeled
our protocol for one ledger functionality, and thus one
currency. However, the reader should notice that both our
functionality and our construction can be trivially adapted
to the setting of two different currencies. This is because the
calls to LSIG in Register and GetPayment are completely
independent of the calls to LSIG in AddPayment.
5. Building Blocks for Sweep-UC
In this section, we ﬁrst deﬁne an exchange protocol and
give different instantiations of it. Then, we deﬁne a redeem
protocol and present constructions. In a nutshell, using an
exchange protocol, a user will buy a blind signature from the
sweeper. Then, using the redeem protocol, it can turn it in to
get a signed transaction from the sweeper. Throughout, we
use the terminology “on the left/right” following Figure 1.
5.1. Exchange Protocol
We deﬁne the syntax and security of the exchange
protocol on the left. Later, we give instantiations of it.
Setting. Consider the following scenario for a signature
scheme SIG and a blind signature scheme BS. A buyer and
a seller11 opened a shared address (pkb, pks) for SIG, where
the buyer knows the secret key skb corresponding to pkb, and
the seller knows the secret key sks corresponding to pks.
Both parties are aware of a public key pkBS for BS, and the
seller knows the corresponding secret key skBS. Assume that
the signing protocol of BS consists of two messages, bsm1
and bsm2. Then, the buyers has some nonce sn that should
be signed (with respect to BS) by the seller. However, to get
11. In the context of protocol Sweep-UC, the user Alice will act as the
buyer, and the sweeper will have the role of the seller.
the signature, it should pay with a signature for a transaction
tx under the shared address (pkb, pks). More precisely, ﬁrst,
the buyer sends the ﬁrst message bsm1 of the blind signature
interaction. Then, both parties run an exchange protocol to
fairly exchange the message bsm2 for a signature (σb, σs)
on transaction tx.
Syntax. In our syntax, we assume that the parameters
xpar := (pkBS, bsm1, pkb, pks, tx) are known to the seller
and the buyer. Then, the seller ﬁrst sends a message xm1
to the buyer, which is computed using the ﬁrst message
bsm1 and the secret key skBS, and may already encapsulate
the second message bsm2 in some sense. Then, the buyer
responds with a message xm2. Now, the seller can derive
the signature σb from xm2. Whenever the seller publishes
(σb, σs), the buyer can derive a valid second message bsm2
from the transcript xm1, xm2 and (σb, σs).
Deﬁnition 1 (Exchange Protocol). Let SIG = (SIG.Gen,
SIG.Sig, SIG.Ver) be a digital signature scheme. Further,
let BS = (BS.Gen, BS.S, BS.U = (U1, U2), BS.Ver) be a
two-move blind signature scheme. An exchange protocol for
SIG and BS is a tuple of PPT algorithms EXC = (Setup,
Buy, Sell, Get) with the following syntax:
• Setup(xpar, skBS, sks) →(xm1, St) takes as input ex-
change parameters xpar, a secret key skBS, and a secret
key sks, and outputs a message xm1 and a state St.
• Buy(xpar, skb, xm1) →xm2 takes as input exchange pa-
rameters xpar, a secret key skb, and a message xm1, and
outputs a message xm2.
• Sell(St, xm2) →σb is deterministic, takes as input a state
St and a message xm2, and outputs a signature σb.
• Get(xpar, xm1, xm2, σb, σs)
→
bsm2 is deterministic,
takes as input parameters xpar, messages xm1 and xm2,
and signatures σb and σs, and outputs a message bsm2.
It is required that the following completeness property holds:
For all transactions tx, messages sn, keys (pkBS, skBS) ∈
BS.Gen(1λ), and all (pkb, skb) ∈SIG.Gen(1λ), (pks, sks) ∈
SIG.Gen(1λ), we have b1 = 1 and b2 = 1 with probability
1 in the following experiment:
(bsm1, St) ←U1(pkBS, sn),
xpar := (pkBS, bsm1, pkb, pks, tx),
(xm1, St) ←Setup(xpar, skBS, sks),
xm2 ←Buy(xpar, skb, xm1),
σb := Sell(St, xm2), σs ←Sig(sks, tx)
bsm2 := Get(xpar, xm1, xm2, σb, σs),
σBS ←U2(St, bsm2),
b1 := SIG.Ver(pkb, tx, σb), b2 := BS.Ver(pkBS, sn, σBS)
We require that an exchange protocol has well dis-
tributed signatures. That is, signatures on a transaction tx
obtained from the exchange protocol should be distributed
identically to freshly computed signatures. We postpone the
formal deﬁnition of this property to our full version [34],
Section 5.1.
Security. Next, we deﬁne security of such an exchange in a
game-based fashion. Informally, security should ensure that
the following two properties hold:
3829
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 22:14:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

1) Security Against Malicious Sellers: Without learning
xm2, the seller should not be able to derive a signature
on tx. The seller should only be able to derive a signature
for the given transaction tx. Finally, the seller should not
be able to derive a signature from which the buyer can
not derive a blind signature.
2) Security Against Malicious Buyers: The buyer should
only be able to learn blind signatures if the seller derived
a valid signature σb. We formalize this via simulators
that do not get skBS as input. Our deﬁnition captures
the intuition that the only information about skBS that
is revealed is bsm2, and this is only revealed once the
signatures σb, σs are published.
Intuitively, blindness of BS is preserved, even when running
in composition with such an exchange. The reason is that
the algorithms Buy, Get that are executed by the buyer do
not take the secret state St of the user U as input.
Deﬁnition 2 (Security Against Malicious Sellers). Let
EXC = (Setup, Buy, Sell, Get) be an exchange for SIG and
BS as in Deﬁnition 1. For any algorithm A, consider the
following game:
1) Run A and obtain a public key pkBS and a message sn.
2) Run (bsm1, St) ←U1(pkBS, sn).
3) Sample keys (pkb, skb) ←SIG.Gen(1λ).
4) Run A on input pkb and bsm1. Obtain pks, tx, and xm1
from A. Set xpar := (pkBS, bsm1, pkb, pks, tx).
5) If xm1 ̸= ⊥, run xm2 ←Buy(xpar, skb, xm1) and give
xm2 to A. Otherwise, give xm2 := ⊥to A.
6) Obtain tx′ and σb, σs from A and run bsm2 := Get(xpar,
xm1, xm2, σb, σs) and σBS ←U2(St, bsm2).
7) If SIG.Ver(pkb, tx′, σb) = 0 or SIG.Ver(pks, tx′, σs) = 0,
output 0.
8) Output 1 if one of the following holds, else output 0:
a) tx ̸= tx′.
b) tx = tx′ and xm2 = ⊥.
c) tx = tx′, xm2 ̸= ⊥, and BS.Ver(pkBS, sn, σBS) = 0.
We say that EXC is secure against malicious sellers, if for
all PPT algorithms A, the probability that the above game
outputs 1 is negligible.
Deﬁnition 3 (Security Against Malicious Buyers). Let
EXC = (Setup, Buy, Sell, Get) be an exchange for SIG and
BS as in Deﬁnition 1. For any algorithm A, algorithms
Sim1, SimRO, Sim2, Sim3, which may share state, observe
and program random oracles, and bit b ∈{0, 1}, consider
the following game:
1) Sample a key pair (pkBS, skBS) ←BS.Gen(1λ).
2) Let O be an oracle that takes as input bsm1 and returns
bsm2 ←BS.S(skBS, bsm1).
3) Run A on input pkBS with access to oracle O and an
interactive oracle O∗, which is deﬁned as follows:
a) Upon receiving a call, run (pks, sks) ←SIG.Gen(1λ)
and return pks.
b) Upon receiving a key pkb, a transaction tx, and
bsm1, set xpar := (pkBS, bsm1, pkb, pks, tx). If b =
0, run (xm1, St) ←Setup(xpar, skBS, sks). If b = 1,
run xm1 ←Sim1(xpar, sks). Return xm1.
c) Upon receiving xm2, run σs ←SIG.Sig(sks, tx).
If b = 0, run σb
:= Sell(St, xm2), and abort
if SIG.Ver(pkb, tx, σb)
=
0. If b
=
1, abort
if Sim2(xm2)
=
0. Otherwise, run bsm2
←
BS.S(skBS, bsm1) and σb ←Sim3(xm2, bsm2). Re-
turn σb, σs.
4) Obtain a bit b′ from A. Output b′.
We say that EXC is secure against malicious buyers,
if there are PPT algorithms Sim1, SimRO, Sim2, Sim3 as
above, such that for all PPT algorithms A the probability
that the game with b = 0 outputs 1 and the probability that
the game with b = 1 outputs 1 are negligibly close.
Toy Constructions. In our full version [34], Section 5.2, we
give two simple constructions of an exchange protocol. The
ﬁrst construction is for any unique signature scheme. The
second construction is for any signature scheme supporting
adaptor signatures. Their drawback is that we treat a random
oracle as a circuit, which has unclear security implications.
Constructions using Cut-and-Choose. We give two con-
crete constructions of an exchange protocol using a cut-and-
choose technique, avoiding the need to treat a random oracle
as a circuit.In the ﬁrst construction, the signature scheme
SIG = (SIG.Gen, SIG.Sig, SIG.Ver) is the BLS signature
scheme [30]. The second construction uses adaptor signa-
tures for a discrete logarithm relation. It is given in our full
version [34], Section 5.3. In both cases, the blind signature
scheme BS is the BLS blind signature scheme . It is deﬁned
over cyclic groups G1, G2, GT of prime order p with re-
spective generators g1 ∈G1, g2 ∈G2, and e(g1, g2) ∈GT ,
where e: G1 × G2 →GT is a pairing. Let ℓ= ℓ(λ) denote
an upper bound on the bit length of messages bsm2 sent in
signing interactions of BS. We make use of random oracles
H: {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}ℓand Hc : {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}λ. The
scheme is called EXCcc
BLS[SIG, BS] and given in Figure 2.
The security proofs are given in our full version [34],
Appendix B.
Lemma 1. Assuming the BLS signature scheme SIG is
EUF-CMA secure, the exchange protocol EXCcc
BLS[SIG, BS]
is secure against malicious sellers.
Lemma 2. Assuming the BLS signature scheme SIG is
EUF-CMA secure, the exchange protocol EXCcc
BLS[SIG, BS]
is secure against malicious buyers.
5.2. Redeem Protocol
We deﬁne the syntax and security of the redeem protocol
on the right. Later, we give concrete instantiations of it.
Setting. Informally, we consider the following scenario.
Assume that a service and a user12 are aware of a public key
pkBS for a blind signature scheme BS. The service holds the
corresponding secret key skBS. Further, the service published
a public key pks for signature scheme SIG, for which it
12. In the context of Sweep-UC, the user Alice will act as the user of
the redeem protocol, and the sweeper will have the role of the service.
3830
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 22:14:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Setup(xpar = (pkBS, bsm1, pkb, pks, tx), skBS, sks)
// Share bsm2 = bsmskBS
1
and σs
01 r1, . . . , rλ ←$ Zp, r′
1, . . . , r′
λ ←$ Zp
02 f(X) = skBS + Pλ
j=1 rj · Xj ∈Zp[X]
03 f ′(X) = sks + Pλ
j=1 r′
j · Xj ∈Zp[X]
04 for j ∈[2λ] : skBS,j := f(j), bsm2,j ←S(skBS,j, bsm1)
05 for j ∈[2λ] : sks,j := f ′(j), , σj ←SIG.Sig(sks,j, tx)
06 for j ∈[λ] : coeﬀj := g
rj
2 , coeﬀ′
j := g
r′
j
2
// Encrypt bsm2,j with σj
07 for j ∈[2λ] : ctj := H(σj) ⊕bsm2,j
// Cut-and-choose
08 xm1,1 := ((ctj)j∈[2λ], (coeﬀj, coeﬀ′
j)j∈[λ])
09 b0 . . . bλ−1 := Hc(xm1,1),
for j ∈[λ] : kj := 2j −bj−1
10 return (xm1 := (xm1,1, xm1,2 := (σkj)j∈[λ]), St := ⊥)
Buy(xpar, skb, xm1 = (xm1,1, xm1,2))
// Verify cut-and-choose
11 b0 . . . bλ−1 := Hc(xm1,1)
12 for j ∈[λ] :
13
kj := 2j −bj−1, pkBS,kj := pkBS · Qλ
i=1(coeﬀi)ki
j
14
pks,kj := pks · Qλ
i=1(coeﬀ′
i)ki
j
15
bsm2,kj := ctkj ⊕H(σkj)
16
if e(bsm1, pkBS,kj) ̸= e(bsm2,kj, g2) : return ⊥
17
if SIG.Ver(pks,kj, tx, σkj) = 0 : return ⊥
// Return a signature
18 return xm2 := σb ←SIG.Sig(skb, tx)
Sell(St, xm2 = σb)
19 if SIG.Ver(pkb, tx, σb) = 0 : return ⊥
20 return σb
Get(xpar = (pkBS, bsm1, pkb, pks, tx), xm1, xm2, σb, σs)
21 b0 . . . bλ−1 := Hc(xm1,1)
// Reconstruct all shares
22 for j ∈[λ] :
23
kj := 2j −bj−1, ¯kj := 2j −(1 −bj−1)
24
bsm2,kj := ctkj ⊕H(σkj)
// Find a valid share
25 w := 0
26 for j ∈[λ] :
27
σ ¯
kj := reconstg1,¯kj((0, σs), (ki, σki)i∈[λ])
28
bsm2,¯kj := ct¯kj ⊕H(σ¯kj)
29
pkBS,¯kj := pkBS · Q
i∈[λ](coeﬀi)
¯ki
j
30
if e(bsm1, pkBS,¯kj) = e(bsm2,¯kj, g2) : w := ¯kj
31 if w = 0 : return ⊥
// Reconstruct bsm2
32 bsm2 := reconstg1,0((w, bsm2,w), (kj, bsm2,kj)j∈[λ])
33 return bsm2
Promise(rpar, skBS, sks)
34 σs := H(tx)sks,
h := ˆH(sn),
s0 ←$ Zp, ct0 := hs0 · σs
// Share σBS and hs0
35 r1, . . . , rλ ←$ Zp, r′
0, . . . , r′
λ ←$ Zp, coeﬀ′
0 := gs0
1
36 f(X) := skBS + Pλ
j=1 rj · Xj
37 f ′(X) := s0 + Pλ
j=1 r′
j · Xj ∈Zp[X]
38 for j ∈[2λ] : skj := f(j), sj := f ′(j), σj := H(sn)skj
39 for j ∈[λ] : coeﬀj := g
rj
2 , coeﬀ′
j := g
r′
j
1
// Encrypt hsj with σj
40 for j ∈[2λ] : ctj := ˆH(sn, σj) · hsj
// Prove that ct0 is well-formed
41 t0, t1 ←$ Z∗
p, T0 := ht0 · H(tx)t1, T1 := gt0
1 , T2 := gt1
2
42 e := Hp(T0, T1, T2, h, H(tx), ct0, coeﬀ′
0, pks)
43 π0 := t0 + e · s0, π1 := t1 + e · sks
// Cut-and-choose
44 prom1 := (ct0, (ctj)j∈[2λ],
(π0, π1, e), coeﬀ′
0, (coeﬀj, coeﬀ′
j)j∈[λ])
45 b0 . . . bλ−1 := Hc(prom1),
for j ∈[λ] : kj := 2j −bj−1
46 return prom := (prom1, prom2 := (σkj, skj)j∈[λ])
VerPromise(rpar, prom = (prom1, prom2 = (σBS,kj, skj)j∈[λ]))
47 h := ˆH(sn), b0 . . . bλ−1 := Hc(prom1)
// Verify cut-and-choose
48 for j ∈[λ] :
49
kj := 2j −bj−1, pkBS,kj := pkBS · Qλ
i=1(coeﬀj)ki
j
50
if ctkj ̸= ˆH(sn, σkj) · h
skj ∨g
skj
1
̸= Qλ
i=0(coeﬀ′
j)ki
j :
51
return 0
52
if BS.Ver(pkBS,kj, sn, σkj) = 0 : return 0
// Verify that ct0 is well-formed
53 ˆT0 := hπ0 · H(tx)π1 · ct−e
0
54 ˆT1 := gπ0
1
· (coeﬀ′
0)−e, ˆT2 := gπ1
2
· (pks)−e
55 if e ̸= Hp( ˆT0, ˆT1, ˆT2, h, H(tx), ct0, coeﬀ′
0, pks) : return 0
56 return 1
Redeem(rpar, prom = (prom1, prom2), σBS)
57 h := ˆH(sn), b0 . . . bλ−1 := Hc(prom1)
// Reconstruct all shares
58 for j ∈[λ] :
59
kj := 2j −bj−1, ¯kj := 2j −(1 −bj−1), hkj := h
skj
60
σ¯kj := reconstg1,¯kj((0, σBS), (kj, σki)i∈[λ])
61 h¯kj := ct¯kj/ˆH(sn, σ¯kj)
// Try to decrypt ct0
62 for j ∈[λ] :
63
h0 := reconstg1,0((¯kj, h¯kj), (ki, hki)i∈[λ]), σs := ct0/h0
64
if SIG.Ver(pks, tx, σs) = 1 : return σs
65 return ⊥
Figure 2. Left: The exchange protocol EXCcc
BLS[SIG, BS] = (Setup, Buy, Sell, Get). Here, H : {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}ℓand Hc : {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}λ are
random oracles and and e : G1 × G2 →GT is a pairing. Right: The redeem protocol RPcc
BLS[SIG, BS] = (Promise, VerPromise, Redeem). Here,
H : {0, 1}∗→G1, Hc : {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}λ, Hp : {0, 1}∗→Z∗
p and ˆH : {0, 1}∗→G1 are random oracles. In both: SIG is the BLS signature scheme,
BLS signature scheme BS is the blind BLS signature scheme.
3831
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 22:14:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

knows a secret key sks. Additionally, both parties agreed on
a transaction tx and a message sn. Then, the goal of both
parties is to move towards a state, in which the user can use
a blind signature σBS that is valid for message sn and key
pkBS, to obtain a signature σs which is valid for tx under key
pks. This transformation of σBS into σs should be possible
without any further interaction with the service. Moreover,
the service wants to ensure that without knowing the blind
signature σBS, it should not be possible to obtain σs. In
other words, both parties want to run a protocol such that
afterwards, the user is able to turn in σBS non-interactively
and get a signature σs on the transaction tx for it.
Syntax. In our syntax, we assume that the parameters
rpar := (pkBS, pks, tx, sn) are known to both parties. The
service ﬁrst sends a promise message prom. This message
can be veriﬁed by the user using the public key pkBS.
Intuitively, this veriﬁcation step should guarantee that the
user can be sure to obtain a valid signature σs from prom
as soon as it knows σBS. Finally, the user can use σBS and
prom to derive the signature σs on the transaction tx.
Deﬁnition 4 (Redeem Protocol). Let SIG = (SIG.Gen,
SIG.Sig, SIG.Ver) be a digital signature scheme and BS =
(BS.Gen, BS.S, BS.U, BS.Ver) be a two-move blind signa-
ture scheme. A redeem protocol for SIG and BS is a tuple
RP = (Promise, VerPromise, Redeem) of PPT algorithms
with the following syntax:
• Promise(rpar, skBS, sks) →prom takes as input redeem
parameters rpar, a secret key skBS, a secret key sks, and
outputs a promise message prom.
• VerPromise(rpar, prom) →b is deterministic, takes as
input redeem parameters rpar, and a promise message
prom, and outputs a bit b ∈{0, 1}.
• Redeem(rpar, prom, σBS) →σs takes as input redeem pa-
rameters rpar, a promise message prom, and a signature
σBS, and outputs a signature σs.
We require the following completeness property: For all
transactions tx, all messages sn, all keys (pkBS, skBS) ∈
BS.Gen(1λ), all (pks, sks) ∈SIG.Gen(1λ), we have b1 = 1
and b2 = 1 with probability 1 in the following experiment:
rpar := (pkBS, pks, tx, sn),
prom ←Promise(rpar, skBS, sks),
σBS ←BS.Sig(skBS, sn),
σs ←Redeem(rpar, prom, σBS),
b1 := VerPromise(rpar, prom),
b2 := SIG.Ver(pks, tx, σs)
Security. Next, we deﬁne security of such a redeem protocol
in a game-based fashion. Informally, security should ensure
that the following two properties hold:
1) Security Against Malicious Users: If a user can turn prom
into a valid signature σs, then it must have known a valid
blind signature σBS. Further, the message prom should
not reveal anything about skBS.
2) Security Against Malicious Services: If the user gets
message prom and the veriﬁcation of it outputs 1, it can
be sure that it can also derive a valid signature σs from
it, using a valid blind signature σBS.
Deﬁnition 5 (Security Against Malicious Users). Suppose
that RP = (Promise, VerPromise, Redeem) is a redeem
protocol for SIG and BS as in Deﬁnition 4.
Simulatability. For any algorithm A, and algorithms Sim,
SimRO, which may share state, and bit b ∈{0, 1}, consider
the following game:
1) Sample keys (pkBS, skBS) ←BS.Gen(1λ) and initialize
an empty list DSpend.
2) Let O be an oracle that on input sn does the following:
a) If sn ∈DSpend, abort. Otherwise, insert sn into
DSpend.
b) Sample keys (pks, sks) ←SIG.Gen(1λ), output pks.
c) Receive tx and set rpar := (pkBS, pks, tx, sn).
d) If b = 0, run prom ←Promise(rpar, skBS, sks). If
b = 1, run prom ←Sim(rpar, sks).
e) Return prom.
3) Run A on input pkBS, skBS with access to oracle O and
obtain a bit b′. During A’s execution, if b = 0, provide a
random oracle to A honestly via lazy sampling. If b = 1,
use algorithm SimRO to provide the random oracle.
4) Output b′.
We say that (Sim, SimRO) is a simulator against malicious
users for RP, if for all PPT algorithms A the probability
that the game with b = 0 outputs 1 and the probability that
the game with b = 1 outputs 1 are negligibly close.
Extractability. Further, for any algorithm A, and algorithms
Sim, SimRO, Ext, which may share state, consider the fol-
lowing game:
1) Sample keys (pkBS, skBS) ←BS.Gen(1λ) and initialize
an empty list DSpend and set bad := 0.
2) Let O be an interactive oracle that on input sn does the
following:
a) If sn ∈DSpend, abort. Otherwise, add sn to DSpend.
b) Sample keys (pks, sks) ←SIG.Gen(1λ), output pks.
c) Receive tx and set rpar := (pkBS, pks, tx, sn).
d) Run prom ←Sim(rpar, sks) and output prom.
e) Get σs as input and run σBS ←Ext(rpar, sks, σs).
f) If
BS.Ver(pkBS, sn, σBS)
=
0
and
SIG.Ver(pks, tx, σs) = 1, set bad := 1.
3) Run A on input pkBS, skBS with access to oracle O.
During A’s execution, use algorithm SimRO to provide
the random oracle.
4) Output bad.
We say that Ext is an extractor against malicious users for
RP and (Sim, SimRO), if for all PPT algorithms A, the
probability that the game outputs 1 is negligible.
Security. Finally, we say that RP is secure against malicious
users, if there are algorithms Sim, SimRO, Ext as above,
such that the pair (Sim, SimRO) is a simulator against
malicious users for RP and Ext is a an extractor against
malicious users for RP and (Sim, SimRO).
Deﬁnition 6 (Security Against Malicious Services). Let
RP = (Promise, VerPromise, Redeem) be a redeem protocol
3832
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 22:14:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

for SIG and BS as in Deﬁnition 4. For any algorithm A and
any algorithm Ext, consider the following game:
1) Run A and obtain pks, tx, sn, pkBS and a message prom
in return. Set rpar := (pkBS, pks, tx, sn).
2) If VerPromise(rpar, prom) = 0, return 0.
3) Run σBS ←Ext(rpar, prom, Q), where Q is the list of
random oracle queries that A made.
4) If BS.Ver(pkBS, sn, σBS) = 0, return 1.
5) Compute σs ←Redeem(rpar, prom, σBS).
6) If SIG.Ver(pks, tx, σs) = 0, return 1 and 0 otherwise.
We say that RP is secure against malicious services, if there
is a PPT algorithm Ext, such that for all PPT algorithms
A, the probability that the game outputs 1 is negligible.
Toy Construction. We generically construct a redeem proto-
col for any signature scheme and any unique blind signature
scheme. The drawback of this scheme is that it uses proofs
about relations deﬁned by random oracles. We postpone the
details to our full version [34], Section 6.2.
Constructions using Cut-and-Choose. We give two con-
structions of a redeem protocol without relying on proof
systems that argue about the random oracle. For the ﬁrst
construction we assume that the signature scheme is the BLS
signature scheme SIG deﬁned over cyclic groups G1, G2, GT
of prime order p with respective generators g1 ∈G1, g2 ∈
G2, and e(g1, g2) ∈GT . The second construction works
with a Schnorr signature SIG and is postponed to our full
version [34], Section 6.3. In both cases we use the BLS
blind signature scheme. Both signature schemes use the
random oracle H: {0, 1}∗→G1, as the oracle for the BLS
and blind BLS signature. We let Hc : {0, 1}∗→{0, 1}λ,
ˆH : {0, 1}∗→G1, and Hp : {0, 1}∗→Z∗
p be random
oracles. The resulting scheme RPcc
BLS[SIG, BS] is given in
Figure 2. The security proofs are given in our full ver-
sion [34], Appendix C.
Lemma
3.
If
BS
has
unique
signatures,
then
RPcc
BLS[SIG, BS] is secure against malicious services.
Lemma 4. If BLS signature scheme SIG is EUF-CMA se-
cure, the DDH assumption holds in G1, then RPcc
BLS[SIG, BS]
is secure against malicious users.
6. Sweep-UC: The Complete Protocol
Here, we formally present our protocol Sweep-UC that
realizes Fux for a ledger functionality LSIG for signature
scheme SIG = (SIG.Gen, SIG.Sig, SIG.Ver). The protocol is
parameterized by amt ∈N and T ∈N.
Setup. Assume that BS = (BS.Gen, BS.S, BS.U, BS.Ver) is
a two-move13 blind signature scheme. Let EXC = (Setup,
Buy, Sell, Get) be an exchange protocol and RP = (Promise,
VerPromise, Redeem) be a redeem protocol for SIG and
BS. Our protocol makes use of the functionality Fs. Ac-
cordingly, we describe our protocol in the (LSIG, Fs)-
hybrid model. At setup time, a key pair (pkBS, skBS) ←
13. We only assume two moves for simplicity of exposition. The con-
struction can naturally be generalized to more moves.
BS.Gen(1λ) is generated. The sweeper W is initialized with
skBS. All parties are initialized with the corresponding pub-
lic key pkBS. Further, W holds a secret key skW for public
key pkW for signature scheme SIG, and lists Reg, DSpend,
which are initially empty.
Protocol.
We
now
verbally
describe
the
protocol
Sweep-UC. An overview of our protocol can be found in
Figure 7. The sub-protocols are given in Figures 4,5, and 6.
We assume that the three parts of the protocol are executed
in the correct order, i.e. ﬁrst a party P registers, then a
payment is added and then P gets the payment. If the
parts of the protocol are called in any different order, then
the execution aborts. Also, if any party expects to receive
a certain message and does not receive it, the execution
aborts. Finally, we assume that communication between
W and P is done via a secure channel. Furthermore, we
assume that EXC and RP make use of different random
oracles. This can easily be achieved using proper preﬁxing
for domain separation.
Register(pkb): We describe the sub-protocol as an inter-
action between a party P and the sweeper W.
1) Sampling a Random Nonce: Party P samples a random
nonce sn ←$ {0, 1}λ and sends sn, pkb to W.
2) Opening a Shared Address: Then, W aborts if sn ∈
DSpend or pkb ∈Reg. Otherwise, it adds these entries to
the respective lists. Then, it calls Fs.OpenSh(T, pkW, P,
amt, skW). As a result, W obtains ( ¯pkr,W, ¯pkr,P, ¯skr,W)
from Fs and P obtains ( ¯pkr,W, ¯pkr,P, ¯skr,P) from Fs.
3) Making
a
Promise:
Both
parties
P
and
W
set
txr
:=
( ¯pkr,W, ¯pkr,P, pkb, amt). Also, both set the
redeem
parameters
rpar
:=
(pkBS, ¯pkr,W, txr, sn).
Then, W
computes a promise message prom
←
Promise(rpar, skBS, ¯skr,W) and sends prom to P.
4) Verifying
the
Promise:
P
runs
b
:=
VerPromise(rpar, prom). If b
=
0, it aborts the
entire execution.
AddPayment(pka, ska, pkb): We describe the sub-protocol
as an interaction between a party P and the sweeper W. In
this sub-protocol, P uses an anonymous secure channel to
communicate with W.
1) Challenge: Party P runs (bsm1, St) ←BS.U1(pkBS, sn).
It sends bsm1 to W.
2) Opening a Shared Address: Then, P calls Fs.OpenSh(T,
pka, W, amt, ska). As a result, W obtains ( ¯pkl,P, ¯pkl,W,
¯skl,W) and P obtains ( ¯pkl,P, ¯pkl,W, ¯skl,P).
3) Running the Exchange: Both parties deﬁne a transac-
tion txl := ( ¯pkl,P, ¯pkl,W, pkW, amt) and exchange pa-
rameters xpar := (pkBS, bsm1, ¯pkl,P, ¯pkl,W, txl). Then,
the
sweeper
runs
(xm1, St)
←
Setup(xpar, skBS,
¯skl,W). It sends xm1 to P. Then, P runs xm2
←
Buy(xpar, ¯skl,P, xm1) and sends xm2 to W. Then, W
runs σl,P := Sell(St, xm2). Additionally, W computes
σl,W ←SIG.Sig( ¯skl,W, txl).
4) Closing the Shared Address: W calls Fs.CloseSh( ¯pkl,P,
¯pkl,W, pkW, amt, σl,P, σl,W).
Then,
P
receives
(“closedSharedAddress”, ¯pkl,P, ¯pkl,W, pkW, amt,
3833
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 22:14:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

σl,P, σl,W) from Fs. Finally, it computes message
bsm2 := Get(xpar, xm1, xm2, σl,P, σl,W) and the blind
signature σBS ←BS.U2(St, bsm2).
GetPayment(pkb):
With
the
variable
names
from
Register(pkb), party P runs σr,W
←
Redeem(rpar,
prom, σBS), where σBS was computed in AddPayment(pka,
ska, pkb). It also computes σr,P ←SIG.Sig( ¯skr,P, txr).
Then, it closes the shared address by calling the interface
Fs.CloseSh( ¯pkr,W, ¯pkr,P, pkb, amt, σr,W, σr,P).
As
a
result, W receives (“closedSharedAddress”, ¯pkr,W, ¯pkr,P,
pkb, amt, σr,W, σr,P) from Fs. It removes pkb from Reg.
Security. We informally argue why Sweep-UC satisﬁes
security for users, security for the sweeper, and user unlink-
ability. A formal analysis in the UC model can be found in
the full version [34], Appendix D. Security for users follows
from the security of the exchange protocol and the security
of the redeem protocol. Namely, there are two ways the user
can lose coins when interacting with W. First, assume the
user does not get a blind signature from the interaction in the
exchange protocol, although W is able to close the shared
address. This means that the sweeper broke the security
of the exchange protocol. Second, assume the user did
obtain a valid blind signature using the exchange protocol
but can not derive a valid signature to close the shared
address related to the redeem protocol. In this case, the
sweeper broke the security of the redeem protocol. Security
for the sweeper can be broken if users close more shared
addresses related to the redeem protocol than the sweeper
closes shared addresses related to the exchange protocol.
The security of the exchange protocol guarantees that users
only learn a blind signature if the sweeper closes the shared
address. The security of the redeem protocol guarantees that
users need a blind signature to close the shared address. In
a case where users stole coins from the sweeper, they would
have learned more blind signatures than they obtained. Due
to the usage of the list DSpend, all of these are valid for
different messages, and users must have broken one-more
unforgeability of BS. Finally, unlinkability follows from the
blindness of BS and the use of an anonymous channel. We
remark that without an anonymous channel, the atomicity of
the swap would not be affected, but the sweeper could link
a payment on the left and on the right simply because it is
interacting with the same party, or IP address in practice.
7. Discussion
Here, we discuss practical aspects of the system, efﬁ-
ciency, and potential extensions of our protocol.
DoS Attacks. Note that for every user that registers anony-
mously, the sweeper has to freeze a certain amount of its
coins for a while. Without additional measures, this can lead
to a form of Denial-of-Service attacks, called grieﬁng at-
tacks. To mitigate these attacks, we can employ the standard
blind registration based technique from [14]. This technique
ensures that the sweeper only locks coins if there is a user
locking the same amount of coins. This way, the attacker
has to lock the same amount of coins as the sweeper to
launch such a DoS attack.
Exchange Rates. We envisage a system running our pro-
tocol to announce exchange rates for every supported pair
of currencies for a period of time. During this time, all
transactions have to respect this rate. To ensure anonymity,
the system only allows swaps of ﬁxed denominations, e.g.,
one coin of currency A for x coins of currency B, where x
is determined by the exchange rate.
Asymptotic Efﬁciency. Both the communication and com-
putational complexity of our protocol are dominated by the
exchange and redeem protocols. In terms of computation,
naively looking at the pseudocode results in O(λ) hash
evaluations and pairings, but O(λ3) group operations in the
worst-case. These are caused by λ evaluations of algorithm
reconst (see Figure 2, Line 63). We can signiﬁcantly reduce
this to O(λ2) operations using preprocessing techniques, as
explained in our full version [34], Appendix F. Further,
cut-and-choose is naturally highly parallelizable. We are
conﬁdent that there are other optimizations to further reduce
the concrete number of operations. For communication, it
is easy to see that O(λ) group elements are sent over the
network.
On-Chain Costs. To measure on-chain costs, the typical
metric is to evaluate the transaction fee associated with all
transactions that appear on-chain as part of the protocol.
Sweep-UC’s on-chain transactions are minimal and in line
with the transactions of A2L [14] and A2L+ [26] that are
state of the art. On a successful execution, we have four
transactions with standard signature veriﬁcation scripts that
go on chain. In contrast, Tumblebit (a prior work) uses
HTLC scripts in its transactions, which are more expensive
in terms of transaction fees than transactions with regular
signature veriﬁcation scripts.
Communication. In Table 3, we give estimations of the
communication complexity of our protocol.For our esti-
mation, we assume curve BLS12-381 for BLS and curve
secp256k1 for Schnorr. The communication does not include
communication with the chain, as this is speciﬁc to the cur-
rency that is used and should be negligible compared to the
other costs. We see that for all combinations, communication
cost is low, namely, less than 80 kilobytes.
Experimental Evaluation. To show efﬁciency in practice,
we implemented an unoptimized prototype. As the run-
ning time of the protocol is dominated by the algorithms
of the redeem and exchange protocols, we implemented
those. Concretely, we focused on the Schnorr variant of
our cut-and-choose approach with λ = 128 in combination
with the BLS blind signature scheme. Other cut-and-choose
variants of our algorithms should be equally practical. We
based our prototype on the Chia-Network implementation
of the BLS12-381 curve14. The Chia-Network BLS12-381
library uses C++-based shared libraries and Python bind-
ing. Additionally, we implemented the prototype to execute
certain algorithm parts in parallel. We used the Python
14. See https://github.com/Chia-Network/bls-signatures
3834
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 22:14:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

EXC.
Setup
Buy
Get (HC)
Get (WC)
0.82
5.3
0.35
13.5
RP.
Promise
VerPromise
Redeem (HC)
Redeem (WC)
0.53
5.16
0.21
25.5
TABLE 2. EXECUTION TIME IN SECONDS AVERAGED OVER 100 TESTS
FOR OUR SCHNORR CUT-AND-CHOOSE VARIANT. FOR EXC.Get AND
RP.Redeem, THE HONEST CASE (HC), AND THE WORST CASE FOR A
MALICIOUS SWEEPER (WC) IS PRESENTED.
Left
Right
Comm. Left
Comm. Right
Comm. Total
BLS
BLS
43
31
74
Schnorr
BLS
33
31
64
BLS
Schnorr
43
35
78
Schnorr
Schnorr
33
35
68
TABLE 3. COMMUNICATION COMPLEXITY FOR OUR PROTOCOL
Sweep-UC INSTANTIATED WITH OUR CUT-AND-CHOOSE
CONSTRUCTIONS WITH PARAMETER λ = 128. COMMUNICATION IS
GIVEN IN KILOBYTES.
multiprocessing module for this. We applied paral-
lelism only to implement EXC.Buy and RP.VerPromise
algorithms. Others can potentially only beneﬁt from this,
and we leave a further optimized implementation for future
work. We evaluated our implementation on a MacbookPro
with Intel i7@2.3 GHz and 16 GB RAM. The Intel i7 has
four physical cores, so we used 16 workers at a time for the
parallel execution. Our results are presented in Table 2. The
table shows average running times over 100 tests. These
results clearly indicate that our solution is practical. For
example, the sweeper can set up an exchange (algorithm
EXC.Setup) and create a promise (algorithm RP.Promise)
in less than a second. Naturally, we expect that sweeper will
be executed on a powerful server, signiﬁcantly reducing this
time. On the user side, the most time-consuming operations
are algorithms EXC.Buy and RP.VerPromise, i.e., verifying
the cut-and-choose. Both take around 5 seconds. We expect
that this can be optimized further. Also, note that in the case
of an honest sweeper, algorithms EXC.Get and RP.Redeem
terminate early and take less time (less than a second) than
for a malicious sweeper.
Redeem for Arbitrary Signatures Scheme. In Section 5.2
we presented two redeem protocols based on a cut-and-
choose technique, where the signature scheme SIG was in-
stantiated respectively using BLS and Schnorr. On the other
hand, our generic redeem protocol supports any signature
scheme. We will brieﬂy discuss how to achieve the same for
cut-and-choose. The idea is similar to hybrid encryption. In
this regard, we will use the BLS-based redeem protocol.
Recall that at the end of the protocol, one gets a BLS
signature for tx that is valid with respect to public key
pks. We will now treat this signature as a secret key for an
identity-based encryption (IBE) scheme [41] and add IBE
ciphertexts to the promise. This particular construction for
BLS was recently proposed by D¨ottling et al. [42] and called
signature witness encryption (SWE). The primitive they
propose allows encrypting an arbitrary message, proving
any statement about the message using Bulletproofs [43],
and using a BLS signature as the secret witness that can
be used to decrypt. Equipped with SWE we can encrypt
a signature for SIG, prove that the ciphertext is consistent,
and then use the BLS-based redeem protocol to redeem the
witness used to decrypt the SWE.
Future Work. As our framework is modular, one can extend
our results by providing exchange and redeem protocols.
This includes efﬁciency improvements or supporting other
transaction signature scheme, e.g. post-quantum schemes.
Another direction for future work is to practically implement
and further optimize the concrete efﬁciency of our protocol.
8. Conclusion
We introduced Sweep-UC, a UC secure protocol for
unlinkable exchanges across different cryptocurrencies us-
ing a central, but untrusted, party called the sweeper. Our
construction is modular using two new protocols as building
blocks: An exchange protocol and a redeem protocol. We
instantiate these protocols for currencies relying on adaptor
signatures such as Schnorr or ECDSA and for currencies
relying on BLS signatures, whereas previous protocols only
supported the adaptor setting. In our instantiations, we avoid
treating the random oracle as a circuit using a novel cut-and-
choose approach. Finally, we demonstrated the practicality
of our protocol.
References
[1]
M. Herlihy, “Atomic cross-chain swaps,” 2018.
[2]
“What
is
atomic
swap
and
how
to
im-
plement
it,”
https://www.axiomadev.com/blog/
what-is-atomic-swap-and-how-to-implement-it/,
2019,
accessed:
2023-04-11.
[3]
G. Malavolta, P. Moreno-Sanchez, A. Kate, M. Maffei, and S. Ravi,
“Concurrency and privacy with payment-channel networks,” in ACM
CCS 2017, B. M. Thuraisingham, D. Evans, T. Malkin, and D. Xu,
Eds.
ACM Press, Oct. / Nov. 2017, pp. 455–471.
[4]
“Uniswap,” https://uniswap.org/whitepaper.pdf, 2020, accessed: 2023-
04-11.
[5]
“Raiden network,” https://raiden.network/, 2022, accessed: 2023-04-
11.
[6]
C. Baum, B. David, and T. K. Frederiksen, “P2DEX: Privacy-
preserving decentralized cryptocurrency exchange,” in ACNS 21,
Part I, ser. LNCS, K. Sako and N. O. Tippenhauer, Eds., vol. 12726.
Springer, Heidelberg, Jun. 2021, pp. 163–194.
[7]
I. Bentov, Y. Ji, F. Zhang, L. Breidenbach, P. Daian, and A. Juels,
“Tesseract: Real-time cryptocurrency exchange using trusted hard-
ware,” in ACM CCS 2019, L. Cavallaro, J. Kinder, X. Wang, and
J. Katz, Eds.
ACM Press, Nov. 2019, pp. 1521–1538.
[8]
R. W. F. Lai, V. Ronge, T. Rufﬁng, D. Schr¨oder, S. A. K. Thyagarajan,
and J. Wang, “Omniring: Scaling private payments without trusted
setup,” in ACM CCS 2019, L. Cavallaro, J. Kinder, X. Wang, and
J. Katz, Eds.
ACM Press, Nov. 2019, pp. 31–48.
[9]
“Understanding
bitcoin
fungibility,”
https://river.com/learn/
bitcoin-fungibility/, 2022, accessed: 2023-04-11.
3835
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 22:14:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

[10] S. A. K. Thyagarajan, G. Malavolta, and P. Moreno-Sanchez, “Univer-
sal atomic swaps: Secure exchange of coins across all blockchains,”
in 2022 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy.
IEEE Computer
Society Press, May 2022, pp. 1299–1316.
[11] A. Erwig, S. Faust, K. Host´akov´a, M. Maitra, and S. Riahi, “Two-
party adaptor signatures from identiﬁcation schemes,” in PKC 2021,
Part I, ser. LNCS, J. Garay, Ed., vol. 12710.
Springer, Heidelberg,
May 2021, pp. 451–480.
[12] “Chia network faq,” https://www.chia.net/faq/, 2022, accessed: 2023-
04-11.
[13] E. Heilman, L. Alshenibr, F. Baldimtsi, A. Scafuro, and S. Goldberg,
“TumbleBit: An untrusted bitcoin-compatible anonymous payment
hub,” in NDSS 2017.
The Internet Society, Feb. / Mar. 2017.
[14] E. Tairi, P. Moreno-Sanchez, and M. Maffei, “A2L: Anonymous
atomic locks for scalability in payment channel hubs,” in 2021 IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy.
IEEE Computer Society Press,
May 2021, pp. 1834–1851.
[15] X. Qin, S. Pan, A. Mirzaei, Z. Sui, O. Ersoy, A. Sakzad, M. F.
Esgin, J. K. Liu, J. Yu, and T. H. Yuen, “BlindHub: Bitcoin-
compatible privacy-preserving payment channel hubs supporting vari-
able amounts,” Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2022/1735, 2022,
https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/1735.
[16] M. Ober, S. Katzenbeisser, and K. Hamacher, “Structure and
anonymity of the bitcoin transaction graph,” Future internet, vol. 5,
no. 2, pp. 237–250, 2013.
[17] M. Santamaria Ortega, “The bitcoin transaction graph anonymity,”
2013.
[18] F. Reid and M. Harrigan, “An analysis of anonymity in the bitcoin
system,” in Security and privacy in social networks.
Springer, 2013,
pp. 197–223.
[19] D. Ron and A. Shamir, “Quantitative analysis of the full bitcoin trans-
action graph,” in International Conference on Financial Cryptography
and Data Security.
Springer, 2013, pp. 6–24.
[20] M. M¨oser, K. Soska, E. Heilman, K. Lee, H. Heffan, S. Srivastava,
K. Hogan, J. Hennessey, A. Miller, A. Narayanan et al., “An empirical
analysis of traceability in the monero blockchain,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1704.04299, 2017.
[21] “Digital
currency
donations
for
freedom
convoy
evading
seizure
by
authorities,”
https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/ottawa/
freedom-convoy-cryptocurrency-asset-seizure-1.6389601,
2022,
accessed: 2023-04-11.
[22] “CoinJoin - Bitcoin Forum,” https://bitcointalk.org/?topic=279249,
2013, accessed: 2023-04-11.
[23] T. Rufﬁng, P. Moreno-Sanchez, and A. Kate, “CoinShufﬂe: Practical
decentralized coin mixing for bitcoin,” in ESORICS 2014, Part II,
ser. LNCS, M. Kutylowski and J. Vaidya, Eds., vol. 8713.
Springer,
Heidelberg, Sep. 2014, pp. 345–364.
[24] ——,
“P2P
mixing
and
unlinkable
bitcoin
transactions,”
in
NDSS 2017.
The Internet Society, Feb. / Mar. 2017.
[25] E. Ben-Sasson, A. Chiesa, C. Garman, M. Green, I. Miers, E. Tromer,
and M. Virza, “Zerocash: Decentralized anonymous payments from
bitcoin,” in 2014 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy.
IEEE
Computer Society Press, May 2014, pp. 459–474.
[26] N. Glaeser, M. Maffei, G. Malavolta, P. Moreno-Sanchez, E. Tairi,
and S. A. K. Thyagarajan, “Foundations of coin mixing services,” in
ACM CCS 2022, H. Yin, A. Stavrou, C. Cremers, and E. Shi, Eds.
ACM Press, Nov. 2022, pp. 1259–1273.
[27] J. Groth, “Rerandomizable and replayable adaptive chosen ciphertext
attack secure cryptosystems,” in TCC 2004, ser. LNCS, M. Naor, Ed.,
vol. 2951.
Springer, Heidelberg, Feb. 2004, pp. 152–170.
[28] R. Canetti, “Universally composable security: A new paradigm for
cryptographic protocols,” in 42nd FOCS.
IEEE Computer Society
Press, Oct. 2001, pp. 136–145.
[29] S. A. K. Thyagarajan, A. Bhat, G. Malavolta, N. D¨ottling, A. Kate,
and D. Schr¨oder, “Veriﬁable timed signatures made practical,” in ACM
CCS 2020, J. Ligatti, X. Ou, J. Katz, and G. Vigna, Eds. ACM Press,
Nov. 2020, pp. 1733–1750.
[30] D. Boneh, B. Lynn, and H. Shacham, “Short signatures from the Weil
pairing,” in ASIACRYPT 2001, ser. LNCS, C. Boyd, Ed., vol. 2248.
Springer, Heidelberg, Dec. 2001, pp. 514–532.
[31] D.
Chaum,
“Blind
signatures
for
untraceable
payments,”
in
CRYPTO’82, D. Chaum, R. L. Rivest, and A. T. Sherman, Eds.
Plenum Press, New York, USA, 1982, pp. 199–203.
[32] E. Heilman, F. Baldimtsi, and S. Goldberg, “Blindly signed contracts:
Anonymous on-blockchain and off-blockchain bitcoin transactions,”
in FC 2016 Workshops, ser. LNCS, J. Clark, S. Meiklejohn, P. Y. A.
Ryan, D. S. Wallach, M. Brenner, and K. Rohloff, Eds., vol. 9604.
Springer, Heidelberg, Feb. 2016, pp. 43–60.
[33] G. Malavolta, P. Moreno-Sanchez, C. Schneidewind, A. Kate, and
M. Maffei, “Anonymous multi-hop locks for blockchain scalability
and interoperability,” in NDSS 2019.
The Internet Society, Feb.
2019.
[34] L. Hanzlik, J. Loss, S. A. Thyagarajan, and B. Wagner, “Sweep-
UC: Swapping coins privately,” Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report
2022/1605, 2022, https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/1605.
[35] A. Shamir, “How to share a secret,” Communications of the Associ-
ation for Computing Machinery, vol. 22, no. 11, pp. 612–613, Nov.
1979.
[36] J. Katz, U. Maurer, B. Tackmann, and V. Zikas, “Universally compos-
able synchronous computation,” in TCC 2013, ser. LNCS, A. Sahai,
Ed., vol. 7785.
Springer, Heidelberg, Mar. 2013, pp. 477–498.
[37] S. Dziembowski, L. Eckey, and S. Faust, “FairSwap: How to fairly
exchange digital goods,” in ACM CCS 2018, D. Lie, M. Mannan,
M. Backes, and X. Wang, Eds.
ACM Press, Oct. 2018, pp. 967–
984.
[38] S. A. K. Thyagarajan and G. Malavolta, “Lockable signatures for
blockchains: Scriptless scripts for all signatures,” in 2021 IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy.
IEEE Computer Society Press,
May 2021, pp. 937–954.
[39] R. Canetti, A. Jain, and A. Scafuro, “Practical UC security with a
global random oracle,” in ACM CCS 2014, G.-J. Ahn, M. Yung, and
N. Li, Eds.
ACM Press, Nov. 2014, pp. 597–608.
[40] J. Camenisch, M. Drijvers, T. Gagliardoni, A. Lehmann, and
G. Neven, “The wonderful world of global random oracles,” in
EUROCRYPT 2018, Part I, ser. LNCS, J. B. Nielsen and V. Rijmen,
Eds., vol. 10820.
Springer, Heidelberg, Apr. / May 2018, pp. 280–
312.
[41] D. Boneh and M. K. Franklin, “Identity-based encryption from the
Weil pairing,” in CRYPTO 2001, ser. LNCS, J. Kilian, Ed., vol. 2139.
Springer, Heidelberg, Aug. 2001, pp. 213–229.
[42] N. D¨ottling, L. Hanzlik, B. Magri, and S. Wohnig, “McFly: Veriﬁable
encryption to the future made practical,” Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Report 2022/433, 2022, https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/433.
[43] B. B¨unz, J. Bootle, D. Boneh, A. Poelstra, P. Wuille, and G. Maxwell,
“Bulletproofs: Short proofs for conﬁdential transactions and more,”
in 2018 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy.
IEEE Computer
Society Press, May 2018, pp. 315–334.
3836
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 22:14:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Functionality Fux
The functionality interacts with parties P1, . . . , Pn, W, ideal adversary S and functionality LSIG. It is parameterized by a digital signature scheme
SIG = (Gen, Sig, Ver) A key pkW for party W is given. It is parameterized by amt ∈N, T ∈N. It holds lists Reg, Pay.
Interface Register(pkb), called by Pi:
01 Send (“register”, Pi, pkb) to S. If W is corrupted, receive message m1 from S.
02 If m1 = “abort”, send “fail” and return.
03 If (Pi, pkb) is already in Reg, send “failDoubleRegister” and return.
04 Call LSIG.Freeze(pkW, amt) and receive m in return. If m = (“nofunds”, pkW, amt), send “failNoFunds” and return.
05 Append (Pi, pkb) to Reg.
06 Send (“registered”, Pi, pkb) to S. If W is corrupted, obtain m2 in return. If m2 = “abort”, remove (Pi, pkb) from Reg, send “fail” and
return.
07 After T clock cycles: If the entry (Pi, pkb) is still in Reg, then call LSIG.Unfreeze(pkW, amt) and delete the entry from Reg.
Interface AddPayment(pka, ska, pkb), called by Pi:
01 If Pi is not corrupted, and (Pi, pkb) is not in Reg, send “failNotRegistered” and return.
02 If (pka, ska) /∈SIG.Gen(1λ), send “failInvalidKey” and return.
03 Send (“addPayment”, pka) to S.
04 Call LSIG.Freeze(pka, amt) and receive m in return.
05 If m = (“nofunds”, pka, amt), send “failNoFunds” and return.
06 Send (“addPaymentFreeze”, pka) to S and receive m1 in return.
07 If m1 = “abort”, send “fail” and return.
08 If the message m1 is not yet received after T clock cycles, call LSIG.Unfreeze(pka, amt), send “fail” and return.
09 Call LSIG.Unfreeze(pkW, amt).
10 Append (Pi, pka, pkb) to Pay.
Interface ChangePayment(pka, pkb, pkc), called by S:
01 Search for entry (Pi, pka, pkb) in Pay. If no such entry is found, send “fail” and return.
02 If party Pi is not corrupted, send “fail” and return.
03 Replace the entry (Pi, pka, pkb) in Pay with (Pi, pka, pkc).
Interface GetPayment(pkb), called by Pi:
01 Send (“getPayment”, Pi, pkb) to S.
02 If (Pi, pkb) is not in Reg, send “failNotRegistered” and return.
03 If there is no entry of the form (Pj, pka, pkb) in Pay, send “failNoPayment” and return.
04 Remove the ﬁrst entry of this form (Pj, pka, pkb) from Pay and (Pi, pkb) from Reg.
05 Send (“gotPayment”, Pi, pkb) to S.
06 Call LSIG.Unfreeze(pkb, amt).
Figure 3. Ideal functionality Fux that models an unlinkable exchange.
W(skBS, skW)
Pi(pkb, pkBS)
if sn ∈DSpend : abort
sn, pkb
sn ←$ {0, 1}λ
if pkb ∈Reg : abort
DSpend := DSpend ∪{sn}
Reg := Reg ∪{pkb}
Fs.OpenSh(T, pkW, P, amt, skW)
Receive ( ¯
pkr,W, ¯
pkr,P, ¯skr,W) from Fs
Receive ( ¯
pkr,W, ¯
pkr,P, ¯skr,P) from Fs
txr := ( ¯
pkr,W, ¯
pkr,P, pkb, amt)
txr := ( ¯
pkr,W, ¯
pkr,P, pkb, amt)
rpar := (pkBS, ¯
pkr,W, txr, sn)
rpar := (pkBS, ¯
pkr,W, txr, sn)
prom ←Promise(rpar, skBS, ¯skr,W)
prom
b := VerPromise(rpar, prom)
if b = 0 : abort
Figure 4. Overview of the sub-protocol Register of protocol Sweep-UC. The protocol is run between the sweeper W and a party Pi.
3837
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 22:14:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Pi(ska, pkBS)
W(skBS, pkBS)
(bsm1, St) ←BS.U1(pkBS, sn)
bsm1
Fs.OpenSh(T, pka, W, amt, ska)
Receive ( ¯
pkl,P, ¯
pkl,W, ¯skl,P) from Fs
Receive ( ¯
pkl,P, ¯
pkl,W, ¯skl,W) from Fs
txl := ( ¯
pkl,P, ¯
pkl,W, pkW, amt)
txl := ( ¯
pkl,P, ¯
pkl,W, pkW, amt)
xpar := (pkBS, bsm1, ¯
pkl,P, ¯
pkl,W, txl)
xpar := (pkBS, bsm1, ¯
pkl,P, ¯
pkl,W, txl)
xm1
(xm1, St) ←Setup(xpar, skBS, ¯skl,W)
xm2 ←Buy(xpar, ¯skl,P, xm1)
xm2
σl,P := Sell(St, xm2)
σl,W ←SIG.Sig( ¯skl,W, txl)
Receive (σl,P, σl,W) from Fs
Fs.CloseSh( ¯
pkl,P, ¯
pkl,W, pkW, amt, σl,P, σl,W)
bsm2 := Get(xpar, xm1, xm2, σl,P, σl,W)
σBS ←BS.U2(St, bsm2)
Figure 5. Overview of the sub-protocol AddPayment of protocol Sweep-UC. The protocol is run between the sweeper W and a party Pi.
W(skBS, pkBS)
Pi(pkb, pkBS)
σr,W ←Redeem(rpar, prom, σBS)
σr,P ←SIG.Sig( ¯skr,P, txr)
Receive (σr,W, σr,P) from Fs
Fs.CloseSh( ¯
pkr,W, ¯
pkr,P, pkb, amt, σr,W, σr,P)
Reg := Reg \ pkb
Figure 6. Overview of the sub-protocol GetPayment of protocol Sweep-UC. The protocol is run between the sweeper W and a party Pi.
W(skBS, skW)
Pi(ska, pkBS)
Pi(pkb, pkBS)
pkb, sn
Redeem Protocol
prom
Verify
AddPayment
Fig. 5
Register
Fig. 4
bsm1
Exchange Protocol
xm1
xm2
bsm2
coins
bsm2 ⇝σBS
GetPayment
Fig. 6
σBS
coins
Figure 7. Overview of Sweep-UC, run between the sweeper W and a party Pi. The gray area stands for an anonymous channel.
3838
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 22:14:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Appendix A.
Meta-Review
A.1. Summary
This paper studies the problem of coin swapping in a
privacy-preserving manner. It presents two sub-protocols:
1) the exchange and 2) redeem protocols. The protocol
achieves UC security without relying on general-purpose
two-party computation and is universally compatible with
both adaptor and unique signatures.
A.2. Scientiﬁc Contributions
• Addresses a Long-Known Issue
• Provides a Valuable Step Forward in an Established Field
A.3. Reasons for Acceptance
1) This paper presents an approach building on previous
work that removes reliance on HTLCs (although still
requires timelock scripts), provides privacy to users,
and provides support for cryptocurrencies using unique
signatures.
2) The approach is comparatively better than some of the
existing schemes as referenced by the authors.
3) The paper is well organized and, for the most part,
presents essential ideas clearly. Furthermore, the security
models and protocols are properly explained.
A.4. Noteworthy Concerns
1) The paper discusses high on-chain costs as a limitation of
previous approaches but does not evaluate how Sweep-
UC compares to previous protocols in regard to on-chain
costs.
2) The experimental results presented in the paper are based
on simulations. While this approach has its merits, it may
not accurately reﬂect the performance in real-world im-
plementations. It would be beneﬁcial to see results from
a real-world implementation or at least a discussion on
how the simulated results might translate to a real-world
scenario. In line with that, also clarify the compatibility
of Sweep-UC with popular blockchains including the
discussion of how much change is required to use in
for those networks.
Appendix B.
Response to the Meta-Review
We thank the reviewers of IEEE S&P 2024 for their
valuable feedback, comments, and suggestions. We would
like to respond to the two concerns raised in the meta-
review:
1) As discussed in the paper, the on-chain costs are compa-
rable to A2L [14] and A2L+ [26], which are state of the
art. How to give a more concrete estimation of the on-
chain costs is not clear, as fees for transaction depend on
the concrete currency at hand and vary continuously over
time. For example, both works A2L [14] and A2L+ [26]
also do not give concrete numbers for on-chain costs.
2) We think a full-scale real-world implementation is be-
yond the scope of this paper, which is already quite
long. However, we are happy to consider this direction
for future work.
3839
Authorized licensed use limited to: IEEE Xplore. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 22:14:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

